ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u1	We begin with Mr Dallemagne's question on the dramatic situation of children in the refugee crisis. This is how those who are on time are rewarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin my speech by pointing out a few figures that clearly show the scale of the current disaster and demonstrate that children are the main victims of it. In 2015, more than 90,000 separated and unaccompanied children were registered or referred to as asylum seekers in Europe. According to UNICEF, the proportion of minors has only increased in recent months. Women and children now account for almost two thirds of refugees arriving in Europe (60% currently compared to 27% in September). Of the 62,200 migrants and refugees who entered Europe by Greece last January, some 20,000 were unaccompanied minors, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM). Children now constitute more than a third of the migrants who attempt the dangerous crossing through the Turkish Sea in Greece, says UNICEF. This situation has particularly dramatic consequences since, according to IOM, 60 of the 272 migrants who died in the Aegean Sea last January were children and since September, on average, two miners die every day in the eastern Mediterranean trying to reach Europe. However, their ordeal unfortunately does not end when they reach European soil. Europol estimated that more than 10,000 unaccompanied migrant children had disappeared in Europe in the past 24 months. More and more migrant children therefore arrive in Europe, sometimes alone, sometimes separated from their families along the way. Having fled the war and suffered unimaginable trauma, they may then be exposed again on European soil to violence, exploitation and possible trafficking. Minister, in the face of this humanitarian disaster, my questions are quite simple. What initiatives are you taking to help these children? Have you increased or reoriented our humanitarian aid budgets to respond to this ever-increasing emergency situation, as UNICEF, UNHCR and IOM recall? Can you give me details of the amounts provided by Belgium, both directly and indirectly? In the case of indirect aid, which agencies do we support? Does the aid thus granted benefit the victims whom we wish to help (in this case, refugee children throughout their journey, both in Europe and outside its borders)? Does Belgium support the establishment of these "blue points" to which UNICEF refers and, if so, in what way? What concrete and rapid response do Belgium and the European Union intend to give to the Unicef's call for a European emergency plan for the protection of unaccompanied minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u3	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, like you, I am particularly touched by the very often tragic situation of migrant children and the scale of the disaster. As you know, the rights of the child are, together with human rights, a priority of development cooperation. Our humanitarian assistance is aimed at meeting the needs of the most vulnerable, and as such, children are the main beneficiaries. However, the development cooperation budget, and therefore humanitarian aid, is intended for developing countries. The humanitarian aid budget is therefore not reoriented towards responding to the migrant crisis in Europe. On the other hand, the humanitarian aid budget is used to respond to the Syrian crisis in Syria, and naturally in neighbouring countries. This year, around €50 million is earmarked for programmes in Syria, including for internally displaced persons, and for programmes for refugees in neighbouring countries. Children clearly constitute the majority of beneficiaries. Belgium, however, provides indirect aid. Indeed, the organisations you cite (Unicef, UNHCR, ICRC, IOM) are involved in responding to the needs of refugee and migrant children, including in Europe. These four organizations are partners in our development cooperation or in our humanitarian aid and, as such, they receive contributions for their general resources. As you know, core financing is the principle that we often use in Belgium. These contributions amount to €17 million for Unicef, €7.5 million for UNHCR, €4 million for ICRC and €3 million for IOM. These amounts enable organizations to carry out their actions on the ground. Children are at the heart of their programs. Directly, we are providing €4.5 million in funding to UNICEF, with which the organization can continue its activities to monitor clear human rights violations during armed conflicts. Belgium is already financing this highly appreciated programme for the third time. UNICEF has been responsible for the implementation of this programme in accordance with Security Council resolutions 1612 of 2005, 1882 of 2009 and 1998 of 2011. In addition to monitoring activities, UNICEF also assists countries in developing action plans and making them operational. Syria and neighbouring countries (Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria and Somalia) are included in its interventions. Within the European framework, Belgium is making a bilateral contribution of EUR 10 million to the Emergency Trust Fund for stability and combating the root causes of irregular migration and the phenomenon of displaced persons in Africa. While supporting the Fund's four areas of intervention, Belgium will particularly support projects that fall within the political priorities of its cooperation, including the rights-based approach, including respect for the rights of migrants, unaccompanied minors and the management of migration, including the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. In addition, the European Union is adopting an emergency aid instrument to be used within it to respond more quickly and in a more targeted way to major crises and to help Member States cope with the influx of large numbers of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understood the aid package for Syria and the surrounding countries. You say that there is currently no specific project for children throughout their journey to Europe and Europe. Personally, I hear the Unicef's alarm signal. This is a new element in the evolution of this problem. In the beginning, men were mostly seen coming. Today, we still see a lot of MENA. I invite you to pay more attention to this request of Unicef by taking urgent measures, including the establishment of some 20 "Blue Points" which, throughout the journey of these unaccompanied children, offer them protection and assistance. It is important to be vigilant about this problem and the exploitation to which they can be subjected in Europe, not to mention the disappearance of many of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u5	Minister, your initiative has recently involved 40 companies to discuss how they can contribute to the efforts of the SDGs. As you have already answered some of my prepared questions at the previous committee meeting, I will not repeat them all. Which specific SDGs will be dealt with thanks to cooperation with the invited companies? You indicated that you had been with a number of Belgian companies. Were there also subsidiaries of companies such as IKEA and Atlas Copco, which already cooperate in their parent country in this way? If so, did they have any ideas about this? You had to admit last time that the participants in the consultation looked at each other in the first half of the hour asking why they had been called together and what they could do. So it would have been a good idea to invite subsidiaries, because I think you could have learned something from that. Do you have plans for possible cooperation with similar initiatives from other countries? How do you ensure complementarity with the achievements of the SDGs in our country, given the global agenda of the SDGs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u6	To clarify, I do not think that the two parties to the consultation looked at each other in the first half hour. Especially the companies struggled with the question of why the invitation came, I was a little more convinced that cooperation makes sense. What specific SDGs will be dealt with depends very much on the core business of individual companies. I think that each company will be able to decide for itself which domains can be most used. Sixteen SDGs on the 17th is an overarching objective and the role of partnerships on the one hand and the role of partnerships on the other are actually present in every economic activity. So we are looking more towards the participating companies, which, on the basis of their activities, have to decide where they think they can make the biggest difference. What further steps will be taken now? After the first meeting, we are now gathering information together with them. We need to find out who the right contacts are to intensify the consultation so that we can better understand what their wishes are. The intention would be to launch a kind of partnership before the summer. Here's what I can tell you about the subsidiaries. A first selection was made on the basis of our posts abroad. We have asked which companies are currently operating in the developing world. For the time being, we have focused on Belgian companies, but nothing excludes inviting companies with a significant activity on Belgian territory. Let me give you an example. There was someone present from GSK. This is not strictly a Belgian company, but all their vaccine business takes place in Belgium. I therefore believe that we can be a little more flexible in this area. I do believe it should be about a significant activity in our country. I come to initiatives from other countries. As I said last time, there is something similar in the Netherlands and Sweden. I admit that's what inspired us. I think we can find each other in that, but first we have to do our own homework. Afterwards, we can then explore how cooperation can be achieved. After all, you asked me how I would ensure complementarity in my own country. I believe that SDGs are a global item on the agenda. There is also a home country and a foreign component. Minister Marghem is responsible for the homeland component. I believe that it is the role of the Council of Ministers to keep an adequate eye on where complementarity can be achieved and where it can possibly be strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We naturally welcome the initiative, because we also see many opportunities for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u8	Mr Minister, once again, following your presence in Davos, you have dropped into an interview that you are thinking about Humanitarian Impact Bonds and working with the International Red Cross for that purpose. You also gave a number of answers on this matter in committee last time. However, I have further questions. In addition to the International Red Cross, were other organisations, specialising in humanitarian interventions, involved in the initiative? If so, why were they involved? If no, why didn't that happen? Have private players shown any interest? Can a public undertaking, such as BIO, act as a pre-finance? Is that desirable, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u9	Ms Bellens, in the run-up to the World Humanitarian Summit, which will take place in Istanbul in May 2016, EU Commissioner Georgieva presented a report entitled "Too important to fail "addressing the humanitarian financing gap." In the report, she launched the idea of social impact bonds to close the financial gap that currently exists for humanitarian funding. The social impact bonds are well known and have already been used in our country. That was not yet the case for the humanitarian impact bonds. Following that report, the International Committee of the Red Cross has worked on the application of the social impact bonds for humanitarian activities. I have indeed announced, together with Peter Maurer, the president of the ICRC in Davos, that Belgium, on a proposal from the ICRC, wants to contribute to the creation and launch of the very first humanitarian impact bond. Humanitarian aid can be used to allocate projects and programmes to humanitarian organisations. The International Committee of the Red Cross is an absolutely globally valued and reliable partner for humanitarian aid. I very much welcome the fact that the Committee is open to this form of innovative solutions that can broaden the donor base, but will also question their own functioning. It will, if necessary, focus its own work much more on consistency of results than is the case today. I'm going to give you more details about the operation now. This is a form of humanitarian financing, whereby social investors pre-finance a pre-agreed result. The government, other donors and even private outcome funders pay back after delivery of the results, which are evaluated by an external evaluator, the social investors. They also pay a risk premium. Where's the innovation? First of all, the outcome funders or donors - Belgium is in the situation of a donor - pay only for results. This transforms the way projects are financed in a radical way. The risk of non-implementation is externalised and lies with social investors. We're out there looking for value for money. The operator, here the ICRC, also has what is called in the jargon skin in the game. In case of partial or non-execution, they shall pay with it. This also brings with it a whole mentality change for the operator. They are going to look at their consistency with results. That's relatively innovative. The operator must pay a contribution himself in the absence of results. That is a completely different way of financing than today. The outcome funders should not put the money on the table in advance, but pay after the end of the project. That is also different from the M.O. today. Today, however, we are doing pre-financing. The evaluation shall be carried out by an independent and external agency. If efficiency gains are made, will the resources be released from the existing budget? At present, the project is still in a research phase. We said that we would get on the plane in principle. We hope to be able to share the results of the research phase in the coming months. Should there be efficiency gains, will the resources remain in development cooperation? Yeah, I think this is an essential element. The search for private investors is the task of an intermediary organisation. It's not us that should attract private investors. The ICRC has selected a partner for this purpose. The application and structuring of a humanitarian impact bond works that way. An organizing entity seeks out the different financiers and pre-financers. When can Parliament have documents? I will make an information note available as soon as we have received the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u10	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the World Bank has sometimes been accused of aggravating the lot of local people by neglecting the social and environmental aspects of its investment projects. One example is often cited: between 1981 and 1983, the Bank granted five loans of $457 million for the construction of 1,500 kilometres of roads in Brazil. The project led to a massive influx of settlers in the middle of the Amazonian forest, intensive deforestation and serious social conflicts with indigenous communities. This example was recently reported at a meeting in Brussels. This is why the Bank introduced so-called safeguard policies in the 1980s to ensure that its projects comply with social and environmental clauses. However, despite these policies, NGOs have reported cases of forced evictions of citizens in Ethiopia, Kenya or Malaysia to meet the needs of World Bank-funded projects. Indigenous communities in Nepal accused the Bank of financing the construction of roads that would cut their historic sites in half. Moreover, these 30-year-old rules do not take into account contemporary issues, such as climate change. This is why the Bank wanted to adapt these rules. From 25 to 27 January, the World Bank held the final consultation phase on its new environmental and social framework in Brussels with UN agencies, other development banks, NGOs and academics. In these discussions, the Bank has been surprisingly obstinate in its rejection of making respect for human rights the operational element of its safeguard policies, which has rightly led to the misunderstanding of civil society, the academic world and even UN special rapporteurs. However, we know that the link between development and respect for human rights is now clear. The SDGs are proof of this. From a legal point of view, all 188 Member States of the World Bank have already signed up to a human rights treaty. Mr Minister, one of the executive directors, and in this capacity a member of the board of directors, is Belgian; we can be very pleased with that. Since our country is therefore one of the 26 most influential countries in the Bank, how do you explain that our constant positions – I recognise it – in favour of the inclusion of human rights in safeguard policies were not ultimately followed by this Council? In your view, does the fact that under diplomatic agreements the Belgian Executive Director in question also represents the political interests of Belarus and Turkey, the least sensitive country in the field of human rights, explain this rather disappointing political result? Does the cascade representation not muzzle our representation and thus ultimately our positioning? How do you envisage the next steps to ensure that these World Bank safeguard policies finally contain provisions for respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u11	Mr Hellings, first of all, it is important to note that it is the representative of the FPS Finance appointed by the Minister of Finance who, under a royal decree dated 12 November 2001, was given the sole mandate to represent Belgium on the board of directors of the Bretton Woods institutions. I would like to make the following remarks on the basis of your questions. It should be borne in mind that the place of Europe in general, and of Belgium in particular, unfortunately diminishes in the board of directors of the Bretton Woods institutions, which reduces our ability to universalize our values. As director of the electoral district, the representative of Belgium tries to reach a consensus between the members with positions that can be defended by the whole electoral district. However, our constituency has so far consistently maintained a clear position on safeguards and called for special attention to the environmental and social aspects in the evaluation of the two specific programmes and projects as well as the broader policy of the World Bank. It is true that the World Bank's corporate culture tends to avoid conflicts with client countries. This is likely the reason why, during the discussions in Brussels at the end of January 2016, the Bank refused to make respect for human rights the operational element of its safeguard policies. It follows from all of the above that if democratic principles and, in particular, human rights are to be seen better respected, emerging countries, technical and financial partners, the private sector should play a central role in growth, employment and development, and NGOs should collaborate more intensively to ensure that financial flows are used effectively and that their impact is increased. The debate on safeguards has not yet been concluded. As in the past and during the consultation in Brussels you mentioned, Belgium continues to call for a reference to human rights and the strengthening of social and environmental standards in the safeguards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u12	Minister, you are indeed right. Unfortunately, he is a representative of the FPS Finance and not a representative of your administration, Cooperation, which represents Belgium in the World Bank. That's unfortunate. That is the meaning of a question (No 9856) which I will ask you a moment ago. We will return to that opportunity. In any case, clearly, the Greens regret it. It is on your budget that the World Bank is financed. It would therefore be normal for your representative to be at the World Bank. We'll get back to it. The World Bank is clearly a unique and unique global multilateral tool. It would therefore be normal for the tool par excellence of development at the global level to be able to achieve development objectives and therefore incorporate social, environmental and, above all, human rights clauses. This is obviously not the case. The Brussels meeting was an undeniable political opportunity. It's a missed opportunity. I haven't heard in what direction you're planning to go. I am sure of your ambitions and convictions in this area. The problem is that today, because of our dependence on Belarus and Turkey, we do not have the means to defend a state-of-the-art position. That's the question I asked you. What is still the meaning of functioning in this way by depending on countries that do not respect human rights if we are to achieve a goal of including humanitarian, social and environmental criteria in the World Bank? I think you need to review your copy and you need to depend on countries other than these problematic countries. This is what muzzles Belgium's speech in this important debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u13	Minister, a new Unicef report once again raises the alarm about the widespread practice of genital mutilation. The report was presented as part of the international day of zero tolerance against female genital mutilation. Although there were already strong indications, new research reveals that also in Indonesia genital mutilation is common. As a result, not 120 million but 200 million women and girls worldwide would have undergone these horrific practices. Indonesia also makes it clear that genital mutilation is not necessarily an African, but a global problem, where practices may vary from country to country. Notwithstanding, they very often result in immense and unnecessary suffering of girls. The number of cases of genital mutilation is falling in certain countries, such as Egypt. However, the global population growth nominally reverses that percentage decline, according to Unicef's report. In our partner countries, too, genital mutilation remains a major problem, for example, Unicef's latest figures on the number of girls and women affected: Benin 9 %, Burkina Faso 76 %, Guinea 97 %, Mali 89 %, Niger 2 %, Uganda 1 % and Senegal 25 %. You have announced that you want to intensify the fight against genital mutilation in your policy. Can you give us any explanation? Unicef does not have global statistics for all our partner countries. Can you give an indication of the problems you consider to be in Burundi and Congo, but also Mozambique, the Palestinian region, Rwanda and Tanzania? Are there countries that probably also know many victims of genital mutilation? Although girls and women are victims, men are also an important element to make genital mutilation disappear. What role do you see for men in this problem and how can they be part of the solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u14	Mr President, the fight against genital mutilation is a matter of respect for human dignity and human rights in general. It is therefore a priority within the meaning of the Law on Development Cooperation, as well as women's health and sexual reproductive rights. The government has reaffirmed this priority by considering the rights approach as one of the two central axes of Belgian development policy. Genital mutilation is an attack on the physical integrity and consequently the sexual rights of women and girls they undergo. The problem is addressed in the context of promoting health and sexual and reproductive rights. In this respect, Belgian Development Cooperation mainly operates through its multilateral partners whose mandate is recognised worldwide and is therefore generally accepted by the partner countries. Unicef, the United Nations Population Fund, the World Health Organisation and UN Women are our main partners in this area and have a very valuable comparative advantage to promote political dialogue with the governments of our partner countries. After all, most partner countries are also members of these institutions. Last year these organisations were re-selected as partner organisations of Belgian Development Cooperation and measures were taken to strengthen these partnerships. However, in the new partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation, Burkina Faso and Guinea-Conakry, the number of women undergoing genital mutilation is particularly high: 97% in Guinea-Conakry and 76 percent in Burkina Faso. In 2016, funding was reserved by UNFPA's health and sexual and reproductive rights programmes in these countries: EUR 5 million for Guinea-Conakry and EUR 3.4 million for Burkina Faso. The fight against female genital mutilation will be part of the programmes currently being prepared. The Unicef report focuses on the 29 countries where the problem of genital mutilation is most widespread. The UNFPA report adds Tanzania and indicates that 7% of girls between 15 and 19 years of age are the victims of this practice. On a regular basis, research on genital mutilation is carried out in the countries most affected by this practice. As regards partner countries Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Morocco, Mozambique, Palestine and Rwanda, where this practice is applied only marginally, there has been no recent investigation and no recent data are available. Genital mutilation of women is often regarded as a woman's cause, but this practice actually concerns all members of the community. Men can also play an active role in the abolition of these practices. On 5 February, several NGOs, including GAMS Belgium, Forward UK, the Dutch foundation HIMILO and the ITM launched the Men speak out campaign, which is funded by the European Commission. The aim of the campaign is to involve men in the fight against genital mutilation in order to speed up the disappearance of this practice in Europe and, in the event of enlargement, in the countries of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Some of the figures from new partner countries are unheard of. There's still a lot of work to be done. I also agree that men do indeed play an important, active role in the elimination of genital mutilation. It is a good initiative that has been taken, but we will still have to make a great deal of effort in the years to come and this practice will not be removed so easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u16	Questions Nos 9654 and 9657 by Mr Van Hoof have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u17	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as you said earlier, under a royal decree of 12 November 2001 – as I have just heard – it is up to the FPS Finances to represent Belgium at the World Bank. In an opinion delivered to you on 19 January, the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development recommended the following development: "The development dimension being at the heart of the Bank's work, a transfer of power to (...) development cooperation could not only improve the coherence of Belgian policy, but also make the Bank more effective in relation to its objectives. This transfer is also justified by the fact that Belgian financing from the World Bank is included in the budget of Development Cooperation." That is, to say the least, a transparent opinion. Hence, my four questions. 1. How do you plan to respond to this interesting recommendation, from a clear perspective of coherence? Is it expected that the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) will eventually become the World Bank's interlocutor to represent Belgium's interests? 2. In the absence of, or pending, this transfer of authority, how do you envisage increased DGD involvement in the follow-up of the World Bank's bodies and policies? 3. How will you change the role of DGD in this process? How will you make collaboration between your services and the FPS Finance more systematic and formal? In the context of my previous question, we saw that developing a point of view of cooperation before developing a financial point of view was essential for achieving human development objectives. 4. Could you please tell me which agreements or protocols currently lay down the conditions for cooperation between these two bodies? You have already answered this question in your previous answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion you are referring to was sent to me in electronic form on 1 February and then in official form. I have transferred this opinion to my competent colleague, the Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt, with a view to preparing a consolidated reaction. The opinion will first be analysed in its entirety by our respective departments in order to react in depth. The responsibility for relations between Belgium and the World Bank lies with the Minister of Finance and is defined by royal decree. However, DGD is already playing a very important role in cooperation with the World Bank, both in terms of budgetary contributions and in terms of substance. In terms of budgetary monitoring, a decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 October 2003 decided to transfer all federal ministers' budgets related to development to a single horizontal budget line managed by the DGD. This means, among other things, that the mandatory contributions to the international financial institutions that had previously been managed by the FPS Finances are being monitored jointly with the DGD since then. In terms of substantive follow-up, this government decision has also strengthened cooperation between Finance and DGD. This is done: - first, through the participation since 2004 of the Minister for Development Cooperation in the Spring Meetings and Annual Meetings of the World Bank and IMF; - second, through the informal participation of DGD in the round of negotiations for the replenishment of the resources of the International Development Association; - thirdly through regular informal meetings between Finance, DGD and the Directorate-General for Multilateral Affairs and Globalization (DGM) in Foreign Affairs; - and finally fourthly by the appointment, since December 2012, of a development adviser in the office of the director of the Belgian constituency at the World Bank. This officer is seconded from DGD. In addition, a member of the Belgian Embassy in Washington is specifically responsible for development issues and therefore also for relations with the World Bank. This enhanced cooperation has provided better coordination and a more coherent Belgian policy leading to Belgian positions that take into account both the priorities of Finance and the objectives of Belgian Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u19	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I am reassured about the articulation and follow-up that you said were joint between FPS Finance and DGD. There is a way of working that may work for the definition of policy. However, the case I have previously submitted to you, of modifying, at a meeting here in Brussels, the development objectives by introducing safeguard clauses that take account of human rights, is a question of final cut. Who makes the final decision? He's a representative of FPS Finance. That is the problem. I strongly encourage you to review the Royal Decree which sets out the collaboration between DGD and SPF Finance to give the final cut to the Cooperation which, after all, finances the World Bank and which, as such, should be able to have a representative in the World Bank. In order to achieve the objectives I mentioned in my previous question to take account of human, social and environmental developments, it is up to the Cooperation to be in the cockpit of the World Bank. Give him the means to perform this role!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on 14 March, a law was passed that instructed the Federal Planning Office to take into account, in addition to the traditional GDP index, figures that take into account the quality of life, human development, social progress and sustainability of our economy. In addition, 64 indicators were added as a complement to GDP. The latest report by the Planning Bureau has brought this task to a successful conclusion, so that our country now has a wide range of data that takes welfare and prosperity into account. The challenge with regard to the SDGs is just to find the best relationship between prosperity and well-being, between economic growth and sustainable development and to implement a global plan that envisages sustainable, inclusive growth. Initiatives such as the above-mentioned law and the set of indicators can therefore play a major role in the SDG agenda. I have the following questions, Minister. How was the SDG objectives taken into account in the development of the indicator set? How has it been developed by the Federal Planning Office? Is this set of indicators compatible with the framework of the SDGs, which nevertheless has a global approach, including for the interior? Do your services use the Plan Office's set of indicators in the elaboration of interventions and governmental cooperation? How do your services work with the services of your colleague, Minister Marghem, responsible for Sustainable Development, in the area of SDG efforts? What action will you take if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, I note that in paragraph 48, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development reaffirms the commitment of the UN Member States to developing broad instruments for measuring progress, in addition to the GDP measure. In addition, the SDG 17 target 19 talks about building on existing initiatives to develop such wide measuring instruments, with the 2030 horizon. At first glance, the indicators set out in the Law of 14 March 2014 appear to be part of those existing initiatives. I'll leave it to the custody minister of the Federal Planning Office to explain to you how that might happen. For governmental cooperation, first of all, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the implementation of the SDGs are primarily the responsibility of our partner countries. It is the responsibility of each specific partner country to include welfare indicators in their own SDG follow-up or in government cooperation with Belgium. Minister Marghem and myself are part of the Interministerial Committee on Sustainable Development which will examine the implementation of the SDG. The division of tasks, which was elaborated in the government decision of 24 July 2015, identified Minister Marghem as the final responsible for coordinating the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Belgium. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs and I myself will be responsible for external communication, preparation of EU positions and the integration of the 2030 Agenda into Belgian Development Cooperation in our respective areas of competence. However, there are obviously interfaces between the internal and external shutters. It should therefore be noted that the multilateral coordination meetings, organised within the Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Office on sustainable development, also involve representatives of regional administrations for sustainable development, as well as representatives of the Foreign Affairs and Development Administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u23	Minister, according to the World Health Organisation, the Zika virus is a threat to global public health. Although the virus is originally African, it has been able to penetrate into South America. Due to the lack of experience with the virus on site, it has taken a relatively long time to begin to suspect that the disease may be related to the many cases of microcephalus in Brazil. Zika was discovered in 1947, in the renowned Uganda Virus Research Institute. Uganda has a long and excellent reputation for fighting infectious diseases. For example, thanks to a well-expanded monitoring system, Ebola and the Marburg outbreak in 2012, it was immediately able to smother and reduce the number of victims. This contrasts greatly with the 10 000 deaths caused by the Ebola crisis in West Africa. Uganda is a bilateral partner country in our development cooperation. What support will Belgium's UVRI receive in the framework of bilateral partnership? Does anything change that from 2017? What cooperation does there exist with similar Belgian institutions, such as the ITM? What are the ways of supporting or encouraging South-South cooperation as a third country? What is the government's position on this? How does our country support or encourage South-South cooperation? What conditions are attached to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u24	Government cooperation with Uganda does not provide for support for the Uganda Virus Research Institute. The Zika virus was discussed at the meeting of the Health donor group in Kampala. The WHO has stated that no Zika virus has been reported in Uganda at the moment. In the past, the Institute of Tropical Medicine from Antwerp has had a short ad hoc collaboration with the UVRI. At present, the ITM has no cooperation with the UVRI. It's not planned for the next few years either. In general, ITM interventions linked to research focus on capacity enhancement and public health. As Zika does not pose a health problem in Uganda, it is not eligible for the intervention domain of development cooperation in Uganda. Brazil is no longer part of the concentration countries of the Belgian non-governmental cooperation since 2017. This is an autonomous decision of the actors of non-governmental cooperation, including the ITM. However, we keep a free margin which they can use outside the concentration countries if they wish, insofar as intervention is developmental. In the context of intergovernmental cooperation, South-South cooperation, or trilateral cooperation, is only possible if the cooperation programme with a partner country provides for a budget in favour of other partner countries in Belgian Development Cooperation. The cooperation with Morocco provides for a fund for the transfer of know-how to other partner countries of Belgium in Sub-Saharan Africa. Under this Fund, consignments from Moroccan experts to other partner countries, as well as internships and study trips from partner country leaders in Sub-Saharan Africa to Morocco, may take place. Belgium supports international networks and exchanges between health institutions in the South. For example, a partner of the ITM in Uganda, the Makare College of Health Sciences, works with institutions such as the University of Gulu and the Mbarara Campus of Uganda Martyrs, the University of Lubumbashi in the DRC, the University of Western Cape in South Africa and the Institute of Public Health in Bangalore in India.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u25	Minister, if I understand correctly, is South-South support only possible if both countries are part of Belgium's partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u26	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the Finexpo credit agency is an interdepartmental committee set up in 1997, whose primary objective is to export companies abroad. It also supports development cooperation. On the basis of calls for tenders or dossiers, Finexpo supports Belgian companies with tied aid in the countries eligible under the OECD arrangement. In 2011, the Special Reviewer of Belgian Cooperation presented a series of recommendations aimed at better integrating development into the actions supported by this Committee. It needed to have more consistent guidelines for better evaluation of the projects selected upstream, but also downstream, once the projects were completed. Minister, what do you intend to do to improve the development friendly logic of the export credit agency Finexpo? Should the amounts allocated to Finexpo be accounted for as official development assistance (ODA)?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u29	Ms Grovonius, following the report of the Special Evaluator, Finexpo has prepared a manual containing a mission statement, procedure and criteria for all Finexpo instruments. For concessional instruments, one of the criteria for approval is relevance to development. Only projects that have a positive impact on the country's development are taken into account. Within the Finexpo Committee also sits a representative of the Cooperation, who ensures this relevance. Since this report, Finexpo services have conducted an annual evaluation of projects in the field. In recent years, there have been assessment missions to Ghana, Vietnam and Kenya. There is also an annual evaluation of all ongoing projects through questionnaires sent to companies. Finexpo's concessional instruments, such as bonus payments with or without supplementary donations, donations and state-to-state loans, are accounted for in ODA. The trade instrument, including the stabilization of the interest rate for commercial projects, is not included in ODA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u30	Mr President, I give the floor to Mrs Bellens, because for the moment I do not have the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u31	Mrs. Bellens, can you start with your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u32	That is not a problem, Mr President. Minister, recently the government announced that it would contribute EUR 75 million to the fund set up at the international donor conference Supporting Syria and the Region in London. Above all, the money must be used to accommodate refugees from Syria in their own region in decent conditions. The fund has now received commitments of 10 billion from a variety of countries. My questions are as follows. When and how will the promised money actually be transferred? What agreements have been made with the partners on the timing of transferring the promised 10 billion to them? What budget does the amount of EUR 75 million that we would contribute come from? Does this affect other ongoing projects relating to the refugee problem? Which partners are working with, to manage and possibly spend the funds? Is our government's contribution earmarked? If so, what conditions are attached to this? How is the fund complementary to other efforts for the refugees of both Syria and Iraq?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u33	I now give the floor to Mrs Grovonius, who, I see, has a suspicious cooperation with the executive. [[Ms Grovonius asked the Minister to present her question in writing.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u34	Minister, the first humanitarian aid trucks finally entered on Monday 11 January in Madaya, a small Syrian city, besieged by the Damascus regime and its Lebanese Hezbollah allies since July 2015. The delivery of the joint United Nations convoy, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the Syrian Red Crescent lasted all night in the town without electricity. The arrival of aid loaded with some 40 trucks took place in a febrile atmosphere in this city of 40,000 inhabitants, according to the United Nations, of which almost half came from the nearby town of Zabadani, now in ruins, after having long been at the forefront of the revolt against President Bashar al-Assad. In this context, on 12 January, the United Nations launched a $7.73 billion appeal for humanitarian assistance to 22.5 million civilians living in Syria or refugees in neighbouring countries in 2016. Can you provide an update on the action and funds released by your department for this region in 2015 and those planned for 2016? Does Belgium intend to participate in the international community's effort to fill the $7.73 billion funding gap demanded by the United Nations? If so, how much? I imagine that these amounts have changed further since January 20, 2016, when this question was filed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at two Euro Summits on Turkey, something was adopted that now bears the name Refugee Facility Fund, whereby the European Member States commit themselves to releasing EUR 2 billion for the 2.6 million refugees in Turkey. Belgium promised to pay EUR 57.6 million into that fund. My questions are divided into three sets. Firstly, under what modalities will the Refugee Facility Fund work? What criteria will apply to the use of the money? What mechanisms are in place to ensure transparency in the allocation of funds? How will it be ensured that funds are used directly for the benefit of refugees and host communities? How will it be ensured that European money is not used to facilitate pushbacks at the Turkish-Syrian border or, for example, to finance closed detention centres? What guarantees are there so that the money is not used to set up camps on the Syrian side of the border? Secondly, these questions concern Belgium's financial contribution to the Refugee Facility Fund. Has the contribution already been paid, in part or in full? What budget do these resources come from? Is this an annual contribution? Is this additional to what was promised at the London donor conference? How will Belgium monitor the use of these funds? Thirdly, has Turkey already made proposals for projects for which the Fund could be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u36	Colleagues, I decided in 2015 to commit just over €72 million in Belgian humanitarian aid to finance humanitarian organisations active in this crisis. Of these 72 million, approximately 45.16 million were liquidated in 2015. The following actions were financed over two years. For the period 2015 and 2016, here is the breakdown for Emergency Response Funds, to be split by two to obtain the amount per year: - Syria: 11.5 million; Lebanon: 11.5 million; Jordan: 10.5 million; - Turkey: 10.25 million; - UNICEF humanitarian fund for Syria: 10 million. Over a year: - Belgian Red Cross humanitarian project in Lebanon: EUR 844 288; - Handicap International humanitarian project in Syria: €800,000; - Rode Kruis Vlaanderen's humanitarian project in Syria: just over 1 million; - OCHA humanitarian information coordination, advocacy and management activities in Syria: 1.125 million; UNHCR activities for Syrian refugees in the regions: 3 million; WFP activities: 3 million; UNRWA activities for Palestinian refugees in Syria and the region: 1.5 million; - ICRC activities in Syria: 5 million; - ICRC activities in Lebanon: 2 million. At the London Conference of 4 February 2016, which was intended to ensure that financial commitments would be made in support of the humanitarian response to the Syrian crisis in 2016, Belgium committed €50 million in 2016 and €25 million in 2017 in liquidation. Overall, the conference yielded 11.3 billion dollars, of which 5.9 billion dollars for 2016 and 5.4 billion for the period 2017-2020. Loans totalling 40.8 billion were committed, mainly by international financial institutions. We must be careful, however, to understand the Belgian pledge done in London. This is not a contribution to a fund, as Mrs Bellens mentioned in her question, but a global amount of liquidation appropriations to be spent on the Syrian humanitarian crisis in 2015 and 2016. Need analysis is currently under way. A proposal of a mix of contributions and flexible funds, programmes and projects will be made by the humanitarian service. The aim of our humanitarian aid is not only to meet the needs of the Syrian crisis, but, in line with its strategy, to focus mainly on three regions: Palestine, the Great Lakes region and the Sahel region. We must not forget that a number of forgotten and complex crises in this region deserve special attention, including in the humanitarian field. In concrete terms, the Belgian contribution for the Facility for Refugees in Turkey has been set at around EUR 58 million. This amount will be claimed in four years. The amount for 2016 of EUR 17.4 million will be taken into account by an interdepartmental provision. For subsequent years, the decision has not yet been taken. At the first meeting of the Steering Committee of the Turkish Facility, it was said that the Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Service (ECHO) will transmit to the next Humanitarian Aid Committee a proposal of €90 million, to be committed by the end of May. A second €75 million tranche is expected to be released by the end of the summer. For the time being, a meeting of the Humanitarian Aid Committee has not yet been convened. Mr van der Maelen, first of all I would like to point out that there are still a number of things that are not quite clear about the Turkey facility. The last word has not yet been said, since the Turkish authorities will be talking again in a few days' time. [[So I have no choice but to give you some general answers.]] The normal criteria for managing European funds and the European instruments for intervention outside Europe aid will apply: transparency, the usual rules of follow-up, the rules on public procurement, etc. The usual rules applicable to the financial instruments of the European Union will also apply. There will be no direct funding from the Turkish State. Only national agencies of EU Member States, international organisations and NGOs will be funded on the basis of priorities and needs. The funds are allocated to interventions in Turkey and not in the other countries. The Belgian contribution to the Turkish Refugee Facility would amount to 58 million euros, payable over four years. For 2016 it would be EUR 17,5 million. To date, no financial contribution has been paid. It is not yet clear which budget the contributions will come from. Turkey has so far made no proposals for the use of these funds. Belgium has a seat on the committee which will monitor the use of the funds of the Turkey Facility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u37	Mrs Grovonius does not wish to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u38	Minister, after the meeting at the end of this week, I will return to the subject. You have already seen from the question that there is a certain suspicion of Turkey's behaviour in this regard. I have here a report from Amnesty International reporting some seriously injured people from the region around Azaz, north of Aleppo, who are still fighting, who are not allowed to cross the border. The medical infrastructure of Doctors Without Borders and of the Syrian government in this region is also being bombed and can no longer be used. For example, some people with long-term illness, such as cancer, who need radiation should not cross the border. According to Amnesty International's report, other severely or less severely injured people and children with shrapnel in their legs at the border were also refused. Secondly, there are even reports that the Turkish army is shooting at Syrians who want to cross the border. Thirdly and finally, the problem remains that thousands of people are stuck on the Syrian side of the border, where there will probably be further fighting in the coming weeks and months. However, I would ask that our representative in the fund draw the attention of the Turkish authorities to these three points. We need Turkish cooperation and we are prepared to pay for it, but then I think it is normal for Turkey to accept a number of basic human rules and that Europe, and I hope, among other things, that Belgium, is trying to make the Turks understand that this kind of case that Amnesty has accused is not going to drag on for too long, because public opinion in the West will respond to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u39	Minister, the first question concerns the drafting of a strategic note for the agriculture and food sovereignty sector. By its 2010 strategic note for the agriculture and food security sector, Belgium has embarked on a "transition process from self-subsistence agriculture to a human, professional and economically profitable family agriculture". All actors in civil society unanimously supported this note, especially given our country's commitment to sustainable agriculture and food security by setting the target of 15 per cent of official development assistance in 2015. Today it seems that you want to redefine this strategic note. Indeed, at the meeting of the Belgian Agriculture and Food Safety Platform (PASA) on 30 October 2015, a representative of your administration formalized this information. Having already had to observe the abolition of the Belgian Food Security Fund (FBSA), a new drafting work raises concerns about the reduction of the gains achieved in favour of an agro-ecological model in favour of a so-called "conventional" or industrial model of agriculture. Given these elements, Minister, can you confirm this commitment to amend the 2010 Strategic Note on Agriculture and Food Security? If so, what are the motivations put forward to favour the drafting of a new strategic note for these sectors? Is it a political will to reverse past achievements and to re-prioritise so-called "conventional" agriculture? Has an evaluation of the implementation of the previous note been conducted? If so, what are the conclusions? How will this new strategic note be developed? Is an inclusive and participatory process of relevant civil society actors guaranteed? Finally, what about the timing of this new note? My second question concerns the inclusion of the gender dimension in food security. Following the law of 19 March 2013 and the action of the Belgian Food Security Fund, my group would like our country to continue to make food security a priority at both budgetary and thematic level for all aspects of Belgian Cooperation for Direct and Indirect Bilateral and Multilateral Development. In this context, one of the major challenges for improving food security would be to strengthen women's rights and, above all, to implement them. Indeed, in developing countries, women's work is mainly devoted to food agriculture. They provide 60 to 80 per cent of family food production, and they also devote a great deal of their time to production processing or handicrafts. Yet, despite the importance of their function, women face many obstacles that undermine the well-being of their families and society in general. According to the United Nations, the agricultural yield of family farms could be increased by 20 to 30% if women had the same access to productive resources as men. It is therefore high time to take more action to recognize the status of women in agriculture and their involvement in decision-making processes. In your integrated cross-cutting food security policy, what is the importance given by your department to the gender dimension? What concrete initiatives are being taken within the framework of our cooperation to strengthen women's rights with regard to, inter alia, the issue of food security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u40	Ms Grovonius, each strategic note is normally renewed every five years, in accordance with international standards for the development of a public policy strategy. As the latest agriculture and food security strategy dates back to 2010, my administration is renewing the note. It does so taking into account scientific research on agriculture and food security over the past five years and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The process of revising the strategic note has just begun. I do not want to prejudge his conclusions. What I can already confirm is that the note will recognise the central role of sustainable and economically viable productive agriculture. Indeed, in order to meet the agricultural challenge, particularly in Africa, where the population will double in 25 years, we must replace subsistence agriculture with modern, productive agriculture. Such agriculture may be family or more industrial in size. The project sheet with an activity schedule on the renewal of the strategic note was adopted by the DGD Strategic Committee on 20 January 2016. The timetable provides for an evaluation of the 2010 strategy on the basis of focus group discussions on the weaknesses, opportunities and threats of this note. I plan an inclusive and participatory process for the drafting of the new note; a process open to civil society. Representatives of the Agriculture and Food Security Platform will be invited in the coming weeks to participate in a focus group discussion on the SWOT analysis of the 2010 note. My administration is also planning a field visit in May-June, probably to Benin. The Agriculture and Food Security Platform will be invited to make proposals for the programme of field visits. A first version of the new strategic note is scheduled for August. Consultations will resume in September and October. My administration plans to finalize this note in December for the agriculture and food security sectors. I share your view that gender mainstreaming, including the empowerment of women, is essential in the context of food security. My administration has just issued a new strategic note with an action plan on integrating this dimension into its daily work. Among the four priority areas are food security, access to natural resources and economic empowerment. This means that cooperation will continue to focus on this issue. The action plan accompanying the note should guide the actions of DGD members in their daily work. Please also note that the FAO (Food & Agriculture Organization of the United Nations), one of the fifteen multilateral cooperation partner organisations in Belgium, is developing an important programme entitled "Dimitra", which has been widely funded by our Cooperation. It establishes community listening clubs, including in Burundi, Niger and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and contributes to the empowerment of rural populations and women in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u41	Minister, the terms you use are not very clear. In any case, I have not heard any wish from you to maintain the gains that have been achieved in favour of more agro-ecological models. Unfortunately, I fear that the project of reorientation towards more conventional or industrial agricultural techniques will indeed be in the cartons. However, we know that the current pressure on basic production factors, including access to land and water, results in a real decline in soil productivity. Revitalizing more conventional agriculture in the current context is probably not the best initiative to take. In conclusion, I will quote a comment made by Olivier De Schutter in 2010, when he was the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to food. He said there was a need to adopt agro-ecological production methods, both to feed the world, to combat rural poverty and to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u42	Minister, international law is clear: Articles 53, 59 and 60 of the Fourth Geneva Convention prohibit not only the construction of settlements in occupied territories but also the demolition of humanitarian projects. Yet Israel is violating international law. Belgian projects are also threatened or have already been affected. Israel, for example, already demolished an electricity network built with Belgian development money in October 2014. The damage was estimated at EUR 55 000 and has not yet been reimbursed to my knowledge. A kindergarten in Al Aqaba, in the north of the West Bank, is also threatened with demolition. A playground was built there with Belgian money. Prime Minister, what does the Israeli Government's attitude towards EU development aid projects in the West Bank mean? Secondly, why have you not yet received the compensation for the damage to the electricity network? What efforts have you already made to demand that payment from Israel? Thirdly, what progress has been made with the development of a European plan on destruction and confiscation in zone C? Is a plan of action being developed to enable the European Union and the Member States to ask for compensation? Fourthly, what measures are being taken by the EU and our country to protect the kindergarten in Al Aqaba from destruction? Fifthly, what Belgian-funded projects are still in the West Bank today? Finally, you have already indicated that you will continue to invest. What future projects are you thinking of? What projects are planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u43	Madam President, Minister, in a joint communiqué with Foreign Minister Didier Reynders of 4 March 2016, you expressed your concern at the increase in the number of demolitions and confiscations of Palestinian structures in West Bank area C observed since the beginning of this year, including schools built by humanitarian organizations. On this point, I fully agree with you, since we share the same concerns. I was there a few days ago. The report made to us by OCHA is alarming. In recent months, the number of destructions has more than doubled compared to the number of "committed" destructions in 2015. The situation is therefore very alarming. You have wished to meet with the ambassador of Israel, Mrs Simona Frankel, to express your discontent, as Israel has in particular destroyed structures financed by the European Union and Belgium through the consortium Humanitarian support to contribute to the protection of Palestinians in the West bank from forcible transfer. You would have told the ambassador that these humanitarian projects were being carried out in accordance with international humanitarian law. Minister, can you give us a little debriefing of your meeting with the ambassador of Israel? You have indicated that you are going to contact a number of European partners to consider new approaches to claiming compensation for the damage suffered. Can you give us more information about this? What solutions do you prefer? Have you discussed with the ambassador of Israel the question of possible sanctions or reparations? Finally, you may have read in the press that the parliamentary mission of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), which I chaired, was not able to enter Gaza when the requests for authorizations had been made properly. Did you also discuss this with the ambassador? Otherwise, do you or Mr. Reynders intend to bring this fact to the attention of the Israeli authorities? Indeed, it does not seem normal for parliamentarians – European or non-European – or ministers to have access to a territory that does not belong to the authority that issues this type of authorisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u44	I am aware of the unfortunate figures. Indeed, the number of structures and projects destroyed or confiscated in zone C, including part financed by the European Union or by Member States, is very worrying and growing. Our position on the matter is very clear and was reiterated in the press release I published with my colleague Minister Didier Reynders of Foreign Affairs on 9 February. We call on the Israeli authorities to put an end to these destructions and to prevent further destruction or seizure. International humanitarian law must be respected. Local and international humanitarian organizations must have easy access to vulnerable population groups. On 2 March, a school was destroyed in Khirbet Samra. It had been co-financed by our country and the European Union through the consortium Humanitarian support to contribute to the protection of Palestinians in the West bank from forcible transfer. In September 2014, an electronic network built with Belgian development budgets was destroyed in Khirbet al-Tawil. On 9 March I summoned the Israeli ambassador to Belgium. I have protested against the destruction of projects financed by Belgium and the alarming increase in the number of destructions and seizures of Palestinian structures in zone C in the West Bank since the beginning of this year. I pointed out to Ambassador Frankel that the humanitarian interventions were carried out in accordance with international humanitarian law. I also reminded Ambassador Frankel of the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union of July 2015 and January 2016. The European Union confirms its opposition to Israeli colonization and to the destruction, confiscation, expulsion and forced relocation. Ambassador Frankel replied that she had no specific information on the school destroyed. It pointed out that in all cases, including for humanitarian situations, a licence should be requested from the Israeli authorities for infrastructure works in zone C. According to the Oslo agreements, the Israeli Government is responsible for zone C. Ambassador Frankel has thus reiterated the well-known position of her government, which is also to be expected. With regard to compensation, Belgium continues to address at European level the issue of damages to be paid by Israel in such cases. We are indeed keenly in favour of a joint European approach in this matter, since the destruction also involves projects from other Member States of the European Union and European projects. The subject is currently being discussed at European level. For further details on the European work on this subject, I would advise you to address my colleague Didier Reynders, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The destruction does not, of course, mean that our assistance in zone C will be stopped. I can confirm that Belgium will continue to invest in humanitarian assistance in zone C. One of the objectives of Belgian humanitarian aid in occupied Palestinian territory is to strengthen the resilience of vulnerable Palestinian communities in zone C of the West Bank against forced movements by providing humanitarian assistance. In 2015, a total contribution of €3.5 million from my humanitarian budget was earmarked for the protection of Palestinian communities in Area C. €5 million was disbursed in two annual tranches of €2.5 million in 2015 and 2016 to the Emergency Response Fund for the occupied Palestinian territories. As you know, the Palestinian territories are among the 14 partner countries of Belgian development policy. We focus on teaching and strengthening local authorities. Projects are also planned in Zone C of the Westbank in the governmental cooperation, in the implementation of the 2008-2011 and 2012-2015 cooperation programmes. These include building a few schools and supporting the Palestinian Authority in drawing up master plans for development. Mrs Grovonius, with regard to your question on access or refusal of access in the framework of an IPU mission (Inter-Parliamentary Union), I recommend that you speak to my colleague Didier Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u45	Minister, more than enough words have been wasted on this. Whatever Israel may say, the destruction of humanitarian projects is contrary to international law. In the middle of last year, a structural dialogue was agreed between Europe and Israel. It was agreed that six months, from 17 September to 17 March, would look at Israel's behaviour. I have a statistic here with me. The number of destructions of both purely Palestinian humanitarian projects and humanitarian projects by donors such as Belgium, we are one of the largest donors of humanitarian projects in zone C, has never been higher than in February. In that structural dialogue it was stated: "If there is no clear freeze of destruction of donor structures, EU Member States will make public the financial value of the structures they financed that were destroyed in Zone C and demand compensation. We are today 15 March. I believe that the facts can only lead us to conclude that Israel has not complied with the agreement in the structural dialogue. We are one of the major donors of humanitarian projects in zone C. I am counting on us, on the basis of the agreement made with Israel, to call for the European Union to finally make the total sum of everything that has already been destroyed there and finally to put it on the table and demand compensation. I am very pleased with your announcement, Mr President, and I support that statement that we will not be deterred by Israel and that we will continue to invest in zone C, but we cannot continue to use our taxpayers' money for projects in zone C and Israel will continue to destroy humanitarian projects unpunished.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I fully agree with what Mr Van der Maelen has said. The impression that we have is that we are laying sparadraps on bereaved wounds that would deserve greater care. The money is thrown out the windows, since things are built and projects are implemented; these actions are financed by the Belgian and European citizen, and their result is destroyed by the Israelis. There is no response to the constant aggressions of the Israeli authority. I fear that even public opinion will end up saying that we must stop financing these projects, since it is money thrown out the windows. I call on our government to take a much stronger position in this situation. I hear that we want to be part of a European framework; I do not say that we should not. However, at Belgian level too, we have the means to act that could be stronger, and we are not implementing them. We should also ask for compensation at the level of Belgium for these Belgian projects which have been destroyed. We should, in a much more active and binding way, implement regulations on the labelling of colonial products. In a much more systematic way, we should be firmer and condemn settlement projects much more strongly. These, despite everything we hear, are indeed continuing. I note that this is not what we are doing. Nor did we have the courage to recognize the Palestinian State when the opportunity to do so came before Parliament. I'm still waiting for the government to say that the right time has finally come. That is still not the case, and I regret it. As Belgium, we do not assume our responsibilities. We are therefore partly responsible for the situation which is worsening every day on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u47	Madam President, Minister, many CBHAs have been born out of the desire of their founders to establish strong links with institutions or organizations located in disadvantaged countries in order to contribute directly, in particular, to health, education and the protection of young people from particularly precarious populations. These contacts, often personalized (especially in the case of sponsorships), raise awareness of the North-South exchanges in Belgium and give a very positive image of our country among the populations thus supported. Within the framework of Development Cooperation, these NSOs are recognized as the 4th pillar. They can then benefit their donors from a tax exemption, which is, of course, an important incentive for the continuity of their actions. It would appear, however, that new restrictions are being placed on the approval of these non-profit organizations. It would now be conditional on a reduction in the number of countries of action and/or in the number of projects and institutions assisted by the relevant NSAs. Like bilateral government cooperation, South-East Asian countries, India and Latin America would thus be excluded from recognized countries. Non-profit organisations operating in these regions would therefore not be able to retain their authorisation when it is necessary to qualify for tax reductions. We can hardly imagine the consequences this could have for the activities of these non-profit organisations and for the continuation of their cooperation projects. On the other hand, current approvals have been reduced from six to four years, which would therefore constitute the deadline given by the administration to reduce the number of projects and/or institutions assisted even more rapidly. Minister, do you confirm this information? Many ASBLs organise, for example, sponsorships of children (sometimes via the school environment), thus establishing personalized relationships between sponsors and sponsors. Is this type of interpersonal assistance also affected by these new restrictions? Are the so-called 4th pillar non-profit organisations now subject to stricter conditions for obtaining their approval? Is their autonomous action also affected by the reduction in the number of partner countries in our government cooperation and its concentration on the poorest countries in Africa? If so, can you explain to me the reasons for such a decision? Can you tell me exactly what the exact conditions for obtaining such approval are today (aid objectives, target countries, type of convention, etc.) and what is the practical implication of granting or refusing an LSA? How do we take into account the consequences of refusal of approval on assisted populations (transition period, continuity in the field)? Finally, how does the necessary consultation between Development Cooperation and the tax administration organise for the approval of these non-profit organisations in the area of exemption? What are the instructions given in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u48	Mr de Lamotte, in order to be eligible as an institution assisting developing countries and to obtain approval for the tax reduction, the legal basis of the FPS Finance has not changed. The decision to approve is taken jointly by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development Cooperation. It is communicated by the Minister of Finance. The NSAs are approved on the basis of a number of criteria, some of which fall within the scope of Development Cooperation. These include the implementation of activities complementary to those carried out by Belgian Development Cooperation. The only geographical limitation is to implement their activities in the countries listed by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. Therefore, changes in the target countries of bilateral cooperation alone cannot affect approval. On the other hand, the duration of approvals varies and has always varied between two and six years. In conclusion, your question combines two different and separate regulatory frameworks: on the one hand, authorisation to obtain tax reduction and, on the other hand, accreditation to be recognised as an actor in non-governmental cooperation and to have access to subsidies, which is not the case for 4th pillar non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic367x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will compare the elements of your response to the reality of the ground and, if necessary, I will come back with a request for further clarification.
