ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u1	Mrs Grovonius is not here. Her question No. 4232 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u2	Mr Minister, my question was put a long time ago when we did not get through the agenda. In mid-October, an article was published in the newspaper on the imbalance in the distribution of tasks between men and women. Professor Ignace Glorieux came to the conclusion that men still have more free time than women on average six hours a week. He said that nothing has changed in the last 15 years. I quote him: "We have long thought things would move themselves, as more women began to work, but that is clearly not the case." One of the great culprits for that unwavering pattern, according to Glorieux, is maternity leave. I quote him again: "Because you put women at home for three months, while the fathers go back to work after a few days. Sometimes they don't even stay at home at all, because in more than half the births there is no paternity leave at all. I quote Glorieux further: In those months, a pattern is installed that actually works for life. Why do we force the mothers to stay home and not the fathers?" He is joined in that theorem by, among other things, Femma. It is an illusion to think that the decision to stay home for longer is merely a free choice that makes a family at the kitchen table. The social context and regulation in this area have a major impact on this. The unequal distribution of parental leave also affects the rest of the career of men and women in couples. This is also confirmed by researcher Ilse Laurijssen of the VUB, who was a doctor with research into part-time working women under the age of 30. She explains the following: After graduation, men will find themselves more easily in a challenging job. Such a man progresses faster in his career, is often a few years older than his wife, deserves more than the children come. Then the conclusion at the kitchen table is soon that the woman's number of hours is best screwed back. This mechanism also means that employers often see women as workers who can be counted less. That could help explain why men get into challenging jobs faster, while having a challenging job just helps to control the time pressure. According to Laurijssen, there is often more autonomy in a challenging job. She too sees salvation in extensive fatherhood and parenthood. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What, with the arguments I have mentioned above in mind, is your view that a first important step towards greater equality would be to force paternity leave, at least to extend it or even to make it easier to apply for that leave? One could grant leave automatically, so that daddies should not actually negotiate it with their employer and it is an obvious fact. How do you feel about that statement? Are you considering taking steps in this direction or even introducing such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u3	I suppose it's not about our Prime Minister's paternity leave, but about paternity leave itself. Apparently, I've heard, he has no right to paternity leave. The Prime Minister doesn't have that. You don't either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u4	(...) regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u5	That is true in your capacity as a Member of Parliament. Perhaps you could table a bill on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can reply quite briefly. For me, the coalition agreement is the document to be implemented. Mrs Willaert, I would like to remind you that in two places in the coalition agreement there is a provision relating to your question. Firstly, the current government wants to commit itself to maintaining existing thematic leave, motivated time credits and career breaks, parental leave, care leave and palliative leave, provided that there is a strengthening of the control of motivations and career conditions. Secondly, the government agreement states that, within the gender dimension, the government will pay particular attention to reconciliation of work and family life, and that policies will contribute to the equal distribution of men and women. An action plan focusing on equal opportunities in the field will be drawn up. It seeks, inter alia, the possibility of a more equal inclusion of leave schemes by both parents. It is clear, of course, that we must also ask for the views of the social partners and that we must also discuss them in the federal government. This will certainly include the budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u7	I understand, Minister, that it will be considered and that any steps will be taken forward. A while ago, the women at CD&V were warm for this proposal. I hope you can join them and at least take a few steps forward. This gender dimension is very important and research shows that it plays an important role. I know from experience that there can be a nice pattern if the dad helps more. That's what the investigation shows. It is only for a few days, but they are very important for the way in which a family can organise itself further. I hope you'll take that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u8	Mr Minister, my question concerns the funds for the security of living and their financial flows. Those funds are managed with contributions paid by employers. However, there is very little information on this. You can read all my detailed questions in the light of my oral question. I won't repeat them all. How many funds are there? What kind of activities are we talking about? What are the objectives? How's the check going? How much money are we talking about? Do you share my view that these contributions and revenues are public and that greater transparency is welcome? Is there an annual accounts being made public? Is a report being prepared for the FOD WASO?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u9	I have a hunch you already know the answer. After all, you can find all this information on the website of the FOD WASO. There are more than 180 funds for livelihood security, including the social Maribel funds for private non-profit organisations. You can find an overview of all these funds and their contact details on the website. Mr Lachaert will have consulted them several times. In accordance with the Law of 7 January 1958 on the Security of Living Funds, these funds can serve a threefold purpose: firstly, to finance, grant and distribute social benefits; secondly, to finance and organize vocational training for workers and young people; thirdly, to finance and ensure the safety and health of workers in general. You also know that, in addition to these three tasks, other tasks that the funds can assume in application of special regulations, such as training and training obligations and risk groups, must be taken into account. The funds are financed by private money, i.e. by employers' contributions which are agreed autonomously by the social partners concerned in a collective agreement to be declared generally binding. It is indeed important to remember that funds for security of existence are not financed by Community funds. There are only three exceptions to this general rule. There is co-financing with public funds for the social Maribel funds, the Maritime Fisheries Fund and the Internal Compensation Fund for the diamond sector. In these exceptional cases, therefore, a government commissioner has been provided for. The collection of the employer's contributions can be done by the funds themselves or through the National Social Security Office. The vast majority are through the RSZ, which is then reimbursed for this service. As far as your question of public or private resources is concerned, the income of those funds is, contrary to what you suggest in your question, private resources. As early as October 2004, the European Commission, following a judgment of the Court of Justice and after four years of investigation, considered that the funds managed were private resources for several reasons. The fact that the collective agreement establishing the Fund is made generally binding by royal decree does not alter the conventional nature of those provisions. Your next question concerns the control and competence with regard to the operation of the funds for the security of existence. Funds are not social public services. They are purely private-law initiatives, for which you, by definition, respect. The legislator did not set up the funds itself, as is the case with the public social security institutions, but merely set up a legal framework for the funds in which they can organise their activities. The Minister of Work and his administration therefore have limited competence. I'll go over that. Firstly, the most important aspects relating to the operation of the security of life funds, the establishment and adoption of the statutes, the amendment of the statutes, the determination of the benefits and of the employer's contributions should be laid down in collective agreements which the King has declared generally binding. Any collective agreement for which a request for a general declaration is made shall be checked by my administration for its legality. Secondly, the law of 7 January 1958 on the security of living funds provides for the intervention of the Minister only in the event of a disturbance in the financial equilibrium of a fund. If the social partners do not themselves take sufficient remedial measures, the King may impose the necessary public remedial measures. The management of each fund is controlled by a reviewer or an accountant, which you by definition also have a lot of confidence in. Like me, by the way. A auditors or auditors shall have an unlimited right of supervision and investigation of all the fund's accounting operations. He may inspect books, correspondence, minutes and any writing of the Fund on the spot. Where a fund is in a situation of financial imbalance, a special obligation of the auditor or auditor shall apply. Indeed, where it appears that the financial statements show a negative balance that cannot be cleared with previously established reserves, the auditor or auditor shall report this in his report. I come to the following aspect: transparency. The Royal Decree of 15 January 1999 on the accounts and annual accounts for the security of living funds established an appropriate accounting system for the funds of security of existence, which takes account of the specific needs and characteristics of the funds. This KB was established after consultation with the National Labour Council. The annual accounts to be drawn up each year shall include the balance sheet, the profit and loss account and an explanation comme il faut, as any small and large enterprise must do. It must be drawn up in accordance with a pre-defined structure. No problem either. The annual accounts, the annual report on the security of existence funds and the report of the auditor or auditor shall be forwarded annually to the chairman of the competent Joint Committee or Subcommittee, who shall immediately submit them to the Joint Committee or Subcommittee. The Chairman of that Joint Committee shall then immediately send a copy of these documents to the Minister for Employment and Labour or to the Minister for Employment. It's done through the administration. The administration then examines the aspect of financial equilibrium. All documents submitted to the General Executive Board of Collective Labour Relations are considered to be administrative documents which can be consulted by everyone in accordance with the rules governing public administration, and certainly by Members of Parliament. Moreover, the funds for the security of life themselves spontaneously take initiatives to achieve greater transparency of their operation, for example through a website. For example, everyone can also consult the annual reports digitally on the website of certain funds for the security of living, for example in the construction sector. Mr Lachaert, as far as transparency is concerned, everything is perfectly regulated by the previous governments. I know these funds get regular attention. That's good, too. Another aspect that was not dealt with in your question concerns the simplification of the joint committees to which we must come. If these funds are linked to joint committees, we will be able to harmonise them further. Unless you have other information, there is no major current problem. If so, you will certainly inform me about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed and detailed reply. The advantage of a detailed question is that the answer comes back in detail. You will recognise that we are in the semi-public-private sphere, in the sense that it is about contributions paid by employers. This is usually an obligation in the sector. There is therefore a certain public objective, but private funds are used to implement it. What you're saying is true. I can share your analysis. However, this is a public objective, and that is why we need to ensure that the funds are well spent and guaranteed, so that the tasks are properly carried out and financially covered. However, there should be no exaggeration by placing money in capitals that are not needed for that purpose. There is no acute, major problem, but one fund is more transparent than the other. Of some, a lot of information can be found on the Internet, for others it is not. The question is whether the current resources are sufficient. You have described the framework very clearly. However, the question is whether the control of each fund is being effectively exercised? There are no major abuses to me today, but it is a point of attention, knowing that there is a lot of money involved, which also has to cover important objectives for workers. We can continue this debate. In any case, I found it interesting to ask you those questions. Thank you for the detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u11	Minister, this question also dates back to the previous committee meeting. Since 1 September 2015, young people without a diploma or equivalent certificate are no longer entitled to an integration allowance. According to the ACV's figures on 1 September, there were three thousand young people who would no longer receive benefits and who would no longer be accompanied by the VDAB to get a job. We've been a lot of months now. In the meantime, do you have reliable data on the number of young people who are not receiving or no longer receiving benefit for this reason? Do you know how many of these young people have used a living wage and how many more young people are being accompanied to the labour market? At the presentation of the second socio-economic monitoring on 17 November 2015, you said that you are aware that this is a delicate dossier and that you monitor and follow up the situation closely to see if young people disappear from the radar. How exactly do you do that? After all, if these young people do not come to the OCMW, how can you follow them? It is interesting to know how many young people are knocking on the door at the OCMW, but it actually seems even more interesting to us to know what happens to the young people who do not knock on the door at the OCMW. What will you do when you can see from the figures that young people are disappearing from the radar and that young people are getting so far from the labour market that their access to it is becoming increasingly unlikely? At the presentation of the second socio-economic monitoring, you spoke about adjustments if young people appear to disappear from the radar. What do you mean, "redirect"? What could that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u12	Mrs Willaert, both the previous and the present government have taken various measures in this area, and I insist that we follow that very closely. With facts and figures we try to indicate and understand what is happening. That is my first concern and also the task I have given: to study with more knowledge what is happening in practice. I still have the concern I expressed back then. In the next few weeks and months, we will have a better view of what is happening exactly. I have tried to respond specifically to your question, even if it only deals with part of the problem. Only young people who have received a payment or have submitted at least a claim for benefit are known to the RVA. The size of the entire population of young people who lose the right to an integration allowance as a result of the introduction of a diploma condition is therefore unknown. Based on historical figures, the RVA estimates that in the last four months of 2014 1 849 young people across the country were not immediately admitted to the entitlement to an integration allowance. The estimate could reach 3 949 young people across the country in 2016. If we compare the influx of 21-year-olds from September to November 2015 with the same period in 2014, then we find that the influx of those young people into the integration allowance system decreased by 698 units. The 2015 figures are provisional. The RVA was not expected to receive all the applications for benefit from that group of young people. The RVA has disseminated the information on the new measures in all transparency through its website. It was decided to apply the scheme only with effect from 1 September 2015, a date after the expiry of the 12 month professional start-up period, starting on 1 August 2014. For example, the legitimate expectations of young people who had no knowledge of the measure were not ashamed. Individual information is not possible, since the identity of young people, who may or may not stop their studies without having a diploma or certificate, is not known by the RVA. Persons who are not entitled to a benefit do not normally submit a claim for benefits either. Young people who have completed their studies can register with the regional employment service. It guides them in the usual way. The young people concerned are, in principle, entitled to an integration allowance from the age of 21. The young people concerned therefore have an interest in registering as a job seeker. They shall be succeeded by the regional employment service, whether or not they are immediately entitled to benefits after the end of the period of employment. During the period preceding the granting of the benefit, it may be expected that those young people who were in principle dependent on their parents will continue to be dependent on them. For additional information on the number of young people using career guidance or a living wage, I must now refer to the regional employment services and, respectively, to the competent Secretary of State responsible for the fight against poverty, Mrs Elke Sleurs. Furthermore, with effect from 1 January 2016, the Flemish and Walloon Region effectively took control of the active search behaviour of job seekers, so that the follow-up under that procedure is no longer our responsibility. A further follow-up will be necessary, as I have already said. I also believe that I am looking at this with great care. I do not just mean the problem of qualifications or qualifications. First of all, I would like to see the number of young people involved and the impact of the measure on those concerned. In the next few weeks, I hope to gain some insight into this by means of figures, even though the figures are not easy to obtain, as I have tried to explain to you. On the basis of these figures, we will be able to study the situation. I don't want to anticipate whether or not we should be sent in. The concern, which I understand you share with me, is about young people disappearing off the radar and of which we do not know what is happening to them. I want to follow that very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that we share that concern. I will come back to that once you have more figures, hopefully. I asked the question because, in my opinion, sometimes there is a slight turn of events, and I think you will agree with me. It is sometimes said that one third of young people are knocking on the door of the OMCW and that the other two thirds have been helped. I do not think that answer is intellectually fair, because we do not know exactly what is happening to these young people and hence the concerns we share. Even though young people simply remain dependent in a family, for some families they are very difficult times. In Flanders, for example, the energy bill goes up. It is not, therefore, because a young person is not registered or is not knocking on the door, that the young person is not in difficulty. Hence the concern and the demand for more figures on this issue, so that we do not have to discuss it in the slightest. I think it is not so easy for a third of the young people to come to the OMCW, while two thirds have already been helped. I think the reality is much more complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u14	Minister, Federgon recently announced that it could move quickly with the electronic employment agreement. In a previous question, I have already looked at the abolition of the 48-hour rule which stipulates that temporary employment agencies have two days to draw up a contract. That sometimes leads to abuse. You replied at that time that the 48-hour rule could probably be abolished from 1 July 2016. Federgon says in his communication that electronic employment contracts are a practical condition for the abolition of the 48-hour rule. Can we conclude from this that I can be premature in saying that the 48-hour rule can also be abolished earlier, as the electronic employment contracts are already there? Are both elements still linked? What about the timing of the abolition of the 48-hour rule? Will all temporary agency agencies be able to use the electronic employment contract for their full staff of temporary agency workers at the same time? If not, will there still be some transitional periods in which offices still working with paperwork can still use the 48-hour rule? Will the Social Inspectorate have access to the digital platform associated with the introduction of the electronic employment contract? That would make control easier. After all, this digital platform will give the temp a glimpse of all his contracts with different temporary agency agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u15	Mr Vercamer, the discussions on the abolition of the 48-hour rule within the Technical Working Group on Temporary Work, set up in the lap of the NAR, are at an advanced stage. The social partners are expected to issue a formal opinion on this in February. Indeed, the abolition of the 48-hour rule is still linked to the practical condition for wider recourse to electronic employment contracts in the broadcasting sector. At present, an electronic employment contract can only be legally concluded if it is signed by an electronic signature created by the electronic identity card, the eID. However, during the discussions of the technical working group within the NAR, it was found that not all temporary agency workers are in all circumstances able to sign through their electronic identity card, for example when there is only very little time between the time when the temporary agency worker is contacted and the time when he has to take up the assignment. In addition to the possibility of signing contracts via that electronic identity card, the social partners have therefore also sought an alternative method of signing the temporary agency work contract electronically, which allows the identity of the parties, their agreement to the content of the agreement and the preservation of the integrity of that agreement. At the same time as this adjustment, the 48-hour scheme would be abolished for both electronic and paper temporary work contracts. The social partners did not provide for a transitional period during the discussion in their working group. However, they ask that the legislative amendment they requested should not enter into force until the target date of 1 September 2016, which should give all actors involved in the broadcasting sector the opportunity to prepare themselves for the new situation. Once the social partners have given their formal opinion on this dossier, and it seems that this will happen, I will take the necessary legislative initiatives to respond to their request and, of course, submit them here as well. Labour legislation provides that the employee's access to electronic employment contracts must be guaranteed at all times and that the employer must be able to submit the electronic employment contract immediately to the competent inspection services requesting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u16	If I am right, September 1st is already the third deadline proposed. I can therefore assume that both the agreement of the social partners and the regulatory work will indeed be in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u17	It should be possible, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u18	If I am not mistaken, in 2007, as Secretary of State, I was still involved in the law on the electronic employment contract. It's 2016. Isn't that incredible? It's been nine years. I know the private sector is even slower, but nine years is slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u19	That is indeed a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u20	Thank God you're here now, Minister. You're gonna fix this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u21	Minister, even though the managers of the company La Redoute announced in January 2014 that the removal of 1,178 jobs in four years would not affect Belgium, it was reported on Wednesday 10 December that following an extraordinary works council, it had been decided to abolish six jobs on the Estaimpuis site. Added to the dismissal of another worker in September, this makes seven dismissals recorded on the Estampuis site in three months. The reasons given for these dismissals are competition with online sales sites and overstaffing. Minister, such a gift from the company for the end-of-year celebrations obviously causes fear among workers who ask questions about their own future in the company. Have you had any contact with the management of La Redoute about these redundancies? Do you know whether alternatives to redundancies such as reclassification, credit-time or pre-pension are envisaged? Finally, can you tell us whether this restructuring will require a more drastic reorganization of society?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senesael, concerning the dismissals in La Redoute on the site in question, I now have the following information. A total of five points. First point: an extraordinary works council took place on 10 December, during which management reported a decline in activity due to insufficient financial performance and increasingly aggressive competition from e-commerce, resulting in the choice of a resizing of activity and the loss of six jobs, including four positions in the financial accounting service, one call centre and one position in the commercial service, out of a total of 68 positions. Second point: this is not the announcement of collective redundancies within the meaning of CTC No. 10. There is therefore no application of the Renault law. The statutory severance benefits will be applied. Thirdly, trade unions will pay close attention to compliance with all legal and regulatory provisions, and in particular the sectoral CTC of 21 September 2015, which includes the obligation, I quote, "not to resort systematically or repeatedly to the use of temporary or temporary labour". Fourth point: during the January meeting of the ordinary works council held last week, the workers' representatives asked the employer about the guarantees he intended to provide for the sustainability of the activities and the company. Fifth and final point: the management agreed with the workers' representatives to hold a meeting with the trade union delegation in February to provide the information requested and to allow the parties to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u23	Thank you, Minister. This is what we call a complete, structured, magnificent response. If all ministers could respond like that. I say to you, "Bravo!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u24	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on June 5, 2015, you announced to the press the finalization of a bill to combat social dumping, particularly in the construction sector. The purpose of this project was to correct the mechanism of joint and several liability currently provided for in article 35 of the Compensation Protection Act 1965. The corrections provided for in your bill were as follows. 1. Deletion of the 14-day period provided for by the current law before the effective implementation of the joint and several liability, the latter having to start, according to your project, as soon as the social inspection finds fraud. 2. Abolition of the limitation of joint and several liability to future remuneration to be paid, for a period of up to one year, taking place on the 15th day following the finding of fraud by the social inspectorate: joint and several liability would start immediately upon the finding of fraud by the social inspectorate and would apply to all wages payable under the contract, both for past benefits already performed by the posted worker and for his future benefits. This means in concrete terms that, after the vote on your bill, if the social inspection finds that the salary paid to the posted worker is not in conformity with the law, it will have to be paid immediately to the posted worker the difference between the salary actually paid to him and the salary which should have been legally paid to him, starting from the first day on which the posted worker began his benefits on the site. 3. The joint and several liability thus reviewed would cover the whole chain of entrepreneurs, whether they are prime contractor, contractor, subcontractor or subcontractor, as well as the contractor, all of whom are jointly and severally responsible for the payment of the differential between the salary actually paid to the posted worker and the salary which should have been legally paid to him. The announcement of your bill was welcomed by the construction trade unions. Moreover, the amendment to this effect of the mechanism of joint and several liability in respect of wages is clearly called for by the construction sector itself, this proposal being taken up in the proposals made by the Citizen Platform against Social Dumping in construction. Minister, my question is this. This bill was announced more than six months ago and, to my knowledge, nothing has yet been introduced to this effect in Parliament. What are you waiting for or waiting for the federal government to act and finally implement these provisions that would help to combat the scourge of social dumping, both for Belgian workers, who lose their jobs, and for posted workers, who are shamefully exploited in our country without any effective sanction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u25	Mr Carcaci, you know that Mrs Thyssen announced in the press that she hoped to be able to present in the spring her mobility package containing the measures relating to secondment. Of course, we cannot react at the moment to a plan that has not yet been submitted by the European Commissioner. It is true that negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Council are still under way. It is possible that in the coming weeks we will be announcing developments in this regard. Belgium maintains, of course, with determination the fundamental freedoms constituting the European Union, such as the free movement of persons. At the same time, we are calling for abuses to be combated at European level. On the other hand, I can inform you that a preliminary draft for the transposition of Directive 2015/67 was sent to the National Labour Council at the end of December. Once the latter has given its opinion, the text will be tabled in the House of Representatives. In particular, a specific system of joint and several liability for wages for construction companies is included. This mechanism, which we propose and for which an informal consensus has been reached, is in addition to other provisions in this area. It determines that the sponsoring contractor exercises this responsibility for the payment of the minimum wage, unless it has established in writing that the subcontractor is required to pay it, even if, without his knowledge, such payment is not made. This is the same mechanism that already exists for the employment of illegal workers. As regards measures at Benelux level, I can inform you that on 23 September 2015, the Benelux countries approved an agreement to start the fight against social dumping together and to organise joint controls. This is a further elaboration of the commitments made by the three countries at the Benelux Social Summit in 2014 and at the Benelux First Ministers' Summit in 2015. I do not have a timetable for the conclusion of cooperation agreements with institutions in so-called risk countries. With regard to the question concerning the amendment of article 433, quinquies, of the Criminal Code, I draw your attention to the fact that this matter is not within my competence but that of my colleague, the Minister of Justice, to whom I must refer you. As for your question concerning the transposition into Belgian law of the new directive on public procurement, I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that such a matter is not more a matter for me but for the Prime Minister to whom I am referring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u26	Minister, thank you for that answer. I will be paying attention both at European and Belgian level. As you said, the proposal will have to come back to the House in the Chamber. As you kindly advise me, I will appeal to the Prime Minister and your colleague in the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u27	Excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u28	Minister, the Act of 11 February 2013 laying down sanctions and measures for employers of illegally staying third-country nationals provides for a ban on employment for persons without legal residence and for better protection of workers. The law also provides for the possibility for organisations to take legal action to ensure the effective payment of late pay for workers in illegal residence of a third country. In order for institutions or associations to be able to defend the interests of those workers, a royal decree must be issued. What is the status of the royal decree? Will that be there soon? If it's not there yet, why not? Is there any further consultation with the organisations? Is there any discussion within the government? Can you tell me which organisations will be able to act for the interests of these workers? Will these organisations be given additional resources to carry out their mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u29	Ms Kitir, consultations were held with the public benefit institutions and with organisations on the list approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2012. Five institutions agreed to defend the interests of illegally staying third-country nationals. In particular, it concerns the League of Human Rights, la Ligue des Droits de löwHomme, CIRÉ vzw, OR.C.A. vzw and Foyer vzw. The competent services of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation have, upon request from me, as Minister of Work, drafted the Royal Decree determining the legal entities referred to in Article 8, 4° of the Law of 11 February 2013 laying down penalties and measures applicable to illegally staying third-country nationals. The draft Royal Decree is currently being submitted for signature to the Ministers and State Secretary concerned with a view to requesting advice from the Council of State. No additional funds were allocated to these organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u30	Minister, I am pleased that the Royal Decree has already been drawn up and that it is on its way for advice. I do hope it doesn't take much longer. After all, from 2012 until now is a long time. I hope that this can be achieved in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u31	Mr President, Minister, e-commerce is taking on considerable scope at this time. This was again noticed when the level of terrorist alert rose to 4. Consumers then moved to e-commerce rather than going out to shopping streets or shopping malls. A breath of oxygen for the traders, who suffered greatly from this situation of quite exceptional character. During the holiday season, the trade is in full swing. Both shopping streets and shopping malls are crowded. There is also a considerable influx of online sales sites. However, it is mostly sites located abroad that benefit from this craze for e-commerce. Indeed, about 60% of the e-commerce market in Belgium is captured by our neighbours. Why? Because in these countries night work is allowed, allowing companies to prepare packages overnight so that they can deliver them quickly. In Belgium, legislation prohibits work between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. for the retail sector. I am very attentive to all developments in e-commerce in our country. I also welcomed the Start-up Plan, which includes a night work authorisation for activities related to e-commerce. I also know that during 2015, you held a round table and talks with the relevant actors in order to achieve clear, effective and fair legislation for all. Minister, what is the status of discussions in the Joint Committees on the modalities for the introduction of night work in the e-commerce sector? What are the conclusions of these talks? What is your agenda for implementing these concrete modalities? What impact should these measures have on the country's economy? Job creation should certainly take place. It would be interesting flooring on the way. We need a real balance. I do not wish to be in favour of the e-commerce punt aan de lijn, that is not the objective. However, it is ridiculous that part of our turnover goes abroad. We must certainly work in this direction and adopt a policy on local trade. We also need to evolve in relation to new technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, you know that the social partners in the trade and distribution sector concluded, just before Christmas, an agreement on e-commerce needs, and more specifically on authorisation to work at night. In this agreement, all the signatory parties undertake, on the basis of the principles laid down, to conclude contracts at company level which make it possible to develop e-commerce activities. As a result, jobs will be created. Each company will be able to give tailor-made content to this agreement. The first step was completed at the end of last week. The social partners of the Joint Committees 201, 202, 311 and 312 have concluded collective labour agreements concerning night work and e-commerce. At present, negotiations on night work can begin at company level as long as they respect the sectoral framework. It was also requested to issue a royal decree under article 37 of the Labour Act in order to introduce a derogation from the prohibition of night work in case of e-commerce activity. The publication of this decree will create the necessary working framework for the introduction of night work in the sectors concerned. The choice to give, through social consultation, more opportunities for the development of e-commerce is deliberate. This will quickly lead to job creation as a result of this sectoral framework. Unlike legislative initiatives, this social dialogue will speed up implementation at enterprise level. Apart from the sectoral framework, the wage burden will also play an important role in job creation in e-commerce. The impact of the tax shift reduction, which targets the lowest wages, is not negligible for this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u33	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I see that there is progress and I am delighted about it. The work is obviously still important. These are subjects that interest me and I will certainly come back to you when I see the need to see how your work is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u34	Minister, in the previous legislature, the trial period was abolished as part of the harmonization of the statutes of workers and employees. Thus, since 1 January 2014, it has been abolished for all, with the exception of student jobs and temporary work. This is justified by the rather short notice periods which the employer and the worker must comply with in the first year of the worker's entry into service. Two years later, the Union des Classes Moyennes asked for its reintroduction. Perverse effects have been observed: employers multiply temporary contracts and fixed-term contracts in order not to hire an unspecified person for an indefinite period. Indeed, according to the UCM president, one in two people is not suitable for the job for which they were hired, hence the need to provide trial periods. Since 1 January 2014, as part of the policy of the Small Business Act initiated by the European Commission, drafters must complete the "SME test", which analyses the impact of a draft law on SMEs. However, it turned out that this test was often not filled in effectively and comprehensively by the authors, which totally distorts the analyses and therefore does not allow for a negative impact on Belgian SMEs. As part of the elimination of the trial period, had the SME test been carried out? What were the conclusions? Did it foresee the negative impact of the elimination of the trial period? Will a new SME test be carried out as part of a possible reintroduction of the trial period? How could the trial period be reintroduced while maintaining the harmony of the status of workers and employees, with the aim of avoiding perverse effects such as the use of temporary work or fixed-term contracts? I will end by giving an example: most companies do fixed-term contracts to avoid this problem. There is some mobility in employment. When you have a fixed-term job offer in front of you, there are people who don't dare to change jobs. I therefore believe that this measure has a perverse effect. I believe that an indeterminate contract with a trial period was entirely in favour of both the employer and the employee. It should not be seen as discrimination, far from it. I would therefore like to hear you in relation to that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the Act of 26 December 2013 on the introduction of a single statute between workers and employees as regards notice periods and the day of default and accompanying measures introduced a general rule on notice, valid for all workers. First of all, I would like to point out that the entry into force of this provision implements the compromise reached in the negotiations with the social partners. Since the introduction of these measures, I have never been informed of an effect that could be seen as a hindrance to recruitment. Surveys have been published, revealing that the trial period would have led to changes in the behaviour of employers. As I have already pointed out on several occasions, the real interest of employers showing such a reaction is difficult to understand. Without going into concrete examples, new notice periods, in any case for employees, are much shorter than those previously applied. The situation is changing. It therefore seems to me that the single statute did not introduce an additional requirement in terms of notice, either for SMEs or the largest companies. On the other hand, negotiations had to be taken into account, to the extent possible, and the fear of future dismissal did not constitute a barrier to recruitment. I can also point out that, as provided for in the government agreement, we will propose to the social partners to assess the reform of the notice periods and the abolition of the trial period in order to avoid obstacles to recruitment policy and to guarantee the hiring of workers. This is the most important aspect. I understand that this discussion with the social partners is necessary. That's why I'm gonna try to start it as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u36	Minister, for once, we will not be entirely in agreement. You tell me you don't have a complaint and little echo; I have a lot of it. The position of the UCM is clear. I understand that this is a comprehensive agreement and that part of this agreement cannot be changed without negotiation. I hope, however, that it can be assessed within a fairly short period of time. It is necessary to take this file with arms-to-body so that the perverse effects do not manifest. This should not turn against workers and against hiring. The government wants to create jobs and we really need to go in that direction. It is necessary to evaluate, to seek the opinion of the social partners and to negotiate within a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u37	Minister, it was a very difficult balancing exercise between the European Commission and the port labour sector, which led to an agreement on 11 December with Commissioner for Transport, Violeta Bulc, on the modernisation of port labour in our country. The legislation should be brought into line by 1 July of this year. It would then be implemented gradually over a period of four years. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, so far we have had little information on the practical implementation of the modernisation process of port work. However, we were told that the obligation to work for day contracts with a pool of recognized dock workers would disappear. Is that right? What other elements does the agreement with the European Commission contain? What approach does one want to evolve towards and what are the different intermediate steps? Secondly, consultations with the trade unions of the sector were planned on 13 January. What were the points raised? What was the outcome of that meeting? My question dates from the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u38	Minister, I have the same problem. A question is being drawn up and a few weeks later they are already a little further in the process. All the better, I hope. I hope to hear that from you. There's no need for much more introduction. Mr Lanjri has already mentioned several things. I have some questions in the same order of magnitude. What was discussed at that meeting between unions and employers? Could you give us an overview of the roadmap until 30 June to reach the final solution? After all, Europe imposed the deadline on 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u39	Minister, on Friday 11 December we heard from the press that there was an agreement between you and the European Commission on the reform of the Major Act. However, a great deal of information has not yet been provided to the members of the committee on this dossier. Hence my questions. What are the main lines of the proposal that you, as a minister, have presented to the European Commission on your own initiative? Is the European Commission's formal response to the proposal already known? Will the procedure of default be put on hold? What consultations are planned with the social partners concerned? What are the views on each of the proposals mentioned in the first paragraph?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u40	Mr President, it is a dossier that needs to be handled very carefully, first and foremost by the Minister responsible. The final result is of course also very important, so we need to communicate with the public with great care, but you, as Members of Parliament, absolutely have the right to be informed about the state of play. Once again, I hope you understand that there is a great deal of concern in this matter. On 24 March 2014, our country received a notice of formal notice on five points. It concerns in particular Article 48 of the EU Treaty on freedom of establishment. What are those five points? Firstly, the obligation to work with recognized port workers who come from a single pool; secondly, the restriction of freedom of choice for the duration of the contract of employment; thirdly, the obligations concerning shift compositions; fourthly, the prohibition of multitasking; fifthly, the need to recognise also logistical port workers. These are the five points for which Belgium was failed. My approach is primarily to prevent a condemnation of Belgium. There are other discussions going on, but I hope everyone understands that we are doing all we can to avoid a condemnation of Belgium. My predecessor Monica De Coninck did that and I'm trying to continue it now. In recent months there have been intensive consultations with the social partners and the European Commission: thirteen meetings with the social partners, five meetings with the European Commission. On 10 December 2015, I handed over an action plan to the Commissioner responsible for Transport. This action plan provides answers to all the elements of the notice of default, with the main element that employers will henceforth be free to recruit port workers outside the pool, provided that they are recognised port workers. On the other day, the Commissioner confirmed to me that, if correctly transposed into Belgian law by 1 July 2016, the action plan will allow her to propose to the Commission that we stop the procedure for our country's default. In the meantime, therefore, no procedure will be initiated at the European Court of Justice. The agreement, if correctly transposed, will therefore ensure that our country is not condemned. That action plan is a first cautious step. We now have some time to put that into practice. On 17 December the social partners were informed and on 13 January 2016 they provided their insights on the content of this action plan. On 20 January there was a new meeting with the social partners. At the end of the negotiations, the trade unions announced their satisfaction with the willingness of the workers to continue discussions with a view to commitments regarding the further use of the pool in the future and their intention to present the results of these negotiations to their supporters in due course. I remain convinced, even though this is not the easiest way to find solutions through social dialogue to meet the European concerns and concerns of employers and workers. It is also for that reason that I am communicating very carefully because I want to give every opportunity to ensure that the consultation between employers and employees is successful. It is already terribly complex with the European Commission, the employers, the workers, Parliament, the government; all the actors who follow this dossier very closely. If we implement the action plan correctly, so if the social partners agree, we can move forward. That's all that matters. If, for some reason, social dialogue is stopped at some point, all these efforts will remain unfulfilled. I'm gonna stay positive. Who'd have thought we'd get this far? However, the bear's skin must not be sold until it has been shot or, in this case, before there is an agreement with the social partners. If there is an agreement with the social partners, this can be explained in detail here. However, I would first like to give all the opportunities to the social partners. I hope you understand. I would like to repeat once again that questions have already been asked about this in the past, Mr Klaps.... that it is primarily about resolving defaults and preventing Belgium from being convicted. There are also discussions about logistics and so on, for which I am also trying to find solutions. It's an en-en-approach and not an or-or-approach. I hope we can get there with this cautious approach, with your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u41	As far as the latter is concerned, Minister, you can count on us in advance. Everyone realises that this is not only an extremely complex dossier, but also an extremely important dossier for the economy, the port, the employment in that port, for thousands of families for whom the bread on the shelf depends on a job in the port. So far, you have succeeded in averting a conviction and working towards a solution. There's an action plan. I understand that you cannot give all the details of the negotiations, because it is a very delicate balancing exercise. It is important that you have managed to keep the social partners on speaking terms, because it is not always obvious to bring employees and trade unions together. They talk to each other, they listen to each other and they work together on a solution. I hope they will continue to do so and that you can facilitate that. I would like to congratulate you on that, and we will welcome a solution when it arrives. For the time being, I would just like to ask you to continue as you are doing, because it is extremely important for the many jobs in the port.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u42	Minister, we have known for some time now that the dossier is complex. The honourable Member has already said that it is very important that the port of Antwerp is the engine of the Flemish economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u43	From the Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u44	Even from the Belgian economy. Okay, my focus might be something else. The port has been able to report very good record figures. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we find a solution which is also accepted by Europe. I would like to say that you are already far beyond your predecessor's ever standing. I hope we are on the right track in this respect. You understand our curiosity. We want to follow up the story as briefly as possible, because of course it stands or falls with that final agreement. I understand very well that in such negotiations there will be an agreement only when there is an agreement on everything and that we have to deal with it very delicately. I have one more call, you referred to it yourself. The focus now is primarily on avoiding this European condemnation, all the understanding of it. I would just like to call on you, in the process of avoiding condemnation, not to make future reforms, which are also necessary in other areas such as logistics and e-commerce, impossible through agreements that would now be concluded. In my view, it must be an en-en-approach, where timing may vary slightly, as long as the problems can all be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u45	Let me also remain positive and say that I am pleased that you are giving the social dialogue opportunities. Others say that's unique. I still believe in social dialogue. There are plenty of examples of situations where it is possible. It is good that progress is being made in this story. I only hope that the action plan as we have presented it today, indicating that we will not be condemned if it is implemented in this way, will still allow for social dialogue. That's what I'm assuming. I understand that there is no agreement on this. I hope that space is guarded and that it is a real social consultation and not a sham, where there was supposedly a try, but there was no room for manoeuvre in the end. I hope we will succeed in this. I wish you every success and I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u46	You already know, Minister, that we were not in favour of stricter diploma requirements before anyone is entitled to an integration allowance. We have already tabled a legislative proposal to abandon the diploma requirements and to look at the effective needs and problems in practice. The strict requirements push young people who are already very vulnerable even deeper into the problems. Furthermore, the rules at present are absolutely unclear for teachers, for schools, for CLB staff and especially for young people who do not know what to expect and for what benefit, which they really need, they can count on if they leave the school banks. This was made clear by the situation of the pupils of the M-Decree. They are also threatened by the current regulations. We have repeatedly asked in committee to clarify matters. Mr Minister, are you prepared to reduce the measure? The rest group includes the weakest. If you are not prepared to take a step back, how will you ensure that the new rules are clear to all the actors involved? It has become clear that not everyone is aware of this. Have you consulted the various education ministers of the Communities? What was the result of that? What concrete actions will you take? Will there soon be an adjustment for the students who leave the school banks via the M-Decree? If so, what will the adjustment entail? If not, how can you guarantee that those already vulnerable young people will not be even more difficult in our society by maintaining the strict requirements of qualifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u47	In order to be entitled to an integration allowance, each young person must meet three basic conditions, which I shall consider for a moment. First of all, young people must have completed straight open studies. Secondly, if the young person applies for the benefit for his 21st birthday, he must meet the diploma requirements. Thirdly, he must be registered as a job seeker and his search for work during the employment period must be evaluated positively. As a result of the M-Decree, young people with disabilities attend ordinary education as far as possible. In this case, unemployment insurance must satisfy the normal conditions applicable to all young people following that course. So these young people, like their classmates, can go through straight open studies. Law-opening studies are independent of the requirement to obtain a diploma or a certificate. For example, a young person who has completed the sixth year of secondary education, even without obtaining a diploma, has completed straight open studies and thus fulfils the first condition. A diploma requirement was introduced in order to avoid young people going through only open-ended studies without obtaining a diploma or certificate and thus entering the labour market as little qualified. The second condition is to encourage young people to continue their studies and, if possible, to complete them. This requirement applies to young people who have not yet reached the age of 21. However, young people who do not fulfil that additional condition may still be admitted on their 21st birthday in the event of a subsequent claim for benefits. The list of diplomas and certificates was drawn up in full consultation with the Communities and the Regions. In my view, it is a balanced system and the establishment of specific provisions in the unemployment regulation for young people who, subject to reasonable adjustment, are considered to be able to follow ordinary education is not necessary. You say that the measure was not sufficiently communicated. I will look into that, but in any case I have had extensive consultations with all the competent education ministers to draw up the list. As I have just said to your colleague, I am following the benefits with great care. I said in plenary that I will look into the effects on the ground. After all, a number of young people disappear from statistics. We are very much in the process of mapping that out. What about the measures already taken by the previous government? I will also examine the impact of the measure that entered into force in September 2015. I hope that we can demonstrate that the measure is additional pressure for young people to obtain a diploma or certificate. I hope to have more insight into the figures in the next few weeks, but for the whole of the benefits. Majority and opposition are rightly concerned about this. I would like to know the effects of the benefits and the measures taken by the previous and current governments. I hope to be able to give some more explanation on the basis of figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will continue to differ. We agree that we must strive to get as many young people as possible to obtain a diploma, but you must not be blind to reality either. There will always be a limited group of students who will not pass a diploma. The measure is detrimental to those young people. I hear you say that a list has been drawn up from the Communities and that, in your humble opinion, this has been done in good consultation. However, I do not hear anything about communication, Minister. Once again, the students who were in the M decree and the pupils who were referred to are actually falling out of the boat, while they do not know that at the time of the decision. I therefore urge you to check whether communication also flows to the players who have to make the decision for the pupils or students concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u49	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Association of Asbestos Victims (ABEVA) held a press conference last December, with the theme "Asbestos workers have lost an average of 20 years of life". This press conference was an opportunity for the Association to recall the reform proposals it has proposed for several years, including the extension of the list of recognised and compensated diseases, the improvement of the financial compensation granted by AFA (Asbestos Fund), the creation of an early pension system for workers exposed to asbestos, the information of the various actors concerned about the existence of AFA and the rights available to victims of asbestos, and the improvement of research and treatment, as well as preventive measures to be put in place. Minister, how do you intend to act on this issue? How do you intend to take into account the various ABEVA proposals? Is there any consultation with the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health? If so, can you inform us about the modalities and results of this consultation? If not, do you intend to start such a dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u50	Mr President, my colleague, the Asbestos Fund, established within the Occupational Diseases Fund, falls within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. That is why with regard to your questions concerning the extension of the list of recognised and compensated diseases, the improvement of the financial compensation granted by the Asbestos Fund, the creation of an early pension system for workers who have been exposed to asbestos, the information of the various actors concerned about the existence of AFA, the rights available to victims of asbestos and the improvement of research and treatment, I must refer you to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, the Minister of Pensions and the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy. On the other hand, the preventive measures to be put in place when workers may be exposed to asbestos are laid down in the legislation on the well-being of workers when performing their work, and in particular in the Royal Decree of 16 March 2006 on the protection of workers from the risks associated with exposure to asbestos. As mentioned in my 2016 Employment Policy Note, I am considering a review of the existing legal framework for the protection of workers against asbestos with a view to possible updating to facilitate and improve the application of the rules on the ground. In fact, my firm has recently had contacts with the social partners in the construction sector and their prevention institute in order to study the problem of exposure of workers to asbestos in this sector. Currently, no consultation is planned with the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. However, if for certain aspects of these questions such consultation is indicated, given the importance of the subject, I am prepared to participate in it or, when an aspect falls within my competence, to initiate a consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u51	Thank you for your interest in this matter, Minister. I have taken note of your general policy note. I encourage you to continue to do so. I come with this question because of the tragedy of this disease in our society. This disease is unique because it is linked to asbestos exposure for years. While we knew the risks of asbestos, we were unable to act effectively enough for too many years. Thank you for what you can do in your area of expertise. I would also like to thank you for contacting, as appropriate, the other relevant members of the Government. Indeed, a series of competences are shared between different ministers. It is good to have a comprehensive strategic vision in this area. I note that, for years, the government had made 20 million euros available to the asbestos fund and that this money was not used or very partially used. It is therefore possible to improve the management of patients with asbestos and to prevent new cases of asbestos due to exposure in the workplace without spending more than originally planned under the Asbestos Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u52	Mr President, may I ask you to translate my two questions, Nos 8003 and 8127, into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u53	I'm sure you can. We shall now be able to put a quick question to the President-in-Office of the Council. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u54	Mrs. Temmerman, I can give you my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u55	That's good for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u56	The question has been asked, and the answer has been given. Let's do it this way. Then the Minister can leave. Mrs Temmerman, there will soon be a hearing on supplementary pensions. I don't know if you've heard that from your associates. This was reported during the course of the work. Also the list of the people who will come. That's actually what your question was about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u57	This afternoon it was also decided to invite someone from the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic325x.u58	Mrs Fonck has indeed said something about this. We will indeed invite them.
