ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical debate takes place in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. We have 11 combined questions. I also refer to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, which states, inter alia, that speaking time per questioner is two minutes. The member of the government gets five minutes to answer. In addition to Members who have tabled an oral question, Members can also join the debate. I refer once again to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure: 'With the exception of the group to which the questioner belongs, one more speaker may speak for two minutes per political group.' This can be done, at your choice, at the questioning or at the replies, after the Government's reply. Two parties did not submit any questions. If they so wish, they can join the debate, either in the questioning or in the replies. I said yesterday in the course of the proceedings that the Rules of Procedure require strict timing. That is necessary in order for things to proceed in an orderly manner, but I would like to allow some tolerance. However, I will not allow each group to speak for four or five minutes instead of two minutes. Then the debate would be too long. That's not the point. I will use my timer and I will warn you when your two-minute speaking time is over. Then you can finish your speech. I give the floor to Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u2	Mr President, I will try to keep to the timing, which is a little flexible today. Minister, last weekend you said in an interview with De Standaard that a significant part of the Muslim community danced in the streets after the attacks of 22 March. What happened on that day is terrible and we must do everything we can for the victims, for their families and for our country to catch up and punish the perpetrators. We must also condemn and punish those who provide hand and span services. Terrorist acts committed are reprehensible and we are equally disgusting to welcome terrorism. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. What's this all about? You say in the interview: "A significant part of the Muslim community has danced after the attacks of 22 March." We are not going to have a semantic discussion here, but "significant' means heavy, significant and meaningful. The question we need to ask ourselves here is really simple: where and when did these street parties take place? How many people danced there? A fact check is important. Name any problems? Yeah, but we have to name them right, without generalizing. There are eight hundred thousand Muslims living in our country, eight hundred thousand citizens like you and me, fellow Members. This means that people have danced on a large scale that day in question, rather than individuals. If we took 1% of those eight hundred thousand people, we'd be dealing with a group of eight thousand people. If we even take 0.1 % of these eight hundred thousand people, then we are dealing with a group of eight hundred people. Minister, I want to be very clear: even one person who would have danced is reprehensible. We have to condemn that. Minister, where are those 800 citizens, Muslims, who danced after the horrible events of 22 March?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u3	Mr Yüksel, can you ask your question? Your two-minute speaking time has already passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u4	The parquet was clear and said a number of things. You're referring to the National Security Council. A number of things are also known about this. There was supposed to be a police report. We are very curious about that police report, which could clear up a lot of cases. Can we have access to that? Minister, yesterday there was also a response from the Muslim Executive. I quote: "We say that Minister Jambon's statements stigmatize the Muslim community. They are unacceptable because of a minister responsible for the security of all citizens, including Muslims. It goes on: "The Minister's statements make the efforts of the Muslim executive more difficult to combat radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u5	Mr Yüksel, may I ask you to be specific?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u6	Mr President, I come to my questions. Minister, what are these statements based on? Where and when did these street parties take place? How many people have taken part in it? Was there any action against these celebrators? Are you aware of the fact that such statements, which can generalise, can stigmatise a population in our country? How will you continue to work with the Muslim Executive, who wants to work with the government today on the fight against radicalisation? I come to my final question, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u7	Mr Yüksel, you immediately used twice your speaking time. I give the floor to Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u8	Mr President, Minister, we have an estimated 800,000 citizens of the Muslim faith. 800,000 Belgians, the vast majority of whom work in our country, pay taxes and participate positively in the well-being of our society and in living together. Your statements last Saturday, pointing a finger at all of these 800,000 people, had the sole effect of stigmatizing them and excluding them from our national community. These are serious and far-reaching statements. Moreover, in order to make things very clear, if individuals are celebrating terrorist attacks, it is normal to question them and prosecute them. There's no question of putting your head in the sand. But, Minister, raising doubts about the whole of a community by declaring – I quote – that "a significant part of the Muslim community has danced following the attacks" is of a completely different magnitude. To stigmatize at this point, I imagine you must have solid facts and elements to share with us. You cannot, as you have done in the past 24 hours in the press, cut yourself behind a semantic discussion and the scope of the words "significant", "significant" or behind the confidential files of the National Security Council. It would not be up to the discussion that we have here and the values that are at stake. Therefore, Minister, we are asking you for facts, just facts. What do you mean by a significant part of the Muslim community? When you say these words at the Standaard last weekend, do you think of 5, 10, 15, 20%? What percentage do you have in mind? On the other hand, let's imagine that even 1% danced to celebrate the attacks: this makes 8,000 people. No events of such magnitude have been reported, either by the Belgian or international media. Do you have any specific information about such celebrations? If you cannot answer us with tangible facts, minister, you will have no choice but to offer your flat apology to our 800,000 Muslim compatriots.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u9	Minister, I too agree with the questions about your statements in De Standaard last Saturday. You then recorded in an interview: "A significant part of the Muslim community danced in response to the attacks." That phrase will often be repeated here. Over the last few days, there has been a wide public debate on this subject. It is useful for you to be able to clarify for Parliament. If it turns out that there have indeed been celebrations of these attacks, and I also assume, for the sake of clarity, that you are certainly aware of such facts, then that is a significant fact for us. It is the right and even the duty of politicians to name those facts. The Open Vld fraction certainly doesn't want to sweep it under the mat. It must also be possible to examine the facts and take action against them. But, of course, statements must always be based on hard facts and put in the right context. A handful of people who, for the time being, had two known incidents positive about the attacks, is actually a marginal phenomenon. We do not want to say, for the sake of clarity, that the phenomenon must be kept secret, quite the contrary. As far as we know, ISIS was supported here and there after the attacks in Zaventem and in Maalbeek. They are absolutely reprehensible to us too. In the vicinity of the Channel in the centre of Brussels on 22 March a small group of young people walked around chanting pro IS. Apparently some young people disturbed the minute silence for the commemoration of the victims at a school in Anderlecht. For Open Vld, it is impossible for a member of the government to generalise and thus insult an entire population. We will put it very simply, Minister. You must call a cat a cat, but you must be careful not to turn a mosquito into an elephant. Can you give an overview of the alleged facts that occurred in the aftermath of the attacks of 22 March? What solutions do you see for this sociological problem that is currently occurring in our society? That must be the most important question of politicians and of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u10	Mr Minister, you said, and I quote you in Dutch to avoid any ambiguity: "By significant deel van de moslimgemenschap dance naar aanleiding van de aanslagen." So you suggest that a significant part - 5%, 10%, 20%? - a community of more than 700,000 people welcomed the attacks. That is, tens or even hundreds of thousands of Muslims would have welcomed the heinous and cowardly murder of dozens of innocent people. Do we have to say again here that the state has failed? The state has not been able to prevent these terrible attacks. The State has not been able to protect citizens from these terrorists. Minister, either your remarks are in line with reality, and then the situation is dramatic and requires urgent action of an entirely different magnitude than those decided so far by the government, under pain of panic reactions in the population; or your remarks do not correspond to reality and then they are both scandalous and irresponsible, since they cast without nuance, without justification, the reproach on an important community in our country, which you, Minister, deliver to the people's vindiction. In the management of a state, and especially when there is a serious crisis, the quality of communication is essential. We cannot afford, when we have a political leader and even more, when we are the minister in charge of security, to say anything, to say it any way, under the penalty of generating chains of uncontrolled reactions caused by fear, panic and hatred. Nor can we announce disasters as you have done, without proposing measures to deal with them. The dissemination of information only makes sense in order to induce behaviour in the population, vigilance, evacuations, or to justify measures taken or to be taken, and here your small sentence does not belong to either. Minister, very clearly, yes or no, have people danced and celebrated the attacks? How much? Where? If what you say is true, what decisions, what strong steps have you taken? What have you decided with the government as a whole? If what you say is true, it is gravissimus and strong and urgent measures must be taken. If what you say does not correspond to reality, it is obviously a totally scandalous attitude on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u11	Minister, a significant part of the Muslim community danced as a result of the attacks, and those were street parties: those are the statements we are sitting here for today. Those claims are very serious. They would point out that there are people who are not only fond of the radical and extremist ideas of IS, but even have such a strong aversion to our society that they openly applaud the fact that our society is affected by bloody attacks. Mr Minister, because the facts you are raising are so serious, it seems logical to me that you should give us access to the facts or the evidence on which you base yourself, even behind closed doors. In which neighborhoods or streets was there partying or dancing? How many people were they talking about? You're talking about reports in the National Security Council. Can we get reports from that National Security Council? Can we get a look at pvs? Can we read reports? Can we get the administrative reports that indicate the facts? Mr Minister, I am asking you these specific questions because the facts you are talking about are serious. I am certainly not asking you to do that because we would not believe you or would like to hide or minimize anything. We strongly reject any behavior that would glorify the ideas of IS, let alone the attacks. That is unacceptable and must be followed up by the public prosecutor. I also ask you these specific questions because there has been some doubt about the facts you are talking about. Did they happen? I come to my most important question. Minister, I agree with you that we need to name serious matters, but we also need to address them. You say you got that intel and reports. What was your approach? What measures have you taken? What instructions did you give after you got that disturbing information? I look forward to your answer and I hope to get the necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u12	Mr President, Minister, Belgium is facing an unprecedented problem of terrorism. It is a period that requires all politicians and the population to unite and stand together. You're in charge of the country's security. You are the one who must fight terrorism with all the people and all the political actors. And what are you doing? We've been watching you since Charlie Hebdo. First of all, you attacked an entire commune, the population of Molenbeek. All the Molenbeeks had to be cleaned up. Then, it was an important part of the Muslim community that protected terrorists. Today, you're talking about cancer in the Muslim community. In your opinion, a significant part of the Muslim community would have danced after the terrorist attacks in Brussels. I join all those who asked you the question. What does "significant" mean? This means "important", "essential", "many". How much? Where? All questions were asked. Mr. Jambon, no blah-blah! Don't come and say, "I've been told." We're done with the blah-blah!We need facts. You're the minister of security, not provocation. You have no right to divide the Belgian population in a moment like this. You can't stir up hatred among the population, you can't raise people against an entire community. Two things one, either you prove what you're doing, or you apologize to this Muslim community. These people are part of our country. You can't insult people that way. This is unacceptable! A minister in office cannot afford such comments. Who are you? Are you imam or caliph to know who is Muslim in this country? How is it possible to define people as Muslims? Is it written on their foreheads or on their clothes? This is unacceptable! It is to introduce religiosity into the political sphere, into the public space. Let's talk about some citizens here or there, and that's where we introduce amalgam, because we talk about Muslims. This is shocking and unacceptable! In this regard, I would like to say that this type of policy cannot be practiced. Minister, how can you, as of today, fight the fight against terrorism and radicalism by dividing the Belgian population? It must stop, let these amalgams stop! If you have any facts to blame, act! You're the Minister of the Interior. You have responsibility for security. Stop throwing reproach at these people! I, too, and the Socialist Party group, are asking for facts. Just facts: places, people and significant elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u13	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it is not a debate on whether or not to name problems. Any statement of support for a terrorist act is too much and deserves harsh condemnation. What is the debate about? It is about how we want to live together in our country, about our role in it, about your role as Minister for the Interior and Security, about how we work on security and about the credibility of our institutions. We must all name problems, but we and you are not paid to increase problems. I wonder if the problems have not become even more difficult since your harsh statements. What's solved? Very little, I'm afraid. I see at least three problems, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. First and foremost, doubts have arisen about the cockpit of our national security, the National Security Council. You have stated in the media that there have been elements on the table at the National Security Council that clearly support your statements. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Security Council today suggest that you yourself have put those elements on the table. Around that element I expect facts, otherwise a not so clean game is played. Secondly, the damage to our country. We may disagree, but I love Belgium. I don't like to do Belgium bashing. At a time when Brusselsers are trying to rebuild their city and pick up the road again, when we are still reading today that the hospitality and tourism in Brussels has collapsed, anti-advertising is once again being made for our capital. I read in an American newspaper that our Deputy Prime Minister is being compared to Donald Trump. In the international media, a Belgian Deputy Prime Minister is compared with Donald Trump.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u14	Mr Calvo, can you ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u15	Thirdly, the need for unity and peace. There's that need. We are not getting this unit as a gift, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Today, we are all ministers of coexistence, you in particular. You are not only Minister of Security, you are also Minister of Collaboration. That's everyone's job. That is what we are paid for, to bring people closer together, to ensure unity and unity. The eight hundred thousand Muslims are also compatriots, to whom we must say that they are closer to us, to condemn with us the abuses and acts of terror. We must not push them further away from us. Your statements caused a lot of pain, on top of the scars after the attacks, on top of the scars after the riots at the Stock Exchange. The N-VA Group is trying to dismiss this as a failure diverse, a non-debate. I don't think so. I am pleased to note in the Chamber across the boundaries of majority and opposition that everyone is saddened by the spectacle of the past few days, not just the Ecolo Green Group, but not just the left-wing opposition. Everyone's asking questions. Mr Vice Prime Minister, you are the man who can provide answers. Make sure of that. I hope you will at least learn lessons from the past few days. In the past, you have struggled to find the right words. Finding the right words is very important at this time, especially as a Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u16	Mr President, Minister, with your comments in De Standaard, where you accuse a significant part of the Muslim community of having danced after the attacks, you are fuelling the fire. In doing so, and I am weighing my words, you are entering into the strategy of terrorists, which consists of dividing the population, of inciting hatred. That's what they're looking for, and unfortunately, obviously, that's what you're looking for, too. Minister, we'd like to have the evidence of what you're making. Your spokesman cites police sources, but he remains totally vague. De Morgen journalists, for example, contact all police services. There's nothing to confirm what you said. De Standaard analyses the six rumours mentioned. Four are false, one is totally next to the plaque, and there is still a rumor that two young people, apparently angry, would have shouted slogans, but at least not danced. So those two people who didn't dance would be that "significant" part of the Muslim community. What is the reality, minister, of the attitude of the Muslim community? First, there are Muslims among the victims of the attacks. They also assisted in the attacks on the metro and at the airport. They were also on the Stock Exchange in solidarity with the victims. They also denounced the attacks in front of television. It is that the imams expressed their solidarity and denounced the attacks. It's because they walked in Antwerp. That is the reality of the attitude of the "Muslim community", as you call it. You refuse to apologize, while you have agreed to do so following your unfortunate comparison. You're opting for a rather dubious justification, minister. You are telling us that this has been said to the National Security Council. Except obviously, the only one who told the National Security Council was you and no one else. And then there's the lie in the lie, since after that, you say you never used the word dancing, while the journalist who interviewed you confirms that you did it, while you even tweeted it seven times, and that you had the opportunity to read the interview again, that you did it. You also made similar comments in the Netherlands (where you did not speak of "dance", but of straatfeesten). Minister, I suspect you are the author of two lies. I'm waiting for the evidence. First, give us facts that show that there would be this significant support you are talking about! Second, prove to us that there have been dances or street parties! Thirdly, prove to us that you never used the word "dance" in the De Standaard interview!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u17	Minister, you made remarkable statements in the media and social media this weekend. You did say that a significant group of the Muslim community danced in response to the attacks. You have also repeated this on Twitter and it has subsequently become clear that you have made such statements earlier in the Netherlands, about festive Muslims. In any case, that gives the impression that, in your view, a large group of the Muslim community would actually have such sympathies, whereas in reality we see the opposite. Fortunately, after the attacks, everyone condemned those attacks. Also from the Muslim community, the rejection of terror was unconditional. We have seen them leave in the various marches, we have known them present on the various guards in Antwerp, Brussels, Mechelen, Lokeren and Hasselt. I am now mainly referring to places in Flanders. We saw them in Boom. They were present everywhere. That also makes sense, they are also just people, countrymen and lotterymen who have undergone the same. It is therefore only logical that they were also present. That is why your statements have surprised me a bit. What did you base yourself on to make those statements? You spoke yesterday, for example on VTM, of a police report. Would you give us that here, if necessary, behind closed doors? What exactly did you want to say? If you feel misunderstood, you should say the same. What did you want to say? I hope it is clear to you, Minister, that these statements for a large group from the Muslim community, for a significant group from the Muslim community, were very offensive and stigmatizing. Do you not also believe that this will further promote polarisation and that this will increase the gap rather than narrow it? However, we need everyone to tackle the terror. What actions do you intend to take to close this gap, to involve people more closely in tackling radicalisation? Let us be very clear, Minister. I'm not looking for a new polemic. If we all agree on one thing, it's that we shouldn't hide things. We can call them by name. I will support you in that. If there are problems with individual cases, with young or old, we should name them. If there are statements of support for IS or terrorism, then we cannot, then we must reject it and we must dare to tackle it hard. You have our support in that. However, name the issues correctly, without going along with everyone else. We need those people, too, we need everyone in the fight against terror. That's why I want to make a call. If we want to fight terror, if we want to work together, we must work primarily on connecting people rather than divisive ones. I hope, Minister, that we can count on your support for this. Then, of course, you can continue to count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u18	Mr President, statements of support to terrorists are very significant. Anyone who cheers on such horrible attacks, on so many innocent deaths and wounded, is one too many. We must distinguish between establishing and lamenting such behaviour, on the one hand, and stigmatizing or divisiveness, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing you can do today is to minimize such behaviour, by saying that one turns a mosquito into an elephant, or by only being upset by very large groups or on a large scale. The Minister's statements are not a disgrace. It is a shame that we do not know today how many people are cheering and that today we do not know who those cheerful people are. After all, from those who today regard the Muslim extremists as heroes, the new potential terrorists are recruited. The problem that is now finally being appointed by the Minister is not new. We have already experienced this after previous attacks. Also after the attacks of 22 March, policemen, firefighters and teachers reported positive reactions to those horrific attacks. Mr Kir, I have brought you a different quote, against which the Minister's statements are only small beer. This is a quote from the head of the PS cabinet of Prime Minister Vervoort of Brussels. They are not my words; I quote what he says literally on 11 April in the New York Times: Ninety percent of Muslim youths in Molenbeek and Schaerbeek call the IS terrorists heroes. Perhaps you could discuss with him in the same tone whether or not 90% is significant. Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago you all made tough statements. As a result of the attacks, everything had to be cleared without taboos. Today, however, you are more united, faster and fiercer to fight a minister who merely identifies the problems than you are in your fight against Muslim extremistism itself. The tone of the Committee of Inquiry, the Committee of Inquiry, has already been set. Mr. Secretary of State, naming the problems is one thing. We've been doing that for years, and you're finally doing it. I assume that you are doing so on the basis of a genuine and legitimate concern and not because a communication agency gives you that because of the polls. However, you are a minister, so you must not only name the issues, but also address them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u19	Mrs. Pas, can you finish your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u20	Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you in a very specific way what policy actions you will link to that legitimate concern. I have one more specific question. During the arrest of Abdeslam, a camera crew and policemen were pounded with stones and hijacked. Why weren't the amokmakers arrested at the time? Don't you think that there was a need to act at the time, that they should be arrested as well? The fans and sympathizers of a terrorist should at least be identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u21	Mr Minister, there is a reproach that I will not do to you: it is not to control your communication. I think you know very well what you're saying. In the same way that you knew very well what you were saying when you said that "the collaborators had their reasons"; that you knew very well what you were saying when you made this rather revealing comparison: by evoking the children of the Jewish community hidden by heroes and righteous people, you suggested that the actors of terrorism were also hidden in networks comparable to those that welcomed Jewish children. Today, you also know very well what you say when you suggest that a significant part of the Muslim community welcomed the terrorist attacks or attacked the law enforcement forces when the perpetrators of these acts were arrested. Your point is not that of a minister of the interior; your point is that of a propagandist; your point is to reach an electoral audience deliberately because you run behind the Vlaams Belang, because that is your concern. You will be unable to prove your words in a certain way, unless you come to tell us what everyone knows, just listen to the judicial authorities: of course, behind the perpetrators of the attacks there are organized networks that are probably more extensive than we think, but it does not represent the significant part of the Muslim community. I am going to make you a revelation: I agree with you, Minister, and I have a good source, perhaps even from the National Security Council - but do not ask me for the evidence - that it is especially in Antwerp that there is a significant part of the Muslim community that has rejoiced about what has happened. Free speech but don't ask me any more proof that you could prove your words, which are not those of a minister of the interior or of security, but of a minister who creates insecurity. It is in this that your words are shameful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u22	If no political group wishes to join, I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am somewhat surprised that the political debate has been about one word for days, the word'significant'. In my view, that means that we have to say'something', and much more there is no need to find out. For days now, it has been a question of what exactly is meant by "partying after terrorist attacks," "dancing," "joy cries" and "high fives" and where they have taken place. It's been about minutes and police reports for days now, how many there are, who has them, and whether they can surface. I will be clear on that immediately. I don't have a record. There are, but not many. What did you think? That I would list a whole series of facts very stigmatizingly here? A more stigmatizing approach would not be possible. I won't do that. I also wonder whether the questions about the minutes are the right ones. Are you saying that, as a minister, I can only tackle a problem or can only act if there are sufficient minutes? Everyone's a witness. Everyone knows that this has happened. Do we have to wait for a confirmation report before a phenomenon exists? Does that mean that I only have to act when a number of minutes have been reached? Has that been the case for domestic violence? We all know that every crime, in domestic violence, is not recorded in the minutes. Racism: should we act against racism only by following the minutes? Homophobia: should we act only in the number of minutes, otherwise the phenomenon "does not exist"? We agree that for all these forms of crime, there are dark numbers. They're not minutes. With regard to support for terrorism, there is also a dark number. I will not wait for the minutes to rain to act. Some of you have made insinuations. I asked the question myself to the National Security Council. I am a member of this Council and I can ask him questions. I can ask the security services to give me their opinion on the existence of the phenomena if rumors come to me. Within the National Security Council, several services have confirmed to me that these are not rumours or fictions, and that they have experienced these facts on the ground. In addition, as the minister with oversight over the police and firefighters, I have information from various sources, including relief and security services. They reported different incidents to me. Everyone knows that when Abdeslam was arrested, stones and empty bottles were thrown into law enforcement while they were picking up the most wanted terrorist in Western Europe. Everyone's seen that. Everyone has seen that Abdeslam has managed to hide for weeks. When I said for the first time that the man must have gotten support, I was wronged. And then the same terminology was used as it is now. I would stigmatize and divide. Once Abdeslam was arrested, everyone confirmed that there had to have been a lot of support to keep the man in hiding for so long. Suddenly it was the bon ton to say that. Several studies confirm sympathy for the terrorists. I refer to the scientific study of Bilal Benyaich. Another study also shows that Belgium is in the top three worldwide on support for IS and Arabic messages on social media, after Qatar and Pakistan. When I put all these facts together, I come to the conclusion that this is a phenomenon that we must do something about. I'm not just coming to that conclusion. I'm in the company of Professor Mark Elchardus, which I honestly didn't expect. It is difficult to say that it is a man of right-wing signature or anti-Muslim signature. Yesterday he developed the same theorem in De Morgen identically. Mr Kir, I would like to quote Mr Moureaux, you know: 'The extent of local solidarity with the terrorists has also surprised me.' I'm not going to cover my face, or practice ostrich politics. As a minister, it is precisely my duty and responsibility to identify this kind of phenomenon in our society. I have to name them and take action. We have to do it now. There's still time. We all have a choice. We can continue to discuss and philosophize on the term "significant", on the act of dancing, or on the number of minutes. But don't count on me to do this; I have something else to do as Minister of Security and Home Affairs! Of course, we must not stigmatize a whole community in this country. How many times do I have to repeat what I've repeated hundreds of times? In order to combat the problem of radicalism, we must cooperate with the Muslim community. I've said that a hundred times. You have all applauded, except Mrs Pas, when I addressed Mr Dewinter when he was waving the Koran. At that time, you all applauded. Who dares question that we must cooperate with the Muslim community? We must act now to win back the hearts of the people, the young people we have seen so busy. That is a question of regaining hearts from people who are turning away from our society. We have to win back those hearts. Even if there were only three of them, I am not saying that there are only three of them, then that still has to force us to take action to win them back. That is why I ask you, instead of having semantic discussions, to work together, while the problem is still manageable, while we can still get it under control, before we have to say, if it is too late, in two years' time, that we should have... I have always said that the fight against terrorism and violent extremism is not just about purely repressive measures. You can't do that at all. For the preventive part, the Plan R is designed to detect radicalisation at an early stage so that appropriate and timely action can be taken. We updated that plan last year, as part of a first series of measures taken by the government after the attack on Charlie Hebdo, the Jewish supermarket and after the anti-terrorist action in Verviers in January 2015. In this plan, we are working with the Communities to tackle radicalisation before it derails. I repeat, we must regain the hearts of those young people and bring them back into our society. There is, of course, a huge amount of work to be done. We must find these solutions together. We need to see together that we can get these problems under control. I therefore call on all of you to work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u24	Mr Minister, I shall give the floor again to the members of the committee for the replies. I repeat that Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure requires a reply of two minutes per person. I shall give the first word again to Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u25	Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. In order to respond to such horrible facts, I don't need a police report. It could be. In politics and in life, however, there is a need for facts. When you say that a lot of people are sympathetic to and expressing sympathy for terrorist acts, you should also be able to show the facts. We do politics on the basis of facts and not on the basis of rumours or hearsays. Especially when it comes to security, that is an incredibly important matter. Minister, I am not reassured that, in your capacity as Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for the security of all citizens, you do not need a report. Minister, that does not mean that we should be doing ostrich politics. Nor does that mean that we should not name the problems. This does not mean that we should not tackle the problems. The current government has done the same in recent weeks and months, with the Terror Commission and with the measures taken here in Parliament. Minister, I am pleased that you note that you do not want to stigmatise and that you also indicate that you wanted to name the problem with your statements. Today many compatriots, including many Muslim citizens, have a lot of questions. They have questions about our security and our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u26	Mr Yüksel, your speaking time is up. Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u27	Mr President, I will conclude. Minister, in such a climate, it is particularly dangerous to contribute to the perception that a large group of Muslims support terrorists or welcome their crimes. We all agree: we will fight terrorism and radicalism together and we will have to eradicate together. I call upon you to continue in that thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u28	Minister, you will not be surprised to learn that your answers have not convinced me. Of course, I agree with you when you say that, yes, there are problems, yes, you have to name them, yes, you have to find an answer together and fight terrorism in a strong and effective way. But to identify a problem, you have to be able to analyze it. And to analyze it, there's nothing to do, you need facts and figures. That's where I'm sorry for your answer. This is not a matter of minutes. At some point, when you make statements, you have to be able to combine figures, otherwise it is impossible to analyze the problem and therefore take action to remedy it. The second point, which is probably the most fundamental, is that the Muslim community, in its vast majority, is an ally in all the problems you point out today. Instead of stigmatizing her by these statements, instead of repelling her, dividing her and dividing us between Belgians, realize that she is your first ally! It is also against the young people who throw stones in the neighborhoods against the police. She's also against Daesh's supporters. The vast majority of the Muslim community is at our side in this fight. Instead of rejecting it, instead of creating walls, build bridges with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u29	Minister, you may, of course, put your finger on the wound. You need to put the finger on the wound. Facts have been mentioned and known. For Open Vld they are also of course reprehensible facts. For our group, these facts cannot and must not be ignored. There must certainly be a response from the policy. It must be possible to designate, but one cannot generalize and stigmatise, as you yourself said. A Deputy Prime Minister should, of course, be very aware of the impact of his words on a population group. Surely it is not logical that three days should be allocated to clarify the context of a ruling? Such statements distract attention from the hard work that you, this government and the people are doing on the ground to take action and to seek solutions to problems of radicalisation and violent extremism as soon as possible. Again, we are of course your partner in the search for solutions. You also have the full support of our group for the recovery of hearts, as you yourself have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u30	Minister, yes, there are phenomena of radicalisation. Yes, there was most likely complicity. Yes, of course, everyone saw him, police officers were shaken by people during some operations, especially during the arrest of Salah Abdeslam. But no, Minister, a significant part of the Muslim community did not dance or celebrate the attacks. Your remarks were free of charge. They were there to stir up hatred. Minister, I have seen many Muslims mourn victims among their relatives, among their acquaintances. I have seen many Muslims also come to the aid of victims, directly at the time of the attacks. Your job as Minister of Security and Home Affairs is to protect citizens. Your job is to act. Your job is not to say anything, no matter how. Your job is not to talk about amalgam and stigmatization of the entire Muslim community. In the background, it only surprises me half because I have not forgotten that behind the Federal Minister of the Interior is a disciple of Bart De Wever who, as a good populist leader, has made himself a speciality to say all that is possible to say to seduce the electorate of Vlaams Belang.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u31	Minister, I had asked two questions and I must feel disappointed twice about the answers. My first question was about the facts and the facts. You have given only a fragmentary list, you do not take us seriously and you have not given an overview of all the things that led you to those statements. Secondly, I would also like to refer to your quote. If I get my head straight, there's a phenomenon, we have to do something about it, you just said. But what have you done since you named these phenomena, these things? A minister must unite, a minister must be minister for the whole of society and offer solutions. He can't just name things fragmentary and stigmatize people. I should like to conclude by referring to a proverb that you have often used, that one should not stick one's head in the sand. Well, you cannot do that in your answers, but you cannot do that when it comes to finding solutions, where people are not allowed to stand up to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u32	Mr. President, what can I say? Mr Jambon has hardly said anything, except to create a diversion. We're talking oral or written rumors. And all that would be a phenomenon! There is nothing: no fact or place. When Mr. Jambon said he wasn't going to stigmatize...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u33	There's nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u34	Niks, niks!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u35	Mr Kir has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u36	Mr President, thank you. When Mr Jambon says, "I'm not going to stigmatize," no one believes him. The question I'm asking myself right now is: when will the next time happen? When will it still stigmatize this population? Mr Jambon, you did not answer my second question. Why do you talk about Muslims all the time in a particular situation? You know they are? Did they tell you they were? Why are you constantly attacking them? Answer me! You did not explain on what basis you determined that someone was Muslim. Who's telling you? But it's important! We're talking about 800,000 people you've been stigmatizing for weeks and even months. [[Brouhahaha]] [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u37	Cela vous embarrasse, hein? You talk a lot, ma'am. Put yourself in the place of those people who are as sad as you! They have their hands on their hearts and have been gathered on the Stock Exchange. People of Muslim faith also lost their lives in these attacks. (...): No one denies it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u38	Yes, since you interrupted me. Mr President, when it is said that it is semantics to choose the right terms, I find it quite shocking. Young people may have rejoiced at these events – no one can support the opposite – but words are important. Instead of apologizing or, at the very least, regret, you persist. You maintain this idea that a "significant part of the Muslim community celebrated" after the attacks. How are you going, starting today, to bring society together? I learn from the information that you will meet, with the Prime Minister, the representatives of the various cults. Do you think you have the confidence of the Muslim community after your words? Try, Minister, to appease this country! In the name of the fight we must all fight against terrorism, we must come together and not divide the population. As I speak to you, I am not convinced by Mr Jambon's answers. I'm waiting for him to make a clear gesture towards this community that has been offended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u39	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I note that you are afraid to name the problems. You do not know how to justify your statements, and I regret that. Your dossier is actually thinner and an important and sensitive debate like this really deserves better. You confirm that you yourself have put rumors on the agenda of the National Security Council. You then call upon the same Security Council to support your political statements. Mr De Roover, I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure provide that you can also simply take the floor. So you don't have to cheer or protest. You could have just spoken. I believe that we share the view that there is a problem and a phenomenon which deserves more attention than in the past. You would have been more credible in your problem situation if you had announced additional actions. A minister is not a minister of problems, a minister has to offer solutions. I share your conviction when you say we must conquer the hearts. Allow me to say that you have a very special strategy to conquer hearts. In recent days, you have pushed people away from you and reduced confidence in our country's institutions. That's the real problem! That is the tragedy of the past few days! I repeat what I said in my question. You're the Minister of Security. We are all, including Members of Parliament and local politicians, ministers of coexistence. I regret that, as one of the captains of our country, you are making your mission, which is already very difficult in any case, even more difficult. I really want to ask you to recapture and think even better about your words from now on, because every word of every politician counts today. There's enough scars. The unity and solidarity we must show will not be given as a gift. Mr Jambon, please work with us on this. You will find an ally in us if you do so in a correct way for all compatriots, including those with a different color or religious background.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u40	Mr Minister, if I used your procedures, I could say that a significant part of the government is lying. Anyway, you lied twice. You lied when you said "everyone knows." No, not everyone knows! On the contrary, everyone is asking you for proof of what you have advanced in De Standaard. You do not advance this evidence and you even assume that you do not advance it! You lied by accusing a journalist of distorting your words, but you couldn't prove the opposite! Minister, if I used your methods, I could also say that a significant part of the N-VA is racist! Somewhere, your lies are more serious than Mrs. Galant's. I'm not talking about her failings, although we could talk about your failings. I would remind you that you resigned at some point! Your lies are more serious than Mrs Galant's because she was lying to defend herself, but you lie on the basis of a hate strategy, a consciously constructed strategy. Minister, in conclusion, I find it unworthy of a minister, but also of anyone, to surf tragic events such as the attacks to spread this racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u41	Mr Minister, I would like to repeat quite clearly what I said earlier. For us, any form of sympathy or support for terror is too much. Each case is one too many for us. So no, you don't have to wait until you have a stack of minutes before you can do anything. If there are facts that you can clearly describe, if you know very clearly where statements of support have taken place, where bottles have been thrown or whatever, then you should do so, and we should do so as soon as possible. That's not the point. We don't have a disagreement about that. We all agree that we should not bury things away, that we should name them and name them. What matters, what is the point, is that we would like to ask you to be careful in your discourse, in what you say and how you say it. Don't shave everyone over the same comb. If you don't want to do that, you shouldn't, not even with words. Now you are stigmatizing a large group. You don't realize how much you hurt those people, when you seem to have the intention of conquering hearts. Now, through that discourse you do not win hearts, but lose hearts by the flesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u42	Minister, I have not received any answers to my questions. Everyone saw that stones and bottles were thrown at the arrest of Abdeslam. Everyone has also been able to see on the same images that all amokmakers were left alone. My question was specifically why they weren't stopped. Why at least weren't they identified? What measures will you take to tackle the problem that you have finally identified? I did not get an answer to that, just words. We do not expect that from a minister, we must also act against it. You say there's still time to get the problem under control, but how will you do that? I would have liked an answer to that. Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear you so busy here, you must all be given facts and figures to try to deny phenomena that occur today, in order to deny the light of the sun to this day. Let me add a few facts and figures that might convince you. In Germany, the number of tweets about IS has been investigated on the social media. The highest number of positive tweets from Europe comes from Belgium. Worldwide, we must only let Qatar and Pakistan lead the way. That's significant. That's a phenomenon. The fact that we are here in Belgium in proportion to the number of jihadists, 41 per million inhabitants, the double of France, the triple of the Netherlands: yes, that is a phenomenon, yes, that is significant. We have a breeding pond of Muslim extremism. We've been suing that for years. You continue the tradition and continue to shoot at the messenger instead of dealing with the problem at its root. Of course, it only goes from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u43	Minister, your answer confirmed what I thought, that intellectual rigor is not your strength! Fortunately, in that country, in a rule of law, the control of criminal proceedings and prosecution is not a matter for the executive but for the judiciary. I would like to say that, fortunately, there is the rigour of the judicial authorities, the federal prosecutor's office and the remarkable work of the police services to at least target those who must be, not an indistinct public. Luckily! Otherwise, there would be no concrete results in the fight against terrorism! In short, your remarks will not even obscure the effectiveness of the police and justice services that they, working under the authority of the magistrates, which is a guarantee in this country. For the rest, Minister, there are some cases that fall within your jurisdiction: the Galant case, the airport security file that is not completed. I trust that the Committee of Inquiry will try to find out whether Mrs Galant was the only one in the government who was properly informed of certain reports from the European Commission. I think you're going to be subject to a fire of questions. I advise you to prepare your argument otherwise than you did today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u44	Minister, I did not sign up for the first round, not because of lack of inspiration or distraction, but because I wanted to listen to you first before making some thoughts. After listening carefully, I still think that, without a doubt, it would have been better to choose more appropriate words to deliver your message in order to avoid the exploitation of certain amalgams. Beyond certain questions that I think are legitimate, beyond certain postures that sometimes seem to me to be theatrical - gentlemen of the PTB, your remarks are not significant either - there is still concern. However, I do not think that the population needs this concern. The population needs to be reassured. It is therefore necessary to avoid anything that may give rise to concern among our people. Should we, however, be in denial? It's obvious that no. And, probably like many of you here, I don't think everyone is in fiction. There are people among the Belgian population to rejoice at our misfortune, our great misfortune. But, in my opinion, what is stupid is to try to make a census of it, to try to count it. A few days ago, in my commune, I asked the police if we had any reports of phenomena. I was told no. I asked the same thing for the prevention services, it was answered that no. Do I, however, conclude that nothing is happening and that everyone is on the same wavelength as me? No, of course not! I don't have that naivety. I don't have that simplistic reasoning. As others have already said, minister, we cannot reject everything in what you are expressing. In fact, I think that in the opposition parties, some do not reject everything either. I don't think we should accept everything either. But beyond that, cannot we now get to the bottom quickly, because that is what the population expects of us. As the Prime Minister has said in receiving representatives of recognized cults and secularism, we must fight against anything that can lead to an identity retreat and also fight, not against, but for anything that can bring us closer together and lead us to defend our common values. This is the message I wanted to deliver and I have no question to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u45	Mr President, I do not have any questions about the ruling, but I do have questions about the question here today. Do we always have to deny sunlight in a politically correct way? Let me rephrase my question. Isn't there, or isn't there a significant group of young people who are ruining it for all of us here today? Yes or no? That's a very simple question. When we speak to the people in the field, to the people who were responsible for the arrest of Abdeslam, to whose combi was pushed and pulled and who were treated with stones, is that not significant? Isn't that significant? If, after the attacks of 22 March, which we have been through and which we hope we will never have to see again, people are shouting balls and yes, is that significant? Is that significant? We read in the newspaper yesterday that in Mechelen street workers, who were re-establishing the pavement on their bare knees, were threatened by a group of young people who said: 'Wait, IS is coming to behead you all.' Isn't that significant? Is that significant or should we call that a mosquito? Are we just supposed to hug that to death? Mr President, if you ask me, that is a sort of tumultuous situation in our society. In the case of a malignant tumor, there are two possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u46	Mr. President, I can just say this...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u47	I call Mr Metsu.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u48	One can deny and deny an evil tumultuous silence until the time when this tumult can prevail and become the boss of society, or one can effectively do something about it. One can go into treatment and do what the minister proposes and try to win back those hearts. Are we targeting one particular target group? Absolutely yes. We aim our arrows at those who glorify terror and ISIS. That is the target group and those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u49	Colleagues, I know that the fact that I'm talking bothers you. I would just like to say that what Mr Metsu has presented is facts. I don't have a problem hearing facts. And, as many of us have said, we must act against the facts. But in this case, no facts of individuals who danced were presented by the minister. Calm down! It's not because there are many of you that you're going to intimidate me. It is not because there are many of you that you are impressive. (...): They speak the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure. After the replies, the incident will be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u51	I have a question about a significant incident in Antwerp. This is not about a significant part of the Antwerp police force, because I would be making a mistake. My question dates back a month ago, when it became known that a number of Antwerp police officers would be involved in very serious facts. Meanwhile, arrests were also made in the case. We expect the greatest integrity from the police and there must be no doubt about their integrity. We have been informed that an internal investigation into the facts has been under way for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u52	May I ask the people of the press to leave the room if they're only here to have an interview? Then we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u53	That internal investigation led to the arrest of a number of police officers. Mr Minister, could you clarify the facts that are being charged to them? How could it have come to this? That's actually the most important question. What measures have been taken and can still be taken to avoid and detect such cases in time? Will you have yourself investigated the possible abuses in the Antwerp Corps by the AIG or the P Committee? I believe that a review of disciplinary law is urgently needed. What's the status? You announced a draft law on this a while ago. When can we expect this draft law to be discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u54	At least five members of the Antwerp police are suspected of blackmailing, robbing and molesting illegal refugees for years. Those are hard facts. Apparently there are subcultures in the Antwerp police force in which these kinds of abuses occur and they also manage to escape control for a long time. The fact that the gang even had a name shows that the facts had been known for a long time and that it was also discussed in the corps. The organisation of the police should ensure that whistleblowers dare to prosecute such abuses more quickly. We find that in training at the police school aspirants get sixteen hours of deontology: eight hours of police code and eight hours of practice. Nevertheless, corpses are still too often closed bastions. After consultation between the police and the police, it was decided that the facts will be investigated by the police department. As we understand, this service consists of thirteen operational police officers, actually fellow officers of the officers involved. This method may be used as proof that the Antwerp police themselves are able to expose painful facts and to investigate them thoroughly, as Mr De Wever also said. First of all, do you think police training is enough to arm cops against abuse of power? Do you see room for improvement in the field of deontology within police training? Secondly, do you think that the research could not be better outsourced to the Surveys department of the P Committee, which was set up specifically for such matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u55	Minister, my question dates from a few weeks ago. It's about a significant fact by the Antwerp police. It came to light that a number of young members of the Antwerp local police are suspected of a number of corrupt activities. It would be young inspectors from the district office on the Handelstraat. The facts that are being charged to them are no less. It would be gang extortion, theft by force, labor incompetence. They would, among other things, have subjected people in a precarious situation to random checks and then beat them and robbed them of their possessions. There has been an internal investigation for several months. That has ensured the effective arrest of the policemen. After consultation between the police and the police, it was decided that the facts will be investigated by the Police Department. Those are co-workers of the suspect police officers. We do not doubt the expertise of these services, but we have questions about how they work. What facts are we talking about right now? What are they being charged with? Will you ask the Permanent Supervisory Committee to have a monitoring inquiry conducted by the P Committee, with ongoing doubts about police action and the use of capacity in the reference framework for community-oriented police care? Thirdly, we stress that it is important not only to focus on the perpetrators, but also on the victims. One option is that the victims contact the urban ombudswoman if they do not dare to register with the police. Do you support the proposal? Do you yourself make available channels where victims can deal with their complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u56	I would first like to make two general comments. Firstly, two questions have been asked: if we have an investigation carried out by the AIG, we shall have fellow Members assessing each other. That is a fundamental point. If so, the AIG must be abolished. My experience is that the AIG is often stricter for colleagues than other services. One must therefore be careful with such a remark. In practice, I think that my fellow Members can best assess what can and cannot be deontologically. I should therefore like to warn against such statements about fellow Members who judge Members of this House. When is someone a colleague in an organization with 40,000 policemen? One can be a colleague by working in the same service. One can be a colleague by wearing the same uniform, while one is in Arlen and the other in Ostend. In the two cases one is fellow Members. I'm a defender of the AIG. I don't want to question that service. One has to see who is doing the research in what circumstances. Secondly, the judicial investigation is still ongoing. I can't give you any information about the trial. I can't say anything about that, because the investigation is classified. I assume that we will discuss this when the investigation is completed. Mrs Lanjri, Mr Top, I cannot therefore answer your question at this stage of the investigation. Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Gabriels, the research will, of course, show what happened and how that happened. Integrity is already part of both basic and continuing training. This is therefore at several times in the training package of the police. In addition to this training, it is of course important that integrity in the workplace is at the forefront. One can train people perfectly, but if culture in the workplace is different, then the training has a small influence. What do we mean by integrity in the workplace? This concerns knowledge about human rights and its application, the deontological code and the dilemma training. Training in this field is always carried out in close cooperation with the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre Unia. So it's not the police that trains the police; Unia takes care of that part. I can only repeat what the local police authorities and the police summit have stated as a result of the event. They have clearly indicated that the local police of Antwerp is committed to the integrity of its police officers and that it will continue to invest in them. They have also reported that the importance of acting with integrity through different ways is constantly brought to the attention of staff. This is done by making structural changes to the processes within the Antwerp Corps, for example by focusing on the selection and recruitment process, by creating a hotline, by a awareness campaign on integrity via posters and through the annual calendar, by clarifying guidelines through corps notes and by establishing a network accessible to all staff. I can go into all those points in more detail, but that would lead us too far. I would like to dwell on the initiatives concerning selection and recruitment, as well as on the hotline and complaint handling and on a number of supporting actions. In the selection and recruitment process, the following issues were implemented in terms of integrity. Firstly, taking a personality test which, on the one hand, indicates to what extent the candidate is prepared to respect organizational rules and, on the other hand, to what extent he is prepared to appeal to others for non-intentive behaviour. The aim of this is, of course, to give direction to the interview. Secondly, this test is for all candidates entering through external mobility or recruitment, and for internal services where there is a higher risk of integrity breach. Thirdly, all candidates are also faced with a dilemma and a deontological case. Fourthly, there is also a tailor-made training for the jurors. The jurors are also trained to perform the integrity analysis of the candidate police officers. A hotline Integrity has been set up in the Antwerp Corps, where employees within the organisation can easily report integrity violations via their own channel. It is also possible to ask for more information about the procedure in itself via this hotline. A network Integrity was established with a dual structure, the network on one side and a core group on the other. The network was launched in 2015. Its aim is to promote the integrity of the organisation as a whole and the integrity of the individual staff. This shall be done, inter alia, by promoting the exchange of information on integrity, the discussion within the Corps of issues related to integrity, the detection of integrity risks and the making of better proposals. The core group is a support committee composed on the basis of expertise. This small group consists of key integrity representatives. We are thinking of a lawyer, the coordinator, the director of HRM, the head of the department Quality and so on. In the field of communication, a poster campaign drew attention to integrity within the corps. The guiding principle is: "Integrity is the right thing to do, even when no one is looking." The fact that, despite all these measures, there were still very serious cases and accusations, is, of course, deeply regretted, including by myself. We must never lose sight of the fact that the vast majority of police officers act correctly and with integrity every day. Those facts can only be linked to a few. They are, of course, putting the name of their corps in a bad light. The AIG is currently conducting the necessary investigations. There is also, of course, the judicial investigation. I wish to await the results before I can and may comment on them. I indicated that after the complex dossier on the end-of-life system and its roll-out, I will focus on simplifying the disciplinary regime. The aim is to achieve a greater and, above all, more harmonizing role for the Disciplinary Board. That would mean limiting the mayor's role. Now the mayor often has to judge disciplinary matters that he has little knowledge of. The dossier has started and we must achieve results before the summer. Victims may lodge a complaint along the usual routes, either through the police or with the investigating judge. On the other hand, the ombudswoman has no powers in criminal matters. The same applies when another external hotline is organised. Citizens and other external stakeholders can report their complaint to the Complaints Management department via three channels: e-mail, e-mail and telephone. The local police of Antwerp informs me that the complaints within the corps have been investigated in a very serious manner and that the necessary measures will be taken if necessary. If the complaints involve criminal offences, it is, of course, the judicial authorities that take the lead in the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u57	Minister, we understand, of course, that you are not yet able to say much, as the investigation is still ongoing. I am asking my question about the events in Antwerp mainly to prevent them from happening again in the future or from happening elsewhere. We cannot say that Antwerp is better or worse than any other place. It is more about drawing conclusions. It's a good thing you're getting the investigation vetted by the AIG. I expect we can discuss the results and conclusions here as soon as they are available. Then we can see what can be generalized. You're also in charge of disciplinary justice. We've been waiting a long time for that. We're gonna make sure it gets there before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u58	The P Committee will also carry out an investigation, but it is awaiting the conclusion of the judicial inquiry, so as not to interfere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u59	I think it is very good that this is also being examined by the P Committee and that we should draw conclusions from this in order to avoid this repeating itself in Antwerp or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. Apparently, there are a lot of possibilities and structures have been set up. The question remains why it is not used earlier. Apparently, it's a good thing to be called a snitch. For the rest, we are certainly not in favour of the abolition of police inspection services. We really rely on these people to deliver expert work. The question is, as you yourself say, how close one is to someone within a corps. The police force is very large. The P Committee shall consist, in a manner of speaking, of police officers. Then I come to the adaptation of disciplinary rules and the role of the mayor in them. There's a lot of gaps out there. The consequences of certain disciplinary measures must certainly also be considered. We are curious about the result of the adjustment of disciplinary law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u61	Minister, I also agree with the answer you have given on the AIG. Let us be clear that there is no doubt in our minds about the AIG. The only question to be asked is who is conducting the research and how close the researcher is to the researcher. That's the only question we're asking. Secondly, as long as the investigation is ongoing, we cannot understand the facts that are being charged, which is correct. You say that after the judicial investigation, the P Committee will deal with this further and that this will allow an evaluation to be carried out in order to avoid such cases in the future. You have mentioned other alternatives to give victims the opportunity to make their complaint, next to the point of contact with the police. That's good. I have two comments to make. First of all, if one is the victim of such acts, committed by people in the corps, the point of contact with the police is very difficult. I am therefore a little hungry with my suggestion that the Ombudsman should take note of this in an urban environment, the largest city in Flanders. Without knowing the exact facts or the internal functioning, should it not be a first point of contact or be allowed to act in that capacity? It would be a bridge to the victims to give them an easier way to make their complaints known.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u62	Mr President, Minister, you know that the aid areas have been set up. A number of problems remain. However, a great deal of work is being done on the ground. The larger areas of assistance will help to ensure basic safety in a better way. As a result, you are reviewing the mission of Civil Protection. You have a draft decision ready and I am concerned about that. I am referring specifically to the purchase or not of drones by relief zones. In my own area I hear that this is being done because it is felt that the use of drones in certain safety situations can be very useful. I read in Article 3 of your draft decision that the zones are not allowed to purchase the resources for specialised technical assistance in this respect in column 2 of Annex 1 to this Decision. That Annex lists, inter alia, the drones. I think this would be a bad decision. It is about acute situations where drone deployment can be very important and useful. If we wait until civil protection is on the ground, a great deal of time will be wasted. Minister, I have a very simple question. I assume that the draft decision is still subject to amendment and that you will take account of the opinions on this matter. I call upon you to take care of not too much patronizing of the federal government. If fire zones consider it useful to ensure the safety of citizens through the purchase of a drone, please let them do the same. Are you prepared to allow the rescue sun to purchase such drones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u63	My answer is yes, but I wouldn't do you any good if I didn't. What is the purpose of the KB to which you refer? The tasks of Civil Protection will in future be super-specialised or long-term in time. This responsibility cannot be placed on the aid zones in the sense that they cannot be obliged to comply with them. This obligation is assumed by civil protection. Those two services are therefore complementary. Within Civil Protection, some experience with drones has been built up for two years. Civilian Protection is now offering this experience to the relief zones. This year we will make a second drone available through civil protection. Drones are indeed not so expensive in buying, but one should not overlook the global operational costs, including the training of people, at times when most aid zones come to tell me that they have money problems. We thought we were going to help them by letting Civilian Protection do those things. However, I am realistic enough to understand that drones, in many circumstances, you have those that may be useful just described. So I am absolutely prepared to adjust the design of KB in such a way that those areas that wish to invest in it could also do so and perhaps use the experience of Civil Protection in the procurement process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Last weekend the Daydream festival was organized in my city. Civil Protection was there with her drone. The results were excellent, but they were an event that had been announced a long time in advance. My question was also about acute situations, but I welcome your answer that areas of assistance that wish to do so will have the opportunity to make that purchase and train their own staff. Areas that do not wish to do so can continue to benefit from Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u65	Mr Minister, in the debate on the essential tasks of the police and the optimisation of police missions, I would like to have your opinion on a legal provision which leaves a large part to interpretation. Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act provides that a regulation on the collection of compensation for administrative police tasks of the local police may be agreed upon. In other words, at private events such as concerts, football matches, etc., the legislation provides for the possibility of alternative financing, which would allow the invoicing of police engagement to event organizers. So my questions are as follows. What future do you intend to set aside for section 90 of the Integrated Police Act? Are you considering incorporating this legal provision into the plan to privatize certain police tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u66	Mrs Ben Hamou, pursuant to Article 90 of the Law of 7 December 1998, the King regulates the conditions and modalities of the remuneration which may be claimed for administrative police missions performed by the local police. The objective of establishing the regulatory framework called for by the law is not reflected in our government agreement. In the context of the debate on the essential tasks of the police, the Government has adopted 20 measures. One of them is the optimisation of the commitment of private guarding for the monitoring of critical points, specific areas or at certain events. The operationalization of this measure may have an impact on missions that could have been within the scope of section 90 of the Integrated Police Act. We will have a more precise view of it after making the amendments to the law regulating private security. Before that, it is not appropriate to take a position. As you know, we are also preparing a private security bill. Before the summer, I will come and present this law to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u67	Thank you for those answers, Minister. I asked this question for information. So I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 10308 was postponed. Questions Nos 10349 by Mrs Jadin and 10508 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u69	Mr Minister, the European Commission recently issued its eighth semi-annual report on the functioning of the Schengen area. This report differs from the previous ones in that the Commission wanted to focus on recent events which have had a significant effect on the functioning of the Schengen area, namely the migration crisis and the terrorist threat. This report covers the period from 1 May to 10 December 2015, the period during which the Paris attacks were prepared and perpetrated. The assessment made with regard to Belgium is not tender. I quote: "The main difficulty faced by Belgium in border management is the ability to manage the situation at its air borders, secondary movements on its territory and irregular migration to the United Kingdom via the North Sea. The shortcomings identified relate to the lack of resources and the incorrect execution of border controls. Some important instruments, such as the national integrated border management strategy and the API system, have not yet been implemented. Furthermore, Belgium does not have national legislation or procedures to deal with alerts in the second generation SIS, nor does it have a mandatory security framework for the system. In addition, serious shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of SIS for end-users. The Commission services are currently working on the Council's proposals for recommendations on visits to Belgium." Minister, you will admit that these are particularly harsh comments. I've been through this report. Other countries are the subject of observations, but no country is the subject of as severe observations as Belgium. This report is very recent. It has also been the subject of recommendations that can easily be found on the National Assembly website, but not here. No fewer than 31 recommendations are addressed to Belgium. I repeat, these are recommendations on the control of our borders, on how we inject information into the SIS. Minister, have you read this report? What can you answer to the remarks made against Belgium? What measures will you put in place to take into account the recommendations made by the European Commission and to ensure that a response is provided to what the Commission considers to be serious shortcomings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u70	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, I am naturally well aware of this report. He refers to several points in our Schengen assessments. This is a large-scale audit to be carried out every five years to examine whether the Schengen States are applying the acquis correctly in practice. All countries are assessed and all aspects of Schengen are analysed. Belgium was evaluated in spring 2015, almost a year ago. On the basis of these assessments, recommendations were made which obtained the approval of the Council of Ministers of the Interior and Justice of the European Union. All critical points will have to be included in an action plan which will also be submitted to the Council and the Commission. My services are working on it right now. A number of recommendations have already been implemented. I am thinking in particular of border surveillance, an area in which significant progress has been made. Our obligation is therefore to prepare a response for the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u71	Mr Minister, this report has gone a little unnoticed in Belgium but has been circulated. It can be easily found on the Internet and on the website of the French National Assembly Commission. I would like you to come and explain to us the main elements of your action plan. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss it again. These are hard words and conclusions that are serious about border control. A whole series of elements are presented and I would like you to be able to answer us in a precise way on all the points put forward, in particular on deficiencies in SIS banking, on alerts in the second generation SIS system, on legislative shortcomings, on the lack of a national procedure and other elements which are in this report. It is important that we be reassured that you will take appropriate initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u72	Mr Dallemagne, I am quite prepared, once the report is ready to be sent or sent to the European Council, to inform you here, preferably in camera, because it is not useful to disclose how border controls are organised. However, I can ask my services to organise an information session for the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u73	Minister, I fully share your concern. What has bothered me in this case is that I have seen that a parliament other than the Belgian Parliament has been seized of the recommendations which were addressed to Belgium. I found it a little curious that this document is circulating in another parliament and that our Parliament is not informed. As for the question of in camera, you will see the nature of the information that will not have to be published, but I think that Parliament must be seized of it. Mr. Chair, could you take note of the Minister's reactions, which I take note of? This is a very important report, a very important, very broad audit. This is about the security of our borders. I think it would be good if we were informed of the Minister's and the government's response to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u74	Mr Minister, in the written presentation of my oral question you will find a long description, but I will confine myself to a number of quotes. I also refer to my written questions on this matter, both to you and to Minister De Block. I refer to the Law of 8 July 1964, which defines urgent medical care: 'The immediate provision of appropriate assistance to persons whose health status as a result of an accident, a sudden illness or a sudden entanglement of a disease requires urgent intervention'. Article 2 2° of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 establishing the orders of the emergency services that can be recovered and those who are free of charge provide that technical assistance work is free of charge, provided that they are linked to an emergency call to protect or rescue people. It is therefore not possible to charge the aid when it is carried out in the context of urgent medical care, as it says literally. However, there are areas of assistance which incur additional costs by distinguishing between technical tasks and logistical services. The strange thing is that, for example, opening a door to someone who may be in need is regarded as a technical task, which is carried out free of charge in accordance with the above mentioned KB, while additional assistance to ambulances is considered as imputable logistical support. In this way, patients will be charged additional costs and invoices. The West Flemish Provincial Intermutualist College described this problem in a letter addressed to you. I myself have asked questions about this before. I'm quoting a piece of your answer to the College. You say that certain technical assistance may be charged and that it may be described in the fee rules. That's not a problem. At the very end you write: "The zones are competent to accept their fees for the interventions of the fire department. They will thus, like the municipalities, be able to decide whether or not to report through a fee regulation. Except in cases requiring objective urgent medical intervention, technical assistance may indeed be the subject of a fee regulation. However, certain areas still violate this and continue to charge the objective urgent medical intervention. That's been dragging on for over a year and a half. In what way do you intend to act against the various areas of aid that break the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u75	Mr Top, I am currently aware of the problem in one area. As you have rightly said, assistance from the fire department for emergency medical aid interventions should be regarded as a technical assistance work. When it comes to an emergency call to protect or rescue people, those technical assistance work must be carried out free of charge. This is the case for emergency medical assistance. I replied to a question from the Intermutualist College of West Flanders. I will write to the area concerned to point out that billing assistance to the ambulance in the event of an urgent intervention in the context of urgent medical assistance is in breach of the rules. There is also administrative supervision. This can be done both by myself and by the provincial governor. If the fee regulations of the zone provide that the technical support of the ambulance is invoiced in the context of urgent medical assistance, I or the provincial governor may act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It confirms that urgent medical care is free of charge. That's for sure. I'm not gonna rat out the other zones. I can only do that for my own zone. As far as administrative supervision is concerned, you can act in so far as the fees regulations are wrongly drawn up. For the record, the error is not in the fees regulations. In fact, the article on technical assistance which can be charged is being abused. The point is that the zone is miscalculating. A number of people have already been affected by it. How can we prevent it from happening in the future? You say you'll write a letter to the zone. Can I get that letter, too? Then I can deliver it immediately. That is a faster solution, both for the zone and for the people who get the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u77	We'll serve you at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u78	Mr President, my question may seem strange, but I have been confronted in my commune with people who wanted to marry under this procedure, with a sieve on their heads. These are adherents of a "religion" to the farfetched theories. They cover their heads with a sieve! Thus, a fan was refused the photo he proposed for his new ID card because of his head covering: a sieve. Indeed, on the basis of the recommendations of the Internal SPF, the municipal administration of Durbuy refused the photo, since pastafarism was not recognized as an official religion. To justify this position, the Inland FPS issued a 1992 circular, as amended in 1996, which states that the head covering must be part of "the usual appearance or related to an undeniable religious or medical motive". However, the individual argues that the official documents of the Home SPF also state that "for a religious reason, a photograph in which the head is covered may be allowed, provided that the face is completely clear." That's what this person was pointing out. Currently, several countries such as Russia, the United Kingdom or Austria accept the requests of the Pastafarians for photo ID. Minister, what is your position on this? Indeed, a Sikh filed an application with the European Court of Human Rights in France considering that his religion ordered him to wear the turban. In Belgium, however, this religion is not recognized and leads us to a problem of a wider character than this amusing phenomenon of pastafarism requiring its members to wear a sieve on the head as a head covering. Will you intervene on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u79	Be careful about you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u80	Mr President, Mr Nollet, my position is rather based on the input of the administration! Madame de Coster, the general rule laid down in the regulations on identity cards provides that photographs must be taken face-to-face and without head covering, therefore headless. The photo matrix containing the acceptance criteria for the photograph of Belgian identity documents clearly states that no accessory may appear on the photograph. However, the regulations provide for two exceptions to the general principles, one for an undeniable religious reason, the other for medical reasons, with the result that a photograph with a covered head may be accepted provided that the faces are completely clear, namely that the forehead, cheeks, eyes, nose and chin must be fully discovered. It is desirable but not required that the hair as well as the ears be also clear. These exceptions cannot be taken into account without a serious justification on the part of the citizen concerned, but the municipality can therefore accept curfews for undeniable religious or medical reasons. The regulations also provide that the photograph of the cardholder is similar. As such, it is quite justifiable for a person who, for religious reasons, usually wears a head covering to be photographed with him, since that is how the person usually appears in public, like the followers of the Sikh religion, which does not seem to be the case of the followers of pastafarism, a reason for which we do not accept their request to wear a passory on their photo of identity. Once religion is recognized, we may be able to change that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u81	Minister, thank you for your clear answer to the question. They believe that their religion is recognized, as other countries recognize it. In fact, we had a debate on marriage. I assure you, it's quite amazing to have an assembly where all people have a colander on their heads, like head coverings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u82	Minister, the administrative approach to crime has been the subject of questions here before. The aim of this approach is to stop organised crime by imposing more administrative measures. We understand that our country has little or no experience of this to date, and it seems appropriate for our group to make progress. Mr Minister, at the plenary session on 19 November last year and in response to an oral question from me a month later, you indicated that you wanted to develop legislation similar to the Dutch BIPDO legislation in accordance with the government agreement and that within a few months you would install a RIEC, a regional information and expertise centre, in accordance with the Dutch BIPDO legislation. On 15 March 2016, on the other hand, you answered a question from a colleague in our committee that it is not the intention to copy the BIPDO legislation. We need to take the test with the rules that already exist in our country, and we should not invent new things if legislation already exists, which should be applied better, you said. Firstly, we do not need to find regulations that lead to nothing, but why this sudden change of direction, Minister? Secondly, can you explain why the BIPDO legislation would not be applicable in our country? Thirdly, what do we already have and what additional provisions need to be made in order to complete the passage on the administrative approach to crime in the coalition agreement? Fourthly, when can we expect the first adjustments? Fifthly, you believe that many steps have already been taken by different police areas, but there is a need for coordination, support and coherence. What's the status on this? Have we learned lessons from, for example, the project in Genk? Sixthly, you also referred to changes in outdated drinking legislation and gambling legislation. What changes do you mean exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u83	The statements I made on 19 November 2015 were nothing more than the communication of a clear vision on how our country should evolve in the dossier. This view is, of course, best assessed in terms of its feasibility. That's why I set up an advisory committee at the end of last year, led by Professor Dr Brice De Ruyver. The advisory committee has the task, on the one hand, of describing a state of affairs and, on the other hand, of examining the feasibility, desirability and manner in which new legislation in this area should be introduced. The first results of the study led me to decide to adjust the course a little bit. The discussions on the Integrated Security Framework Paper also brought the governance approach to the fore, taking into account administrative authorities at the different levels of policy. The main reason is that the further development of the administrative approach to combating organised crime is urgent and that the development of a completely new legislation may take years, while we can achieve a great deal with the efficient application of the current instruments. Because the institutions and the functioning of our country, the federal government and the Länder are not identical to that of the Netherlands, we cannot simply copy and implement the Dutch BIPDO legislation. Scientific studies have already been carried out, for example the studies of Professor Van Daele, Brice De Ruyver and Prof. Fijnaut. This work is now part of the committee I have just mentioned. It is important to establish an integrated, coherent approach. This is also the case in the Integrated Security Framework Paper. The administrative guidelines are developed continuously at the different levels of policy. On 14 April the advisory committee met for a second time. If there is an agreement here, the manual can continue to be written out. It should be ready by the end of May 2016. The good practices of Genk and Turnhout are included in the study. Two pilot projects are still planned. Its practical operational support will also be discussed in the guidance committee. The two legislations to which you refer must be brought up to date again. This means, inter alia, that the grounds for refusal of authorisation should be extended and that it should be examined to what extent a morality inquiry should be carried out on the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We are, of course, also in favour of legislation that can be implemented. You're referring to the urgency. We are also convinced that there is an urgent need for a global approach. You seem to have chosen a different path. Is it possible that, once the advisory committee has completed its work, we will have access to that report or reports? Or can we be informed about this? (Applause from the left)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u85	Unfortunately, Minister, many other incidents have already taken place, but prior to the Croky Cup final between Standard Liège and Club Bruges, some 700 supporters of the hard core of Standard Liège have caused riots at the Brussels Stock Exchange. Of these, about one hundred and fifty were arrested. Unfortunately, such incidents still occur regularly in our country. For this reason, the police's commitment to football matches is still necessary. The total police deployment in first and second class increased by 3 528 men last year. It was the first increase in ten years. There was an increase in both first and second class. As regards security at football matches, several bodies play a role. Everyone must fulfil their responsibilities. It cannot be that one partner has to compensate for another partner's lack of effort. However, it is mostly the municipalities in whose territory the matches take place that have to bear the bulk of the costs. In 2013, your predecessor stated that she was preparing a KB, allowing local authorities, under certain conditions, to recover the costs of the police deployment from the organizers of, among other things, football matches. So far, it is still the municipalities that bear the costs. Do you intend to issue a similar KB, so that football associations can contribute to more financial space in the police budget? If not, do you have alternatives to achieve the same goal? The facts of Sunday 20 March, as published in the press, are absolutely scandalous. The police have other business to attend to. Can you explain more about what really happened and about the deployment of troops that day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u86	Ms Gabriels, the enforcement of public order in connection with football matches is regulated by the circular OOP 27quater of 8 June 1999. As far as my powers are concerned, I can tell you that so far no list of administrative police missions for which compensation can be requested from organisers pursuant to Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act is available. Moreover, this objective is not contained in the coalition agreement. It was discussed during the government negotiations, but the coalition partners agreed not to include this objective in the coalition agreement. By checking with the local police area of Brussels-Elsene, it appears that for the facts of 20 March last, eight hundred hardcore supporters of Standard Liège had gathered at the Beursplein in Brussels. After about twelve hours of damage was done to the street furniture and traffic marking and was tried to succeed a passerby, the police acted. One hundred supporters were apprehended administratively, nineteen were arrested later. About sixteen platoons were deployed and a platoon has forty policemen: these are 640 policemen for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I was not present in the negotiations on the coalition agreement, so this is new information for me. It is clear that no further work is being done on this. Six hundred and forty people, that's huge. It is shameful that these should be used for such things in times of terror threats 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u88	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u89	Mr President, Minister, in your policy paper we read that the Crisis Centre has devised a system of BE-Alert to send an alarm message via the same platform to different channels, including a text message. A text message is of course very efficient, as it does not require the Internet and the message is immediately available. The intention is to inform everyone in our country who is present in the danger zone in the event of a terrorist attack, disaster or other emergency. In fact, we have been told in the press over the past few weeks that there is already a pilot project on this subject. The SMS alert system comes after negotiations with the three mobile operators operating in our country, Proximus, Mobistar and BASE. They'll make sure that anyone who's in a risk zone with a cell phone gets an emergency text. Not only the inhabitants, but also visitors or foreign tourists can get a message. The privacy of the recipients will remain guaranteed, because only operators will know who gets a message. The tender for the system would take place one of these months. Immediately after the attacks in Zaventem and Brussels on 22 March, however, the GSM network in our country collided with its limits. Both Proximus and Mobistar saw the number of calls doubling and Telenet saw a triple at peak moments. The network was not calculated on that sudden increase and became saturated almost throughout the day. Even the phone number of the Crisis Centre remained unreachable until it was given priority by the telecom operators. It took until late in the afternoon for mobile phone calls to go smoothly. There would be a thorough evaluation of what went wrong. Hence my questions. Minister, how do you propose to set up an SMS alert system if the network is overloaded even without such a system in emergency situations? How will the telecommunications problems be evaluated in concrete terms on 22 March? Is it true that the ASTRID network also failed that day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u90	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, since April 2014, it is possible for every citizen to register for a new alert system via the website of the Internal FPS Crisis Centre, namely the BE-Alert device. The latter is supposed to allow public authorities to broadcast notifications to citizens via their gsm and fixed telephones quickly and in a targeted manner, depending on the nature of the disaster and the level of crisis. However, according to the media, it appears that during the tragic attacks of 22 March last year, this alert system unfortunately did not work well since users said they had not received any messages about the attacks. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. 1. Can you confirm the information published in the press about the malfunctions of the BE-Alert device? If so, what are the causes and, therefore, what steps have been taken to correct this problem? 2. Could you also tell me if your services are currently working on the development of other emergency systems, in order to better respond to crisis situations? If so, can you tell us more about the systems in the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully share your concern for a fluid and effective warning system for the benefit of the people. In addition to crisis management and preparedness, the provision of warning channels is also the responsibility of the Crisis Centre. That is why we are working on the BE-Alert alert platform. The current pilot project has been implemented within a limited framework in terms of number of users, budget, speed and capacity, to acquire testing experiences and achieve its goals. The project has enabled us to develop a new platform with more possibilities and capabilities, which will be proposed from September or October of this year throughout Belgium. Unfortunately, the current pilot project did not, at this time, provide a response to a situation of such magnitude. The data introduced by the citizens in question upon registration will also be available at the launch of BE-Alert. In parallel with this development, a technology is being prepared to send to all gsm present in a defined area a text message. This could indeed be an effective response to situations such as the 22 March attacks. All those who are registered in this system and who are in a specific area will be able to receive a message from the Crisis Centre. For the development of this new technology, the Crisis Centre is currently working closely with mobile network operators. The delivery of this technology is expected by the end of 2016, integration into the BE-Alert platform for 2017. The fact that both the BE-Alert platform and the SMS warning technology are currently being tendered and developed explains why neither of them could be engaged in the 22 March attacks. However, we assume that the BE-Alert system in its final version will, after delivery, with all its features, be part of the permanent reflexes of crisis management. A distinction should be made between sending an individual text message and sending a large amount of text messages. Although networks of mobile operators are used, their structure is different. The alert SMS system, which is part of BE-Alert, uses a direct link to the SMS servers of the mobile network operators, which in turn deliver it. So there are no intermediate links during the construction. Mobile operators can assign a certain priority to an SMS message, prioritising its handling and delivery in the network. In the case of BE-Alert, this will be the highest priority for all messages. That seems pretty weedy to me. For SMS services, mobile operators use the 2G and 3G network. In the near future, the 4G network will also be used for this purpose, which will greatly boost capacity. Sending a text message is just one of many ways to alert the population. There are additional possibilities via social media, linking with existing apps, with Google Public Alert and Twitter Alert, integration with IP applications, with radio and TV networks and with electronic sirens. These are all things that are currently being considered with potential suppliers. The Action Plan and the Roadmap prepared by BIPT in the aftermath of 22 March 2016 will take into account the concerns of BE-Alert. Finally, with regard to the operation of ASTRID during the attacks in Brussels, I have to tell you that the number of messages across the ASTRID line was five times higher than in the disaster in Gellingen. The area in Brussels is much more densely populated and the impact was also greater. However, there was five times more traffic on the ASTRID network. On 24 March 2016, a debriefing was organised by the BIPT and the cabinet of Minister De Croo with the relevant telecom operators and the Crisis Centre, where an action plan was also drawn up. For more information, please refer to Mr De Croo. Mrs Gabriels, that can't be difficult for you. On 7 April 2016, the BIPT and the cabinet of Minister De Croo again had a follow-up consultation with telecom operators, as well as with ASTRID and the Crisis Centre to discuss the roadmap for possible measures in the event of a crisis. The concerns of BE-Alert were put forward. They will be discussed further by the operators and the services of BE-Alert. Here's what I'm gonna give you. I mentioned it here in committee last week or two weeks ago. However, it is useful to mention it here too. One of the three operators, BASE, for example, did not care about the radiation restriction in Brussels. The operator considered that this was a special case requiring special measures. As a result, that operator is able to remain operational. The BASE subscribers could keep calling. Proximus and Mobistar have not done so and that is why these networks were so overloaded at certain times and there was no traffic. Something in my mind says that the additional measure will be that it will be possible to derogate from radiation standards in specific cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u93	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I see that action is being taken and I am pleased that this mechanism can be developed in an optimal manner. I think this is an important element in sensitive situations like the one we have experienced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u94	Mr President, Minister Gilles de Kerchove, the European Union's coordinator for the fight against terrorism has just declared in La Libre Belgique on 26 March that it would not be surprising if the nuclear sector were to become the target of cyberattacks in the future. Minister, what level of guarantee do we have today that such a threat (of terrorists entering the SCADA, the management centre of a power plant) cannot be implemented in Belgium? What measures have been put in place and what will be taken as a result of this declaration? Furthermore, in January 2015, AFCN still did not have its own expert on cybercrime, considering that the need had not yet been felt. Now that the site has been the victim of several attacks and the threat of cyberattacks is at this point considered real by the European coordinator, I hope that the Agency has reconsidered its position. Minister, can you reassure me about this and tell me how long AFCN has had such an expert?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u95	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the approach to cybersecurity is part of the security of information which is regulated by the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on the physical protection of nuclear installations, materials and transports and on classified information. This decree sets out the physical protection measures for nuclear power plants. Although the term cybersecurity and cyberattack is not literally included in current legislation, each nuclear facility is required to take steps to protect nuclear records, including digital records stored in electronic media. The security of Belgian nuclear power plants in the face of cyberattacks has already been the subject of an in-depth analysis in the context of stress tests in 2011. The results revealed that a cyber attack on a Belgian nuclear power plant is not likely to result in the loss of safety functions, mainly because reactor control and safety systems are separated from the plant's and company's computer networks. In addition, almost all control and security systems use analog technology that cannot be subjected to cyber attacks. The interview with Mr Gilles de Kerchove in La Libre Belgique is not a reason to strengthen cybersecurity measures. This process is ongoing. All parties concerned are aware that the above tests were a snapshot and that continuous monitoring of cybersecurity is necessary in view of the rapid and constant evolution in this area. As a result, AFCN and Bel V specifically monitor the protection of information within each Belgian nuclear facility by conducting regular verifications. Similarly, each facility change is assessed in terms of information protection and cyber security. The AFCN is also closely following developments within the IAEA with regard to international cybersecurity recommendations in order to allow for a feedback on international cybersecurity experiences. Finally, AFCN attended a meeting with the Cybersecurity Center in January 2016. This was an opportunity to discuss the initiatives Belgium still needs to undertake to optimize its cybersecurity and strengthen international cooperation in this area. AFCN and Bel V have the necessary expertise in cybersecurity. Experts in the field are already working, but since 2015, AFCN and Bel V have highly qualified specialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u96	Minister, you're talking about 2015. It's a little late in terms of the development of cyber attack risks. However, this does not prevent me from taking note of the facts. On the other hand, I note a mismatch between your remarks, which are intended to be relatively reassuring, and those made by Mr Gilles de Kerchove, which I will not call alarms, but which are intended to send an alarm signal in order to react. This does not mean that tomorrow there will be an attack or cyberattack. Still, this lag is somewhat regrettable. I regret that you did not take advantage of the signal sent to relay it. You prefer to say that a procedure is already under way, that things are moving in on a permanent basis. There are times when we cannot ignore the messages and signals sent by these European leaders. Recognize that Mr. de Kerchove's competence cannot be called into question. In doing so, if he has said this, it is, in my opinion, with the objective of having the reaction. I recall that, in an international ranking about which I asked you, Belgium was in a very poor position in terms of its ability to resist a possible cyberattack. I therefore regret that you are not taking this opportunity to reinforce the message sent by Mr de Kerchove.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u97	Mr Nollet, I spoke to Mr Gilles de Kerchove about this issue. He meant that, in general, cybersecurity in Belgium is not the most important priority, which he regrets. Like you, I read the article, but I repeat that I had the opportunity to talk to him. I am well aware that nuclear sites are targets for terrorists. But after informing him about how cybersecurity is planned in our power stations, he was rather reassured. It has simply taken into account cybersecurity in Belgium in general in the public and private sectors and the targets that nuclear power plants may be for terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u98	Minister, we know that different levels of physical protection are determined for different areas in nuclear power plants. Has AFCN already defined the list of "very highly protected" areas? If not, when does she intend to do it? Which areas in Belgium are to be considered in the categories "vital areas" and "very highly protected areas"?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u99	Mr Nollet, the definition of safe zones stems from a graduated approach based on the consideration of two different types of risks: the risk of theft of nuclear material with the intention of producing an explosive nuclear device, on the one hand, and the risk of sabotage against nuclear material and facilities with the intention of causing unacceptable radiological consequences, on the other. The definition of safe areas is proposed by the operators of nuclear facilities, including those of power plants. It is within the framework of the process of accreditation of physical protection systems currently under way that the AFCN gives its opinion on these proposals. As such, discussions and exchanges between the Authority and operators on this matter are being conducted at a steady pace. The time limits for the approval phases are set out in the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on the physical protection of nuclear materials and installations. Highly highly protected areas are safe areas in which category 1 nuclear material has been used, produced or stored for which the "very secret" level of security has been assigned. It should be noted that this allocation can only be made by the Director General of the AFCN or his delegate, the head of the department that has security in his or her jurisdiction, in exceptional circumstances and risks, or where this level of security is possibly required by a State that provides nuclear material. Vital areas are areas of high safety where equipment, systems, devices or other elements are located, the sabotage of which could directly or indirectly lead to consequences exceeding internationally recognized radiological standards for workers, the population or the environment. The vital areas within the nuclear facilities are identified on the basis of a complex analysis carried out by the operators and verified by the Authority. It is based on the estimation of the radiological consequences that would be generated by the sabotage of nuclear materials or equipment, systems and devices important for safety. We cannot provide a listing of the various security zones currently proposed for all nuclear installations. This is sensitive information, the dissemination of which must be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u100	Mr President, I would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u101	It'll be the last one, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u102	Mr Minister, the IAEA boss, Mr Amano, has just declared in Vienna on 24 March that "the world must be more protected against the risk of nuclear terrorism" stressing that "the possibility of such an attack, with devastating consequences, can be increasingly excluded". In about 20 years, the IAEA has documented nearly 2,800 cases of trafficking, illegal possession or loss of radioactive substances. But, according to Mr Amano, "it is very possible that this is only the tip of the iceberg". However, the equivalent of a plutonium grapefruit would be sufficient for a terrorist group to produce a rudimentary atomic bomb, a scenario that the IAEA boss considered "not impossible" while pointing out that such a threat was too often underestimated by States. Can you tell me what analysis you make of these unreassuring statements? What steps will be taken to take into account these recent statements by the IAEA boss? Furthermore, he considered that the weakest link in nuclear security was the fact that the amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and Facilities, which alone would oblige States to protect nuclear material, had still not been able to enter into force eleven years after its signature, owing to a lack of ratifications. I assume that Belgium has ratified this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u103	Mr Nollet, Mr Yukiya Amano's statements do not contain any new elements. This risk is known. The first IAEA Director General to report on this issue was Mohamed El Baradei in 2001, following the attacks on the WTC towers in the United States. For several years, efforts have been made at the national and international levels to strengthen the physical protection system of nuclear facilities. As such, AFCN has reviewed and updated existing regulations. This new regulation has been in force since 2011. At all nuclear facilities, security plans are assessed and necessary improvements are implemented. What is the status of Belgium in terms of ratification of this amendment? The 2005 amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material was ratified in early January 2013. In the meantime, national legislation and regulations and our country's policy in this area have been developed in accordance with this amendment. The IAEA has announced that this amendment will enter into force from 8 May. It is therefore ten years after being proposed for the first time that the amendment will apply. This is due to the fact that this Convention deals only with nuclear materials and installations. Therefore, countries that do not possess nuclear materials or facilities, the majority of the international community, do not consider ratification of the Convention a priority. However, various political initiatives were trying to raise awareness among those States, stressing the need to ratify it. Belgium also plays a major role in this partnership in raising awareness. Let us not forget that nuclear security and, consequently, the prevention of nuclear terrorism is a national competence. A report listing the countries that have already ratified this amendment and those that have not ratified it is available on the IAEA website. In my answer is the name of the site, since it is long enough. Two thirds of the signatory countries have ratified the amendment, which will soon enter into force. Belgium is not content to ratify it, as it is also actively involved in multilateral initiatives to prevent nuclear, biological and chemical terrorism, such as the Nuclear Security Summit, the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, the G-8 Global Partnership, the Proliferation Security Initiative, the Megaports Initiative, etc. In addition, Belgium fulfils all the obligations arising from UN Resolution 1540 (2004), including the prevention of nuclear terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u104	Mr Minister, it is a good thing that this amendment finally comes into force. On the other part of your answer, I am quite astonished to hear you say that there is no new element in the words of the boss of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Indeed, he says that one can less and less exclude an attack of this type. He says that this is changing, that the risk is increasing and you say that there is no new element! I do not think it is appropriate to minimize these elements. We must take into account Mr El Baradei's remarks a few years ago, which have been reiterated today, saying that there are fewer and fewer possibilities to exclude this type of attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u105	We can't exclude...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u106	The risk is growing...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u107	The possibility of a nuclear attack is not ruled out. And if Mr. Amano repeats that he should not be excluded, he is right. But it's not new.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u108	No, he says we can't rule him out any more and less. This means that the risk is becoming more and more important. We are not going to do semantics, but the point is clear: we can less and less exclude it. On the other hand, in Belgium, it is only since mid-March that armed men – soldiers – are present at nuclear sites. I say that there was probably also a delay in taking the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u109	This is included in a list of IAEA recommendations and it is – I think – the last one we have yet to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic392x.u110	I agree with you that this was part of the demands. But we're applying it very late. However, it has been several years since the demand was internationally pending. So it's not about you that it's about. But you went to the United States recently; I think they had the opportunity to remind you.
