ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, today, the only way to get the contact details of the on-call pharmacy between 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., i.e. during the slightly enlarged dark night, is to travel to the nearest pharmacy to view the information about the on-call pharmacy opened at that time, or to call 0903 99 000, number charged 1.50 euro per minute. I can understand the situation. The reality within the officiaries is not simple. In fact, both day and night, including the weekend, patients can come to the on-call pharmacy a little as if it were an all-in-one store, not to come looking for a medicine needed in case of emergency, but to buy a pregnancy test – this has already been seen. It happens at night, too. Of course, this is not right! At the same time, the cost of a call charged 1.50 euro per minute, which is not negligible, refers to patients who actually need these daycare pharmacies. Madam Minister, I have learned that a consultation involving the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, the patient associations and your firm has taken place on this subject. Are my information correct? What are the conclusions? There is a need to consider a way to change things to take account of the reality of the officiaries, which is not simple, but to pay particular attention to patients experiencing a real emergency requiring access to a drug in the officiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u2	Mrs Fonck, one may rightly ask whether the patient must make a financial contribution in order to be able to consult information about the nearest on-call pharmacy. I have already taken part in a consultation on this subject, with my administration, the professional associations of official pharmacists, the College of Pharmacists and the representative associations of patients. Several avenues were discussed during this consultation, including the integration of a telephone daycare service for pharmacists in the system of 1733, the financing of the existing paid number and the publication of the address of the nearest daycare pharmacy on the website apotheek.be or pharmacy.be. We are currently discussing with pharmacist associations to determine what would be the best way to achieve a lasting solution to this problem. This consultation is part of a wider consultation on the multi-annual framework for official pharmacists and in the context of which other topics relating to the sector are discussed. In other words, pharmacists, patient associations and my administration have been working together to explore possible pathways. Discussions are under way to find a solution acceptable to all. But it's not easy. As far as I am concerned, it is not acceptable for a patient to pay EUR 1.50 per minute, or even any other amount. These are emergency care and the search for an emergency pharmacy. Even during the dark night, it must be possible to access it. Of course, this system exists for security reasons. In any case, a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u3	Madam Minister, we are meeting. We have to find a balance. The principle of emergency care and access to an emergency medicine must be guaranteed. We must not let Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World who do not need an emergency drug use the custody of pharmacists as if it were their responsibility, regardless of the type of product they wish to obtain. Pharmacy, as part of health care, is not a night shop. The principle of charging for access to information is quite surprising. I measure that if this information is placed on the website, it will not stop people, although few, who abuse the custody of pharmacists. I repeat that a balance must be struck. In any case, there should be no question of leaving the situation as it stands. There is a need to ensure both accessibility and availability for real emergencies and not to accept abuse, even if it involves only a limited number of people who view pharmacies as night stores. In conclusion, I hope that you will find, in collaboration with the stakeholders, a solution satisfactory to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, from the academic year 2016-2017 the professional Bachelor's degree in Nursing will last four years. During this fourth year, students will be able to work part-time in the sector through two 11 week contracts. The reasoning behind these changes is understandable. There's been a shortage of nurses for years. This new system can partly cope with this and will also give future nurses the opportunity to build up experience. However, there are some important concerns that are still alive in the workplace. Those concerns are reflected in my questions. Firstly, since there is a contract, the reasoning is logical that a remuneration is also linked to it. Do you confirm that this is true? What compensation are we talking about? What is the budgetary impact of this? Secondly, what are the consequences for the parents of the pupils who make such contracts? Are these students still subject to tax? Are these families still entitled to a scholarship? Do the parents of these young people still receive child benefit during this internship period? Thirdly, are financial or fiscal consequences linked to the trainees or parents if the trainee in question is required to take up an internship? What are the conditions under which an internship can be renewed? What are the financial modalities attached to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, as you know, the organisation of education is a community matter. As part of the reform of the studies leading to the title of nurse responsible for general care, in accordance with the latest European Directive, Flemish Minister for Education Hilde Crevits proposes to organise contractual traineeships in the fourth year. The Task Force contract placement in Flanders has already started to study this and to formulate a number of proposals. The federal government will not be able to implement such a mechanism in the country until all the actors have reached agreement, in particular the respective Ministers of Education and the Ministers of Health of the three Communities. Ministers of Education should include this speciality in their decrees establishing the training programme. Health ministers are involved in this because the care facilities that contractual trainees will have to take care of will have to be provided. I will therefore put forward a proposal to set up an interfederal health education working group at the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on 30 June, which will have to start work immediately. Since the nursing students will start a new education programme over four years in September 2016, if all the parties involved want to introduce the so-called contract placements, we have until June 2019 to arrange all the details of it. It will also be necessary to examine the legal feasibility of such a system. The model of dual learning proposed by the Flemish Community during the last year of training, before actually obtaining a recognition and visa for the exercise of a health profession, in this case nursing, currently does not exist for any other healthcare profession referred to in the law on the exercise of the health professions of 2015. We therefore have no experience of dual learning under the law on the exercise of health professions. In the case of doctors and hospital pharmacists in training, for example, candidates are granted a visa before the start of vocational training, which already gives them access to the profession. This is very important, because these young people already have some responsibility in the workplace, although they are still in training. So the system must really be final: are they still under supervision, do they have their own visa, what is the status of dual learning in a health profession? That is all new and we need to clarify it. Finally, I would like to stress that the project must be implemented in a budget neutral manner as far as the federal entity is concerned. You also ask about the consequences for the parents. That is linked to whether or not it is about dual learning. You know that there are exemptions for this. They also remain dependent and may earn extra money as students and so on. If they are still dependent, they still receive child benefit, but this also depends on their age. So these questions are all premature. However, we are taking them with us, because the sector and yourself want an answer to it. We take all the questions into the interfederal working group of the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. These are still premature questions, but it is important to find solutions to them now. After all, what needs to be done with this is living in the workplace. I have also received this question through Gasthuisberg, who would like to receive an answer to these questions. It is good that a working group has been set up through the IMC. Hopefully that will be clear for the sector soon. In this way, the parents who still have the children will also be made clear. After all, it makes a difference for the income of those parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u7	Madam Minister, I shall return to the audit report of the Flemish Health Inspectorate. A while ago I asked you a question about this and you referred in your reply to Article 11 of the protocol agreement which provides that the Health Inspectorate may publish its findings in Flanders. I have two more questions on this matter. There remains a problem with and complaints continue to arise about the current staff shortage. The Mayor of Ghent requested the audit report in the context of the disclosure of the administration. He only received a very short summary with a number of conclusions. The Flemish Health Inspectorate refuses to deliver the FPC Ghent audit report to the mayor. However, this can be done under closed cover. He may be required to observe confidentiality. The mayor thinks he has the right to look at this audit report, especially because there were security issues. For this purpose, reference is made to the fact that there is still a public invitation to tender for the FPC Antwerp. This means that the safety of patients is actually subordinated to economic interests and any conflict of interests should the report be delivered to the mayor. After all, this does not mean that the report will be published just like that. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. Are you prepared to look into the personnel problems in the FPC anyway? If so, would you like to make any adjustments? Despite your commitment in your answer to my question No. 10475 which refers to the protocol agreement and which stipulates that the Flemish Health Inspectorate may publish its findings, Ghent has still not received a copy of the audit report. I would therefore like to ask you to deliver this report to the mayor. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u8	Mrs Temmerman, after your previous question, I sent the mayor a letter in which I informed him that he would be free to contact us if he had any further questions, including in the future. We also sent him a summary of the audit report. The Flemish Health Agency is not a healthcare agency under my jurisdiction. I have also said that I do not see the problem for the Flemish Health Agency. I therefore propose that one of your fellow Members should ask Flemish Minister Vandeurzen, because the Flemish Health Agency operates under his powers. With me there is openness of administration and such an audit report can be viewed. However, you tell me yourself that the other FPC is still subject to the tendering procedure. The audit report, which is mentioned, contains many positive elements, as well as some comments and working points, as should be the case in an audit report. It also states that the audit was actually carried out too early, because the forensic psychiatric center only works for a year. Normally, such an investigation takes place on a psychiatric service only after four or five years, when everything is working properly. However, I think it is a good thing that this audit was carried out. There were also a number of things that we disagree with immediately. For example, standards did not take into account the four different types of departments, where the last section actually represents the final step towards the re-entry of the interned into society. The interned must no longer be surrounded by four men in that department, and then released into society. This transition must be gradual. That fourth, last section is therefore an open section. None of this has been taken into account. Nor has it been taken into account that safety personnel are also present, including at night. So the care staff and the security staff are together in those departments. One year's operation is therefore far too short to draw far-reaching conclusions. This does not alter the fact that the FPC is dealing with the removal of a number of pain points identified in the report. A catch-up movement is being made to provide care to the interns, in a place other than the prison where they were previously and on which we all agreed that they should not be there. So there are signals coming from the FPC Ghent where people are working on those comments and pain points in the audit report that we are talking about. It is important to continue this exercise. I repeat, it is too early to draw any premature conclusions. Nevertheless, we closely monitor the operation of the FPC. There are currently no elements that allow the standard to be questioned. In anticipation, we want to evaluate for a longer period of time before considering adjustment. There is a great deal of openness within the management about, among other things, the measures they take. We told the mayor that we understand his concerns from the security point of view. However, the report does not take into account the security measures taken there. They themselves say that they have taken the norm of a specialized department of psychiatry. In such a service there are no safety personnel or accompanying staff present. I have also told you that recruitment has not yet been completed and that further work is being carried out. So it is work in progress that we follow very closely. However, I cannot impose on the Flemish Health Inspectorate itself to give an audit report to the mayor. I'm not authorized to do that. They'll say they didn't get anything from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can see that there are still a number of things to look into. The question of releasing this report has, of course, already been put to the Flemish Government. However, it is simply not released. Of course, the fact that people refuse this obstinately raises suspicion. If you say that certain points have not been taken into account, then we cannot check because the audit report is not public. I can understand, in a way, that something like this is not made public, but if a mayor asks for such a thing, then I do not understand at all why he does not get it. I'm not saying this is your fault because you're not qualified. However, I do not understand at all that this audit report is not being released. I assume you meet your fellow Members occasionally, and perhaps you should advise them to release that report. Once again, not releasing it raises more suspicion than simply releasing it so that one can find out what is in it, among other things what will be improved, which is still difficult, what one has to wait for and how it can be evaluated later. Now people keep guessing. Guessing in this one is never good. It is better if we can just work on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u10	It wasn't delivered to your mayor, but it was delivered to De Morgen. That might mean something, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u11	Apparently so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u12	Maybe we'll have to ask the Morgen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u13	They say they have to protect their sources, so they don't give anything. We've already asked them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the European Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC provides, in Article 7, that "Member States shall prohibit the placing on the market of tobacco products containing additives in quantities which, when consumed, significantly or measurable, increase their toxic effects or their addictive effect or their CMR properties." However, at the Public Health FPS site, it is indicated that "ammonium compounds are believed to contribute to tobacco dependence by improving the absorption of nicotine in the lungs. However, the evidence on this subject is contradictory." Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you intend to conduct an independent study on the impact of ammonium compounds in terms of tobacco dependence? Are there other additives on which the evidence of tobacco addiction is currently contradictory and on which it would be appropriate to conduct an independent study? If so, do you intend to conduct such studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u15	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question. The information you found on the FPS Public Health website was produced as part of the European PITOC (Public Information Tobacco Control) project in which the FPS Public Health participated. The purpose of this project was to improve consumer information about certain additives in tobacco products. European Directive 2014/40/EU lays down many provisions on additives used in the manufacture of tobacco products. These provisions include the obligation for manufacturers to provide the authorities with in-depth studies to examine, for certain priority additives, whether they contribute to the toxicity or dependence of the products in question, produce a characteristic flavour, facilitate inhalation or absorption of nicotine or lead to the formation of substances that have CMR properties. A scientific analysis carried out at European level and validated by the European Commission and the Member States has established this list of priority additives. Carob, cocoa, dysacetyl, fenugrec, fig, geraniol, glycerol, gaiacol, guar gum, licorice, maltol, menthol, propylene glycol, sorbitol and titanium dioxide. Industrialists will have 18 months from 1 January 2017 to provide these in-depth studies to the authorities. Thereafter, it will always be possible to modify this priority list to include other additives. Work is currently under way at European level to define what kind of information should be requested from industrialists. Joint action by the Member States is also being prepared to work on all these ingredient-related issues, i.e. analysis of information, notifications and in-depth studies, as well as improvement of collaboration between laboratories. This task with regard to additives is therefore scientifically complex. This is a work that can only be done in the long term, in a context of European collaboration. The services of the Public Health FPS are part of this framework, in particular by collaborating in the preparation of the joint action. Therefore, there is currently no specific study for ammonium compounds since these additives have not been identified as priorities. I am convinced that all necessary phases must be coordinated. Each country should, for example, assume responsibility for a third of the package. Otherwise, it's not feasible. There are too many ingredients to consider and a few are likely to be added to the list. Our Public Health FPS is very active in facilitating collaborations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree with you, of course, on European coordination. I am surprised that ammonium is not one of the priority substances since it is indicated that ammonium compounds are believed to be contributing to dependency. It would be interesting to know why this molecule is not being taken up. But we'll probably come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u17	In any case, we will come back after the holiday on the subject "Tabac".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u18	Question No 12540 by Mrs Pas is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 12556 by Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u19	Minister, my inquiry extends our work in committee and in plenary on June 23 on the greater availability of palliative drugs. Our exchanges were quite long and rather lively, but mainly because they concerned the divergent responses between the Regions. The Brussels and Walloon actors felt that their proposals had not been heard, whereas only the Ostend pilot project had been so widespread. In plenary, you did not explain your position on the demands of the Brussels, Flemish and Walloon palliative care federations, as well as pharmacists, who had not been included in the motion for a resolution. That's why I'm calling you today. The first recommendation seeks to provide a framework for all parties to find an adequate and non-binding response to address specific needs and regional disparities, with respect and accountability for all stakeholders in the care chain (family doctor, family pharmacist or referral pharmacist, home nurse, second-line palliative care actors). The second recommendation is that family or reference pharmacists should be made aware of the care facilities. It also provides for the formalization of this function. The transmission of this information should be systematized, as is the case with the family doctor, when the patient is admitted to and discharged from hospital. Palliative care teams would be responsible for placing it on the patient's file. The third provides for an obligation to inform the family pharmacist beforehand about the patient's palliative status so that he can anticipate the demand and complete his stock in order to respond to emergencies in a minimum of time. The fourth recommendation provides for a broad communication on the addresses and contact details of multidisciplinary palliative care support teams to be provided to all potentially affected care providers. The fifth recommendation provides for multidisciplinary palliative care support teams to be informed at all times about the clinics open to the on-call public, which should include the deep night. The sixth recommendation provides for the evaluation of all the mechanisms put in place after two years, in order to make the necessary adjustments and to avoid drifts or situations of insecurity or inappropriate or illegal possession of medicines, and to assess whether these provisions are sufficient and effective to achieve the objectives set out in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u20	Mrs Gerkens, as you know, I was present when the resolution was introduced in the House and signed by all members. I also said that the conclusions of the various actors were taken into account. The resolution on the legality of the storage and transport of medicinal products for palliative use stems from the finding that access to these medicinal products is not always obvious. This would be noted above all in multidisciplinary home support teams. This problematic situation then gave rise to the resolution. A more in-depth analysis showed that this problem is not limited to multidisciplinary support teams but that palliative drugs must be accessible to all actors. I have already indicated this, and that applies to all cases, and I will try to find a solution for every citizen in every region of the country. This means in practice that access to palliative medicines needs to be improved. As reflected in the resolution, this will be done in consultation with the actors on the ground and the federated entities defined therein. The resolution provides a solution for both specialized and non-specialized services in the home care sector. I fully agree that a framework should be established to enable all parties to find an adequate and non-binding response, in order to take account of specific needs and regional disparities. With regard to the other points of the opinion of the palliative care federations and pharmacist associations, emphasis will be placed on the most useful actions to be taken in order to improve access. The recommendations for family pharmacists are reflected in the multi-year framework for pharmacists currently being negotiated by my strategic cell with the sectors. As you know, the consensus proposal to which you refer also contains elements that fall within the purview of the federated entities, such as the functioning and quality of multidisciplinary teams. That is why I will not comment on the internal functioning of these teams. This is not my responsibility, but it must be discussed with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you. I think that in my questions I had avoided what was within the competence of the federated entities and had removed what was already in the resolution. I am in part reassured by your reply, which is intended to take account of all the parties. I understand that this concern should be included in the note or work you are developing with pharmacist representatives, and should be reflected in the agreements with pharmacists. I also hear that discussions and work are to be done with the federated entities. However, in the recommendations, the transmission of information and communication between the pharmacy community and palliative care platforms is a requirement or element to be put in place by the federal government as part of the integrated work with multidisciplinary teams, and as you often say, without hierarchy between partners. I keep my idea of a motion - not just because Mr. Janssens remained - but to draw attention to the need to respond to all of the ten recommendations that have been made, whether this response is given by the federal government as such or by the discussions that you will have with the federated entities. It is a way of ensuring that these concerns are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government to meet all 10 recommendations made by the 3 Palliative Care Federations from the 3 Regions of the country and by representatives of pharmacists." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government fully implement the 10 recommendations of the three federations for palliative care of the three sub-areas and the representatives of pharmacists." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and by Messrs. Dirk Janssens et Jan Vercammen. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Jan Vercammen. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Ms. Van Camp's questions (Nos. 12639, 12640, 12641, 12642, 12674 and 12675) are transformed into written questions. While Mr Flahaux is moving in, I will give the floor to Mrs Fonck to put her question No 12792 on the "Rehabilitative Convention on Psychosocial Support in the Event of Unwanted Pregnancy".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u23	In order to save time, I propose to turn this point into a written question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u24	All right. So you can develop your question 12835 on "fibromyalgia".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u25	Madam President, if the minister gives me her answer, I would also like to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u26	It's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u27	Madam Minister, on 8 June 2016, I discovered a press release in which you indicated that you were investing €3.25 million in pilot projects including health applications. I am particularly concerned about this case and your communication for several reasons. First of all on the form, after taking some information, it comes to my mind that there has been no consultation with the actors concerned, first and foremost health professionals and patients. In your communication, you state that these health applications are a win-win situation for patients and care providers. Then, on the bottom, a whole series of points appeal to me. You specify that patients can monitor their health on an ongoing basis, but also be followed more quickly. What do you mean faster? Will the use of these applications involve new obligations for healthcare professionals to take care of them? Will they be required to respond within a very short period of time to any patient request regarding the use of these applications? You indicate that the administrative burden for care providers will decrease as they will be able to exchange digital information much more easily and quickly. Saying this, you do not take into account the workload associated with analyzing the data measured through the applications. This is an additional workload for care providers. I am also concerned about how the quality of information and the consequences of this information will be guaranteed through these health applications. I would also like to see clarity on the regulatory legal framework and on the funding model. A whole series of liability questions will arise in case of malfunctioning of these applications. Will this be the responsibility of the professional proposing the application or the manufacturer of the application? What about civil or other liability, including perhaps criminal liability, in case of misuse by the patient or in case of decision-making harmful to the patient's health based on misinterpretation of the data by the patient or misapparatus of these applications? There are limits to the use of these health applications. How are you going to inform patients and Mr. and Ms. All-World about the limitations of these applications? Does this information role fall within the remit of health professionals or not? If so, it overloads the work all the more. It seems to me that we will have to consider funding this mission of health professionals. What are the necessary safeguards for confidentiality and security? You refer to it in the press release. What are they really? How will these pilot projects be evaluated? On the basis of what criteria and above all by whom? You have mobilised €3.25 million for this project. It is a lot then that many questions remain unclear. The stakeholders involved, whether patients or professionals, did not participate in this project. They were not consulted on these decisions. I think it's really important to take stock of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u28	Mrs Fonck, Action Point 19 of the e-Health Action Plan provides for 5 cases to be accompanied: Stroke, cardiovascular care, diabetes, mental health care, chronic pain. This support is reflected in the launch of a call for projects for these 5 areas. The Action Plan was updated in 2015 on the basis of a consultation with stakeholders from the health care sector in the form of a round table. The dialogue took place during this round table. So it was well prepared. Telemonitoring allows a patient's health problem to be monitored on an ongoing basis and to move towards a just-in-time principle so that the patient can be monitored more quickly in the event of a problem and not only at the next consultation, as is currently the case. The use of applications will have an impact on the relationship between the provider and the patient. However, this does not mean that the claimant will be consulted more often by the patient. Consultations will be much more targeted, as the patient is better informed and the provider can immediately consult the recent history at each contact. The analysis of the data from the applications must be done either by the applications themselves or by other tools allowing the doctor to check them or to draw his own conclusion which is possibly different. This is only done at a time deemed necessary by the doctor or patient. No overload will therefore be caused, but rather, as has already been said, we are acting just in time. Pilot projects will be followed by experts in this area, while the legal aspect and the regulatory framework are developed during the pilot project period. The use of devices in the health care sector is not new. The existing law on liability is, of course, also applicable to mobile devices and apps. A working group has already been set up to examine and advise on the legal aspects of e-health in general and, in particular, mobile health. This working group analyses whether existing legislation should also be adapted. The budget framework is also developed during the pilot project period. Part of this is to check who needs to be paid and for what. Privacy and security guarantees must be at a level similar to and equivalent to that imposed on all other e-health applications. I refer to the role of the eHealth platform in this area. The evaluation of pilot projects is carried out by specialists within the administrations concerned, i.e. INAMI, AFMPS, the eHealth platform, supplemented by external independent experts. As indicated in the e-Health Plan, AFMPS and INAMI lead this pilot phase, each as part of its competencies. The selection of pilot projects shall be based on administrative compliance, clinical relevance, quality criteria, benefits for the patient, guarantees, the proposed project plan and the budget plan to be attached to the application. The budget of EUR 3.25 million is partly allocated to the creation of the legal framework and the quality control framework, as well as to the management of the Belgian ecosystem in terms of mobile health. The largest share of this amount, EUR 2.5 million, is intended to support this budget framework for the use of mobile health. No investment is planned for construction or for the purchase of applications. The call was launched on 30 June and is available on the INAMI website. There is also a new e-health site where you can subscribe to the brand new e-health newsletter. Why this call? Because it is important to draft pilot projects in hospitals. Some of them were very interested. However, it is the hospital team that must find its partners or introduce a project with mobile health applications. This cannot be done overnight. It is therefore important to leave them for a few months, which is why we launched the appeal. Previously, they met and were very active around the round tables. In the meantime, a dialogue has already begun on the ground and some are already ready to introduce pilot projects. Nevertheless, we really want to leave this opportunity to as many of them as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u29	Indeed, the minister, a consultation had taken place at the roundtable, but it had been very general. Many of the issues I raised were not addressed. As I understand it, these pilot projects will be carried out in connection with hospitals without involving general practitioners. Should it be recalled – I am thinking of diabetes, I am thinking of chronic pain, I am thinking of mental health, but also of stroke and cardiovascular diseases – that doctors remain the pilots of their patients' records? We need to be able to see things again so that we can closely associate the general practitioner. I think there can be added value in mobile health, provided that it is well marked, well organized with the different providers, including those in the home. Today, there are still a lot of blurred areas and I do not think there is any point in continuing to work with actors on the ground, including general practitioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u30	Madam Minister, it seems that MDMA, also known as "D" or "MD", better known as "love drug" is making its big return to Europe. This is reflected in the 2016 report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, published on 31 May, on data for the years 2013 and 2014. The report estimates that 13 million individuals in the 15-64 age group have already consumed MDMA, or nearly 4% of this population. I don't think many people over the age of 65 are using it... Although she is far from dethroning cannabis (24.8%), she still has cocaine. Most of the MDMA attracts young adults, as 2.1 million of the 2.5 million people who have consumed it during the year are under the age of 35. It can be found mainly in bars, nightclubs or at home parties. Cheap, easy to access, of good quality, it has all the advantages of a festive drug. Besides, there's little chance of getting addicted. Yet, this drug also has side effects. Indeed, people who have taken them abusively or at high doses risk a bad trip. They then keep residual signs a few days or even weeks later. They may suffer from anxiety or depressive disorders or, more rarely, psychotic disorders such as a feeling of persecution, deralization or depersonalization, i.e. they no longer recognize where they are or who they are. The risk of overdose that may lead to death is not to be excluded either. While drug use had declined for a long period of time due to its poor quality, sophisticated and targeted marketing would appear in order to revive it. On the other hand, the study indicates that synthetic products sold as "legal" substitutes appear on the Internet. These new psychotic substances play on a legal grey area: while the new molecule is officially recognised as illegal, it can be considered legal by default. However, the study indicates that cathinone, for example, a substitute for stimulants such as amphetamines, MDMA and cocaine, has caused nearly 200 acute poisonings and about 100 deaths since 2011 in Europe. These substances, which are more risky, are also clearly addictive. What is the state of play in Belgium? Do you have any information on the extent of the phenomenon? Can you position us on the European scale in terms of consumption? Do you have any information about the networks? What measures are or can be taken to control the phenomenon? I would like to point out – this is a boutade – that it is possible to determine the consumption of illicit substances in a city through the analysis of draining water. That's how we saw Antwerp being the most drug addicted city in Belgium!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u31	Mr Flahaux, large quantities of new psychoactive substances are found each year in Belgium and their appearance on the Belgian market is monitored by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. The Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs monitors not only the presence of these substances on the Belgian market but also the composition of conventional drugs, for example, the rate of MDMA in ecstasy pills. Remember, they launched some messages to youth, warning that MDMA levels were very rising in the various pills. The 2015 survey conducted by the prevention service Vereniging voor Alcohol - en andere Drugproblemen (VAD) noted that 3.4% of those interviewed in places of exit had consumed new psychoactive substances at least once in the previous year. Figures for new psychoactive substances are very low compared to those for alcohol (95.7%) and cannabis (33%). This is mainly due to the rather small profile of consumers, of people going to dance parties. Data from the ASBL Eurotox (the prevention service for the French-speaking part of the country) also indicate that there is no widespread consumption in the general population. We do not have any information about any networks. Various initiatives are being taken. Others are already being implemented. Drug legislation has been adapted to include generic legislation that makes virtually all new psychoactive substances existing or future in our country illegal. I hope that this legislation can enter into force as soon as possible, after consultation with the ministers concerned - the Minister of Justice and others. The Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs is undertaking various initiatives to study the composition of street drugs and detect new substances. Within this framework, all drugs seized at major festivals are systematically analysed. In 2015, four 4-fluoroamphetamine products were found at a festival in our country. In addition, the prevention services Eurotox and VAD pay particular attention to new psychoactive substances by carrying out targeted prevention actions during dance evenings. This means that a part of our population is often dancing - at dance festivals or music festivals - and much of it uses alcohol or psychoactive products. This is obviously a health concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u32	Minister, you're going to deduce from the many questions I'm asking in this area, which I've become addicted to. Accro to questions yes, but obviously not to substances! Thank you for your answer. It is true that even if the figures you have given, as well as those from the European Observatory, show that apart from cannabis, we are less affected than all the countries of Europe, it requires investigations. It may not all be reported since these facts are penalized; there may be problems. You're right about the festivals. I assure you, the one we are organizing in Braine-le-Comte, the Ronquières festival, is the safest for the moment, unlike that of Dour. That's an important point. Let us not forget: I think Belgium is the second country producing ecstasy pills after the Netherlands. We must therefore continue our efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I have raised this question following a study at Hasselt University, which shows that every time the smoking law is tightened, the health of the Flemings would have improved, except in 2011, after the ban on smoking in cafés. In the meantime, I have also seen figures according to which something else is claimed. But that is not the main point of my question. The news, however, is that the Public Health Office finds in almost thirty percent of the controlled cafes infringements, that a large number of fines are not paid and that in the event of prosecution, massive dismissals are made, except by a few parquets that do lead by example, some may regard them as fatally diverse, but I honestly do not think it is possible for the law to be so massively violated. In this context, you announce the recruitment of more inspectors. That is a good thing for us to say applause. Nevertheless, it seems that there has been a bad habit of sneaking into a number of café owners and that there is still too little awareness of the damage that smoking causes to themselves and to the environment. Madam Minister, when will you propose your anti-tobacco plan and what will it mean, in addition to recruiting more inspectors, to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, I have already said that I have brought together a number of measures that should contribute together to achieving the ambitious health objective of reaching 17 percent of daily smokers in 2018. This objective has also recently been proposed in a working group of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. It was agreed that by the autumn the Communities would align their existing and possibly new initiatives on prevention and health promotion. With regard to the problem you raise, I can say that the anti-tobacco plan provides for the recruitment of 12 additional inspectors and an additional lawyer for the follow-up. Those are the additional measures. I also refer to all the previous questions in this committee. There are few new elements. I've always given all the answers I had. It goes without saying that, in the case of preventive measures and health promotion measures developed by the Communities, the noses must all be in the same direction. It is right that this should be discussed in the working party of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, and vice versa, that the Communities should know what action we are taking, how far we are going and how we are monitoring it. I have therefore been able to make a budget available for twelve additional inspectors and a lawyer for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will come back to this in the autumn when the Inter-Ministerial Conference meets again and it is clear what preventive measures will be taken. Congratulations on recruiting the extra auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u36	The same applies to employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u37	Madam Minister, as early as 2013, the farmareuzen agreed at European level to make the benefits they provide to the medical world public from 2016. This was confirmed at Belgian level in the pact with the pharmaceutical sector, which was concluded last year. The Betransparent.be platform now announces that 138.5 million euros were transferred last year to doctors, nurses, pharmacists and hospitals. Of this, 65% goes to clinical studies in hospitals, 13% to research centres, 17% to fees to participate in scientific conferences and 5% to all kinds of services, such as advice and lectures. The fact that for the first time the Belgian pharmaceutical sector publishes how much money the sector transfers to institutions and healthcare providers is certainly positive. However, there are still some doubts about this, for example the fact that one third of the money does not go to clinical studies, but could be regarded as maintaining good relations, or also the fact that institutions or caregivers can refuse their participation and therefore there is no transparency with them, which means that we do not know how much money is being transferred. What initiatives do you plan to continue to work on the transparency of the relationship between pharmaceutical-care providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u38	Ms Jiroflée, the multistakeholder platform Betransparent.be is responsible for implementing the transparency of the transfer of values. The information made available via that portal of Betransparant.be is easily consultable by the public. The operation of Betransparent is based on the principle of autoregulation. As has also happened with Mdeon, autoregulation via Betransparent.be is regulated by law, so that the public authorities also have the necessary certainty about the proper functioning and the need for transparency for all pharmaceutical companies. The Act provides inter alia for the conditions of recognition for Betransparent.be. The operation of Betransparent.be will be regularly audited. The installation of the platform was part of the future pact, in which it was agreed that we would develop and launch it this year. That is what has happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I suppose there are no new initiatives in the pipeline to increase transparency. I believe that there are still a number of points of concern that could be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u40	Mr Frédéric is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u41	Madam Secretary, hospital pharmacists warn of a shortage of narcotics due to a production problem in an Italian factory of GSK. The problem has been confirmed by the FAGG. The deficit would be such that, according to hospital pharmacists, only the most necessary operations could take place in the coming summer. The FAGG fears a stock breach. Both the FAGG and the European Medicines Agency are looking for a solution such as the introduction of available products from other countries. For narcotics, specific export and import licences exist, which complicates the situation. In addition, imports of possible therapeutic alternatives are being investigated. Firstly, what is the exact extent of the problem and is there an immediate risk of supporting patients? Secondly, what are the possibilities for imports from other countries? Have contacts already been made with the firm and with other countries to help meet the temporary unavailability? Is an action plan planned to respond to the current stock breach and its consequences? Thirdly, the FAGG talks about the import of possible therapeutic alternatives. What exactly is that supposed to mean? To what extent can this provide relief for a possible stock breach?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u42	GSK Farma produces on behalf of Janssen-Cilag a whole series of narcotics that are indeed commonly used in anesthesiology. As a result of production problems at GSK Farma's Italian production site, the manufacture of sterile injectable medicinal products was suspended and the lots already produced, in stock with the manufacturers, were quarantined. Several medicines licensed in Belgium, not only from the company Janssen-Cilag, but also from other Belgian companies are involved. Other European markets are also involved. For some medicinal products authorised in Belgium, there are available therapeutic alternatives on the Belgian market or other registered manufacturers can take over production. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the most commercialized anaesthetics of the company Janssen-Cilag. At present, production has not been restarted, but the manufacturer is considering the possibility of releasing the lots already manufactured from the quarantine according to market priorities. The lottery tickets distributed for quarantined stocks are not a danger to patients. Following the stock breaches of the various injectable narcotics, the FAGG launched a call to the Belgian affiliates of pharmaceutical companies that commercialised alternatives to the anaesthetics of Janssen-Cilag, whether registered in Belgium or not, in Belgium, to explore the possibilities of importing and distributing those alternatives in Belgium. Several firms have responded positively to the FAGG and have already submitted applications for derogations to the FAGG, so that these medicines can be distributed to Belgian hospitals in good time. The AFMPS has treated and granted these requests for exemption as a matter of priority and as a matter of urgency. In order to be able to market these medicinal products here, the company must apply for a derogation. The FAGG shall give priority to those applications. They don't go in a pipeline. The import certificates for those anaesthetics shall also be dealt with as a priority by the FAGG. The FAGG has also contacted the competent authorities of the countries from which the medicines come and said that the company's priority is to place the medicines on the market in Belgium. The granting of the derogation must therefore be accelerated, with due regard, of course, for safety. In order to calculate the quantities of the different medicines per year needed to supply the Belgian market, Janssen-Cilag figures are used. There is good cooperation in this area. As far as the commission is concerned for the first few months, there is no problem. That is what we conclude from the figures that have now been given. After that, we believe that the problem should be solved through faster imports in the coming months. We are following this closely. I have to confess that all firms are very well able to transfer the information on this matter to the FAG. It does not need to be said that the FAGG is closely monitored and that additional measures will be taken if necessary. All professional organisations involved have also been kept informed of any developments in the file. The rule is that everything must be a budgetary neutral exercise for the reimbursement by health insurance. We must therefore consider the financial consequences of the scheme. That is why I asked my administrations to set up a working group, consisting of the FAGG, the RIZIV and the Public Health Office, to work together for that difficult dossier and to act until the normal situation has been restored in advance. It goes without saying that our policy cell will be kept closely informed by the working group. The situation does not, of course, give rise to problems in our country alone. It is also surprising that a problem in one factory could have such consequences for the whole of Europe. Everything is being done, but for now there is no reason to doubt that our patients are being helped. I also read in the newspapers that interventions had to be postponed. That is not the case, however.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. It is an effective comfort that, as you note, there are no problems for patients for the time being, that all the procedures can be carried out and that the situation is monitored very closely. However, it may be useful to examine, together with the company in question, what was at the root of the problem, not only from Belgium but also from other countries, if it is not only a problem for Belgium, but a problem of greater importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u44	Madam President, Minister, we have been paying sugar tax for six months, which appears to have no effect on consumption or on a healthier lifestyle. A few weeks ago, this was in the media. You may be able to improve some data if they are not correct. These figures show that one fifth of Belgians buy soft drinks and water abroad. Meanwhile, this is already 7% of the volume purchased. The quantity of soft drinks purchased per person has also increased rather than decreased. Even certain large retail chains say that the measure does not have the intended effect. In the meantime, you have entered into a voluntary commitment with the federation of the Belgian food sector FEVIA, the federation for trade and services Comeos, food companies, traders, etc. This will reduce the daily calorie intake by 5 % by the end of 2016. Madam Minister, I am usually very positive, but this time I am very sceptical. I have only one question. What guarantees do you have that your commitment can be met for a smaller daily calorie intake? What concrete action will you take to stop sugar consumption, as the sugar tax does not seem to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u45	Madam President, Minister, a lot of ink has already flowed on the soft drinks tax. I consciously say soft drinks tax because it is more of a tax that leads to revenue for the state treasury than that it contributes to the achievement of the health objectives. That was also the response of health economist Lieven Annemans when this tax was introduced. It is about the extra euro cent on the cans of soft drinks of 33 cl. I conclude from this that this measure does not contribute to reducing the number of people suffering from obesity. Another thought is the communication that went hand in hand with the introduction of this tax, with the notification of the intention to reduce our sugar consumption. However, only soft drinks are subject to this tax and other products with a lot of sugar remain out of the question. You've made a covenant with the food sector. That is a step in the right direction, but that is a longer-term effect, while the soft drink tax is a short-term effect. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Have you planned an evaluation of that sugar tax on achieving the health objectives such as reducing obesity and obesity? When will this evaluation take place? On what parameters will you have this evaluation carried out? In my view, it would be useful, when evaluated, to look at the extension to other sugars. Since the tax, as I see it, still misses its purpose, it is useful to consider whether we should extend the matter to other sugars, in addition to the covenant you have already entered into with the food sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everyone agrees that the prevalence of so-called food-related non-transferable diseases is also a European theme. We are also waiting for a European approach. Only by cooperation of all actors can sugar intake be reduced. This is an exercise with which one has to start and which needs to be continued. After all, it is a real task to bend the human desire for something that one experiences as well.That is a real task. That is why there is the initiative, together with my colleague fellow citizens from the state governments at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, to draw up a joint plan of action on nutrition and health. This should include education, encouraging movement and improving the supply of balanced food products by industry and retail. With regard to this latter aspect, we have indeed taken a step forward, in the sense that on 13 June a covenant was signed with the food industry, Fevia, and the retail sector, the supermarkets, the kitchens, the restaurant chains, represented by Comeos, which decided to reduce the energy intake of the population by 5% by the end of 2017 and again by 5% by 2020. It goes without saying that we do not live on an island and that there are not only Belgian products in the shelves and in the warehouses. Account must be taken of the business interests of the industry and of the desire to preserve the taste of the products at all times. The previous agreements concerning the use of salt have also worked. We all eat 10% less salt than before the covenant was concluded, because the salt content of products and especially of bread was adjusted very gradually. For this energy agreement, too, we provide for monitoring to measure progress. There's a lot of appointments going on right now. There will be an exchange of information, for example on the evolution of sugar in a particular product. The production process needs to be adapted accordingly. You know that sugar also helps to preserve food. For example, jam without sugar will become bad much faster. The jam jars without sugar are much smaller because they can be stored for less time. Taxation is also one of the instruments we use. In the first phase we concentrated health taxes on soft drinks. The excess of sugared beverages leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, certain cancers and also much tooth decay. A 2015 Circular study based on 62 nutrition surveys between 1980 and 2010 with more than 600 000 people from 187 countries, combined with the findings of other university studies, concluded that nearly 184 000 deaths in 2010 could only be attributed to the use of sugar in beverages. This study goes along with a long list of other studies on the harmful effects on the health of excessive consumption of sugared beverages. Due to the presence of empty calories and the absence of dietary fibers, they do not give a saturating effect which allows people to take a lot of them and still use other food. The effect of the soda tax was indeed a first step in this process. There is, of course, consultation with my colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt, on the refinement and possible extension of this health tax. In any case, it is intended to discourage the excessive consumption of products with an unbalanced composition. This must be reconciled with the fiscal feasibility and the reduction of the administrative burden on the companies concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u47	Madam Minister, I agree with you that change in behaviour is indeed very difficult; it is even one of the most difficult issues. However, the soda tax or sugar tax does not work and the question is whether it is not appropriate to simply abolish this tax. I understand, however, that European elements and the Länder need to be taken into account, and that it takes some time before a covenant has an impact. As far as the health objectives are concerned, and I have a question about this later, I do not think you should wait for common objectives at the IMC. Flanders too already has very interesting health objectives. So I think you can also formulate some yourself, not just to draw them up, but because there will then be a clear timing and a clear result.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u48	Allow me to say that there is continuous consultation in our country through the working groups of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, in order to ensure as much equality as possible as regards the maintenance of the health of our people. Mrs Dedry, your claim that we should not work out common objectives, but that I can only work out objectives is contrary to that. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health is one of the few committees that works well, and I would like to keep it that way. So I will remain collegial with my fellow Members at that inter-ministerial conference. When it comes to public health, there is no hierarchy. I have to be collegial, I work Collegially together, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u49	Madam Minister, I hear you say that you are consulting with your colleague, Mr Van Overtveld, on the tax, evaluation and possible extension of it. It is good to look at this in the context of the budgetary negotiations and to see what is still possible. It is true, as you say, that there is a need for an overall approach to obesity and obesity, and you are obviously doing so not alone, but at the Inter-Ministerial Conference with your fellow Members of the Communities. You work in the area of product improvement. That is indeed an element that you have addressed through the covenant. One important aspect that we discussed in this committee is improved nutritional labelling. We have jointly drawn up a resolution on this subject by opposition and a majority. I notice that every country in the European Union is starting to work on this and is thinking about a system. For example, colour codes are now being introduced in Spain, and quite recently we have also heard reports from France. Perhaps our recommendation could also be considered in this context. It is not a miracle solution, but it is an element that is in your competence package, namely better informing people about what is in the diet. Another element in this respect is the portion sizes in schools and amusement parks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u50	That will be taken into account in the consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u51	It is important to put an emphasis on that as well. I do not know if the amusement parks were listed, but the portion sizes seem to me, especially in places where many children come, also an element that can be really targeted in the fight against obesity and obesity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u52	Colleagues, we still have 7 or 8 questions to deal with in 35 minutes. If everyone respects his speaking time, we can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u53	Madam President, I propose to turn my question No 12891 into a written question. And depending on the answer, I will eventually come back to the minister in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u54	Perfect. Question No 12975 by Mr Raskin is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u55	Madam Secretary, pills or medications that aim to lower cholesterol also have side effects. statins, which lower poor blood cholesterol, increase the risk of diabetes among other things. There were disturbing reports from the United Kingdom. A number of patients would stop taking cholesterol inhibitors due to incorrect information, resulting in additional cardiovascular conditions. We are also at risk in our country, because there are contradictory reports in the media. That's not a good thing. Do we have less information about the side effects of statins in cholesterol decreases than about their benefits? Is there any research going on? What role and responsibility do marketing and the media have in it? Have they been too critical for the side effects, with the unintended effect of reducing patient compliance? Patients are therefore not always well informed. What role does the doctor play in this? How can we improve? Is there a need for a broader debate on benefits and risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u56	Mrs Dedry, the benefit-risk balance of all authorised medicinal products, including statins, is continuously monitored. This process of continuous pharmacovigilance is carried out by the pharmaceutical authorities, namely the Belgian Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, the FAGG, and the European Medicines Agency, the EEA, on the basis of data from among others healthcare professionals, patients and pharmaceutical companies, as well as literature studies. Regulatory actions shall be taken, if necessary, in order to reduce risk mismatches. The pharmaceutical companies are also obliged to do pharmacovigilance, but of course they have no say in any regulatory actions. Recent studies have indeed shown that high-dose statins increase the incidence of type 2 diabetes. This risk is therefore known, but it does not outweigh the profits that individuals with an increased cardiovascular risk receive from the treatment. In other words, when it was concluded that the benefit-risk ratio of statins in the treatment of high-dose diabetic patients with high-dose diabetes is actually still positive. The popular media were unfortunately less or less nuanced. In order to assess the benefit-risk balance of a medicinal product, all available data on the safety and efficacy of a medicinal product should be thoroughly analysed. That great work is carried out by a team of experts at national or European level. It is important that patients never stop treatment on their own initiative, but consult their doctor or pharmacist before stopping. Advertising of medicinal products, especially for prescription drugs such as statins, is strictly regulated in Belgium. The physician has a communication role to the patient and should also inform him about the different treatment options and the knowledge of the potential risk derivatives. It is also important that the patient does not become afraid of his treatment, which could jeopardise adherence to therapy, with all possible consequences. For some medicines, educational material is available to healthcare professionals and/or patients to reduce certain risk derivatives, e.g. a checklist for prescribers, a guide for pharmacists and patient cards. That is not yet the case for the statins. Today, the patient has more access to information than ever through the digital media. Rather, the problem seems to be that the patient must filter out the correct information from the abundance of unsophisticated or even incorrect information. In this context, there is also a role for healthcare professionals: they should guide and warn the patient about sudden discontinuation or the sudden taking of other medications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u57	Thank you for your answer. So we agree that the main pain point here is the abundance of information that patients moan on the internet. It is essential that general practitioners be well aware of this and that patients be properly informed. It is a difficult problem, which is only increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u58	We are perfectly in line with the other question. I mean it very constructively and I have even made a number of suggestions in my question that relate to healthy living environments and healthy nutrition. For example, we could reduce VAT on seasonal and local fruit, vegetables and organic products at federal level. In view of the short duration, I will not list all my examples. However, there are many health objectives ahead of us and they must be consistent with the policies of the Länder. The Länder have already taken a number of good measures which we could certainly accept so that we can work in parallel. In your policy statement, you announced that you will work with health objectives. I found a very concrete one about reducing the number of smokers to less than 17% by 2018. When can we expect more health objectives at the federal level? I am thinking of measures related to the environment, healthier nutrition and the organisation of health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u59	Mrs Dedry, in the Interkabinets Working Party on Health Goals, we have looked at the willingness of the Länder to cooperate on an inter-federal framework for the formulation of health objectives. This showed that a top-down approach at the moment is a much too complex and difficult process. That is why we have turned the wheel. In consultation with the FOD, the RIZIV, the Knowledge Centre and the Scientific Institute for Health, I have decided on a bottom-up and a more pragmatic approach. I asked the KCE to develop a methodology regarding the federal health objectives. The performance report will provide an important input to this. The KCE will provide the requested methodology in the autumn. In addition to the Performance Report, I also propose to draw up a "Health status report." This report is complementary to the Performance Report and on the basis of both reports one will set priorities and then formulate health objectives and health objectives. Of course, the IKW Health Objects will continue to exist. The members of the Länder may at any time express their wish for cooperation on health objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I look forward with enthusiasm to the autumn and the recommendations or methodology of the KCE.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u61	Madam President, I propose to turn my question No 13011 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u62	Minister, I would like to come back to osteopathy, an issue addressed by the government agreement. A KCE study has been published. In addition, an evaluation of the Act of 29 April 1999 on non-conventional practices is planned. What is the status of osteopaths and chiropractors? What do you think are the prerequisites for being recognized and exercising as an osteopath? It must then be admitted that, even if the training component is dependent on the Communities, the federal government must take this into account. Moreover, in practice, there are significant differences between the North and the South of the country. Minister, what is the number of people with osteopathy who have a degree in another health profession (medicine, kine, etc.)?( )? Are there regional differences in training and practice paths? Could you give me a few figures in this respect? One day we will have to debate and decide, because this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u63	Mrs Fonck, the osteopaths have been working under fairly vague conditions for years. I wish to change this situation. In order to reach a solution for the approval of non-conventional practices, the Colla Act of 29 April 1999 needs to be thoroughly reviewed. This approval will be organised in two phases. We will first adapt the said law and then draw up the royal decree laying down the conditions for each non-conventional practice. Discussions have begun and will continue in the coming months. Accessibility is an important criterion for the exercise of osteopathy. As I have already mentioned, it is essential to pursue a policy of evidence based medicine. The recommendations of the KCE Report 148A form the basis for the amendment of the Colla Act 1999. It goes without saying that we aspire to find a serious solution for the patient. The security of the latter occupies a central place. Access to conventional and evidence-based treatments must be encouraged at all times. As regards the criteria defined by the group of professions, the parties concerned will also be heard in a second phase. According to the KCE 148A report, 83% of active osteopaths have previously graduated in physiotherapy and 1% have graduated in medicine; 57% of osteopaths are in Flanders, 28.9% in Wallonia and 13.5% in Brussels. Since osteopaths and chiropractors are not yet officially registered, I am not yet able to provide you with the figures for the exercise of these professions. According to the national health survey carried out by the PSI in 2013, 1% of the population visited a chiropractor in 2013 (1.5% in Flanders, 0.2% in Brussels and 0.4% in Wallonia); 5.7% of the population visited an osteopath in Belgium (5% in Flanders, 6.5% in Brussels and 6.6% in Wallonia). So there are differences between the two areas, but it is the patient who chooses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say you've started discussions, I imagine it's not the government but in consultation with the actors on the ground. Of course, we have to work on evidence based. You talked about safety, but I would add the element of quality, which is just as important. I would like to draw your attention to the practice of a profession or practice, because differences can sometimes be significant depending on the regions. It is seen in the case of psychomotority or psychotherapy, and it will also be seen, with varying degrees of difference, for kine. I stress the importance of working with an approach that allows different practices and training to be taken into account in different regions. But this does not mean that the main principles are not respected, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u65	Question No 12975 by Mr Wouter Raskin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u66	Minister, I have asked you a number of questions about your decision to reduce the length of hospitalisation after a ludicrous birth, and the savings you have anticipated as a result of this measure. I made this suggestion to you of midwives' accompaniment. You had anticipated significant savings as a result of this measure. This measure has been challenged by the Council of State, in particular but not only, on the retroactive effect of the application of this measure. The Council of State has just annulled your decision on the contribution, following the appeal brought by the Epicura hospital, to the planned savings of EUR 18.7 million for all hospitals. Minister, I have no doubt that you have read this decision of the Council of State. How are you going to answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u67	I have read the decision of the Council of State in which the service of the budget of the funds to the order of the Epicura hospital was cancelled. The judgment concerns only one plea in law, retroactivity, and did not rule on the merits of the other pleas in law. In other words, it was not the economy measure itself that was cancelled by the Council of State, but the fact that the conversion of the measure took too long, so that the application of the measure on 1 January was not legally justified. The lawyer of the Belgian State is currently examining with the lawyer of the opposing party how a re-establishment of law could be linked to it. I believe that, in order to deal with the case properly, a solution must be found in which all hospitals, including those that have not filed a complaint, will be treated on an equal footing. You will understand that I cannot pronounce myself on this solution now; negotiations with the opposing parties are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u68	Minister, more generally, there are repeated savings that follow and have an impact on the situation of hospitals when you know that hospital is anything but simple. This was one of several measures. The Council of State has decided. I know that in the meantime, you have already changed the measure of stay shortened to maternity, but without lifting the savings that accompany it. This is obviously not acceptable. I am told that you would like to transform the 2015 "reduced length of stay" funding line into a budgetary effort in BMF 2016. This seems to me to be a "truth" to circumvent the decision of the Council of State, which would absolutely not be acceptable in terms of principles. You have imposed a measure of stupid and wicked economy and hospitals are singularly impacted, including those who were already very attentive to try to reduce the length of stay after delivery in the best possible conditions. This has had an impact on the women concerned, particularly those most isolated or in a situation of greater insecurity, women who are known that early return to their homes sometimes leads to difficulties for them and newborns. I will come back to you on this matter and I hope that the decision will not be contrary to the opinion of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u69	Madam Chair, Minister, I will not go back in detail on the custody agreement. However, I had a few questions to ask you about this. New childcare positions will now need to have an agreement plan before they can obtain funding. Existing guard stations have until the end of 2017 to conclude an agreement plan. Can you tell me what's on the record? Is the agreement plan already implemented? If so, do they encounter obstacles? Can individual files already be reintroduced? If not, when is this planned? Do you have a timetable for the plan drawn up by the Task Force? With regard to the existing guard stations, can you confirm to me that they are all aware of the existence of this agreement plan and the obligation to conclude one by the end of 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u70	Madam Chair, first of all, it should be noted that the INAMI services officially communicated the Memorandum of Understanding document to the guard stations on June 1, 2016. In the Communication, it is clear which timetable will be applied for the work at the local level and at the level of INAMI. As you mention, existing initiatives must have an agreement before the end of 2017 and the Communication of 1 June 2016 itself mentions that further messages and instructions will follow, in particular if developments in the policy on the organisation of non-programmable care so require or as part of possible changes in the terms or conditions of funding of general medical care posts. In the meantime, the insurance committee has already dealt with new applications. Some have obtained a positive opinion because they meet the conditions. For others, this was not the case; they were denied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u71	Thank you, Minister. I wanted to take stock with you before the holidays on this important issue. I will take note of all the criteria set. I have already spoken to you about rural areas; I hope the criteria have been adapted for them. I'll be back by the end of the year to take stock of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u72	Minister, as part of the transposition into Belgian law of Regulation EU 536/2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products has worked for a year and a half with the Conference of Academic Hospitals of Belgium (CHAB) and representatives of the 24 fully accredited ethics committees. This collaboration resulted in a project that received the consent of all stakeholders. However, these different actors tell us that their work has been short-circuited by the announcement of another project, aimed in particular at establishing a National Ethics College, which will be able – without any obligation – to seek advice from the various ethics committees. In addition, it plans to prohibit the Clinical Trial Site Medical Ethics Board from being involved and to access the trial file in question. Minister, on what criteria did you use to give up collective work and come with another project? Do you not fear that there will be a widening gap between practitioners and this national college? Will there not be problems in terms of procedural delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u73	Mrs Gerkens, I would like to point out that the new bill has yet to be passed into the Council of Ministers and cannot therefore be considered to have been completed. In addition, consultations with the various actors concerned (CHAB, pharma.be, ethics committees) have taken place and are still planned for the coming months in order to prepare and finalise the royal implementing decrees and other internal regulations. The bill as a whole only reflects Regulation EU 536/2014, which specifies the points left to the responsibility of the Member States. It does not allow the status quo. A change is therefore necessary. The new organization does not endanger the safety of patients. On the contrary, through increased professionalization of the College's evaluators, harmonization of procedures, systematic use of an approved and selected ethics committee based on its expertise and the requirements of the clinical trial, as well as the possibility of soliciting external experts, the safety and well-being of individuals involved in clinical trials should be strengthened and decisions made more consistent. This is an erroneous perception among the members of the College. Some are field players recognized for their expertise in specific areas. In addition, field experience will be systematically provided through the opinion of an approved ethics committee and, possibly, by either expert. One of the characteristics of the new European regulation is to harmonise the evaluation deadlines which will be common to all Member States. The other feature is a single submission via a single European point of contact. For most trials, this means that even if the evaluation deadlines were shorter in Belgium, this would not make the country more attractive, since the decision is no longer dependent only on Belgium but also on the other Member States. The deadlines provided for in the draft law are therefore in accordance with the European regulation. However, it is still possible to impose shorter deadlines for certain types of tests. This is foreseen in particular for mononational phase 1 trials, thus allowing Belgium to remain attractive for this type of clinical trial. For Phase 1, there are two weeks. This will be confirmed in the royal decrees of execution. The model to which you refer has never been finalized or approved by all stakeholders. Among the problematic elements in this model, I note its non-compliance with the requirement of the European Regulation that "persons responsible for validating and evaluating the application are not in a conflict of interest situation, are independent of the sponsor, the clinical trial site, as well as the investigators involved in the clinical trial and persons funding the clinical trial and are free from any other unjustified influence". If a solution is possible by using the committee of another hospital in single-centre trials or limited to a small number of centres, this is not possible in the case of multi-centre studies involving a larger number of centres, knowing that the model envisaged by CHAB rightly provided for a reduction in the number of approved committees to eight, a reduction confirmed in the model adopted in the bill. Another element is the lack of harmonization of current procedures within existing committees and the desire to increase the professionalism and expertise of evaluators, as well as the consistency of decisions in order to make our country more attractive to the pharmaceutical world. A single, clear, simplified and predictable procedure is essential to this end. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive in the European landscape, it has been important for me to be part of the European trend towards centralisation and greater harmonization of procedures, bearing in mind that the other European leader in clinical trials, namely Denmark, has already significantly reduced the number of ethics committees, which has risen to three to date. It plans to move on to a single national committee. Two important elements emerge: first, patient safety. The neighbouring countries have shown us how careful we need to be with regard to patient safety in clinical trials. We must also implement the European directive in our country, which requires a reduction in the number of ethical committees and an alignment of procedures and deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic470x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. One of the specific features of Belgium, for the time being, is security and speed. We rarely have any concerns about this. This means that the current system also has advantages in its operation. I agree with you in terms of harmonisation and in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest. On the other hand, I think it is important to maintain the link between the ethical committees and the various sites. Indeed, it systematically enables ethical reflection to be confronted with the actors of a hospital, patients and sponsors. But we will have the opportunity to come back later if necessary.
