ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 21 October the VSOA police union in De Tijd proposed a raise for the police. In concrete terms, they asked for a linear wage premium after 15 years of wage freeze, as well as the continuation of the wageable rates that would now stop after 25 years. VSOA wants to challenge the perception that policemen would earn too much and accumulate huge fees. Apparently that was a reaction to you, because they asked for concrete figures and examples that show and document that police people receive double wages thanks to the many contributions. One of the three priorities that you put forward in your portfolio last year is to review the different contributions from the police. Minister, I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. First of all, what is the state of play in this file? Have you already taken action in a dossier that you have identified as one of the three priorities within your competence? If so, what is the state of play? Secondly, can you effectively demonstrate that some police staff can benefit from double wages thanks to these contributions, as is claimed? Thirdly, for the sake of completeness, can you provide a list of all the different types of contributions for police officers and the corresponding amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u2	Mr Top, you will not have missed the fact that, at the beginning of the legislative period, we had the pension debate in relation to the police as a result of a judgment of the Constitutional Court. Then there was the key task debate. That was taken to the Core just before Christmas. I will explain it here in committee next week. Now is indeed the time to address the next priority, namely the very difficult discussion on the Statute. We're going to deal with that theme. It is no less difficult because we decided in the coalition agreement that this should be done within a closed envelope. Together with the social partners, we will examine whether and how the money can be used more functionally. That's the challenge. However, this work has yet to start. As far as your second question is concerned, of course, I am not looking at individual pay sheets. In certain circumstances, it may indeed be the case that a large number of hours are worked on certain services, night hours, weekend hours and overtime. Police work is unthinkable without us having those possibilities. From time to time people are confronted with unusual situations in the last year, a good example of this is the need for the police to be involved. So I'm not really making that a problem. More politically, however, it is the case that the whole set of elements of remuneration in the police statute slightly disrupts the tension between the different frameworks. It's an amalgam. That will be taken into account in the thinking exercise. The list you asked me for, I have here. I'll hand them over to you. Work has yet to begin in this area. The legislature lasts five years and we're gonna take the time to do it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u3	Thank you, Minister, your last sentence is actually a question I would like to put in the reply. In reply to my first question, you said that the key tasks debate will be here next week. You'll have to get started on the statute. That will certainly not be less difficult, especially if it has to be done within a closed envelope. However, my supplementary question concerns timing. You yourself indicated that it should be done within the five years of the legislature. Do you effectively put that at the forefront? Do you have an effective timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u4	I believe that it is more important to make this exercise right and thorough than to pin it on a timing. There's no point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u5	Okay. But that is so pronounced and agreed with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u7	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, during football matches, supporters sometimes commit unfortunate acts in stadiums. It is essential that follow-up be carried out and that troublemakers be punished. It seems, however, that a number of recent events have gone unpunished. Due to a lack of information transmission between the various police areas concerned, namely those of Liège and Brussels-Midi, in relation to the Standard match of Liège-RSC Anderlecht. Generally speaking, how are the exchanges of information between these police areas taking place? Can you explain the problems involved? Is the Inspector General competent to investigate these malfunctions or should Committee P intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u8	Mr Devin, the joint MFO3 directive of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior deals in general with the management of information by the judicial and administrative police. Based on the incident reports of the last meetings between the Liège Standard and the RSC Anderlecht teams and the various articles in the press on this subject, it seems that the subject of your question is about the deterioration of seats by supporters of the second team. The administrative duties to be carried out – identifications, hearings and verbalisations – following incidents during a football match are the subject of special agreements between the police areas concerned in order to determine the respective tasks: who provides the images, who verbalizes the identified supporters, etc.- Is that what you're saying? The contacts with the police areas of Liège and Brussels-Midi show that the former transmitted images to the latter for the purpose of exploitation and reporting in case of positive identification on the basis of the materials provided, but that Brussels-Midi never received them. Following the publication of a press article, the Brussels-Midi police zone asked the Liège police to send him a copy of the images, the analysis of which did not formally identify the authors of the damage. As far as this is necessary in this case, both the Inspectorate General and Committee P would be competent to identify possible police malfunctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u9	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u10	Minister, during a previous round of questions on illegal arms trafficking, you said that the phenomenon has not yet been eradicated. The National Security Plan 2016-2018 should further define the approach to the issue. That plan would be ready by the end of 2015. The fight against the illegal arms trade would be pursued more intensively. A few months ago, the Flemish Peace Institute stated that Belgium is making too little effort to curb the illegal arms trade. According to the researchers of the Peace Institute, weapons are of secondary importance in police investigations, but the police urgently need to work on a good image of weapons used in crime in the future. The increased threat of terror once again brought Belgium to the international spotlight as a driving force behind the illegal arms trade. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Is the National Security Plan 2016-2018 already ready? Does this plan regard the handling of illegal arms trafficking as a priority? What approach do you intend to take to address the problem? Finally, what steps have been taken in the meantime in the field of the imaging of weapons used in crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u11	Mr Top, the National Security Plan is based on the Integrated Security Framework Paper. The framework note Integral Security and the National Security Plan are in their final phase. On 17 February 2016, there will be the Interministerial Committee. As you know, the framework paper is drawn up in consultation with the Regions. The final approval is scheduled at the Interministerial Committee on 17 February 2016, in mid-February. The National Security Plan will also be ready around that time. It is now also in the final phase. Since both plans still need formal approval, it is difficult for me to identify the priorities now. However, I would like to mention the measures already taken and planned for the police in connection with the illegal arms trade. In the new National Security Plan, the arms trade becomes an important topic, on which it is clearly focused. You are right to say that we are also called upon and paid for internationally. Because arms trade is often linked to other forms of crime and because arms trade takes place in an international context, there will be a broad programme approach. In the National Security Plan, therefore, you will probably not find a priority under a separate item "military arms trade', but in the context of the fight against terrorism, including internationally, the focus will certainly be on arms trafficking and we will also use a specific programme approach to this. At EU level, international projects have also been referred to as "Empact" projects. The National Security Plan will include that we fully cooperate in this. What approach do we have in mind? Apart from the broad programme we are developing in the National Security Plan, the police have already taken a number of steps to better exploit the information on weapons. For example, a new database is being developed, together with the Justice Department, which will contain all the seized goods, including weapons. At present, they are registered manually on a form. That form shall be sent together with the weapons to the Registry and a copy thereof to the police area of the residence of the person concerned. However, it is intended to create a national database so that that information is shared with everyone who needs it. A second measure currently under way by the judiciary and the police concerns the amendment of the legislation on eavesdropping. This adaptation is necessary in order to make effective use of the measures provided for in an investigation into illegal entry, exit and transit and the transfer of arms to, from or through the Belgian territory. The amendment is due, among other things, to the regionalisation of powers in 2003, with certain original federal issues now being the responsibility of the Regions. International trade is an example of this. With regard to your third question on the steps taken in the meantime on the imaging of weapons used in crime, the improvement of the image of weapons will be part of the National Security Plan. We find that we are now missing a lot of information, which is why the imagery, and therefore a better registration, is extremely important for this. Let me give you a few examples. When a weapon is now used in facts such as theft, loss, fraud or healing, it is recorded in the minutes and recorded in the ANG, the police database. However, when the weapon is not seized, the precision of the registration usually depends on the description by victims or witnesses. That will be included in the new Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u12	Minister, I have a very brief reply. We continue to press for this to be done quickly. This is a tricky and delicate problem that needs to be addressed very quickly. Solving completely and completely will probably be a utopia and remain. I have a specific question about the new database that is being developed together with the Justice Department. You say that's what you're doing. Is there a timing set there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u13	I don't have it, but I'll get it and let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u14	Mr Minister, after the attacks in Paris, the whole debate to merge the six Brussels police zones into a zone was resumed. The debate is indeed not new, the Flemish parties have been asking for this for years. Following these attacks, of course, all Flemish parties, including your party, Minister, and CD&V, have stepped up their plea for a merger. The reason why the merger has not been completed after all these years is, of course, the resistance of the 19 Brussels baronies themselves. After all, they fear that this will restrict their power. I myself have looked into this in the legislation. I have not found anything that indicates that the 19 Brussels Baronies would have a right of veto against a merger of the six police zones. I have only found that it belongs to you and to your colleague of Justice to take the necessary steps in this respect. Article 9 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service states: "After the opinion of the mayors concerned, who consult the municipal councils on the matter, the Attorney General and the Governor on a proposal for a classification by the Minister of the Interior, the King shall, by a royal decision of the Council of Ministers on the nomination of those ministers of the Interior and of Justice, divide the territory of the provinces and of the administrative district of Brussels Capital into police zones. To this end, the boundaries of the judicial districts are respected, except as regards the municipalities of several judicial districts. Mr Minister, my questions are very specific. Is it true that the Brussels mayors and the Brussels municipal councils have no right of veto, that they cannot oppose the fusion of the six police zones? Secondly, as a result of the first question, will you, together with your colleague in the judiciary, carry out such a merger? You're both convinced with us that that's necessary, aren't you? Thirdly, when will you start that process? What's to stop you from doing that? Will you take an initiative in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u15	Following on from my reply to the written question by Conseil Degroote and the oral questions by Mrs Jadin and Mr Thiébaut, I repeat that it is desirable that all police areas should make an in-depth reflection to determine whether a merger could be valuable in their case. The best merger is the merger that meets a local demand and is therefore voluntary. Since this is a free will for cooperation proposed by local authorities, it is difficult to talk about a right of veto for the mayors and municipal councils concerned. That is not the issue here. Article 9 of the Police Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service structured at two levels must be read in its original meaning at the time of police reform and the division of the Empire into police zones. The then proposed classification of the Minister for the Interior required an opinion from the relevant administrative and judicial authorities. In the context of the merger, the article of the Act cited refers solely to the respect of the boundaries of the judicial districts in the classification of the territory into police zones. However, in the case of a merger of police zones, reference should be made to Articles 91 (1) et seq. and 257d (1) et seq. of the same law, which deal with the voluntary amalgamation of police zones and their consequences. The delineation of the new territorial area of office is the first step in the merging process. It follows from the joint application for merger of the respective municipal or police councils. Within the new territory, a new local police service must be set up by the local authorities concerned. It is therefore just a request from local authorities to arrive at the relevant classification or fusion zone. There is therefore no question of intervention, given that the classification in the current context is not a proposal from the Minister for the Interior on which an opinion should be sought from the relevant administrative and judicial authorities. The rules, in this case the law on the integrated police, do not provide for a possibility to impose the merger of the upper hand. As already stated, it is up to the municipal or police councils, if they so wish, to jointly apply to the Ministers for the Interior and Justice for the merger of their former police zones. In other words, there must be a desire for cooperation among the administrative authorities. I repeat, therefore, that there is no point in changing the territory from above if no local police can then be replaced by the local authorities concerned. In the light of recent events, I understand your question, but I think it would be more appropriate for a possible initiative in this area to be a result of a political and parliamentary debate. This is necessary in order to amend the legislation of the integrated police in this area. I repeat, with the state of the law today, we, the federally competent ministers, cannot push through anything in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u16	Minister, I am disappointed in your answer. I understand that it must go through parliamentary channels, but I have seen the very first meeting of the temporary committee on terror. The first thing Mrs Onkelinx said there was that there would only be issues on which there was consensus and that a merger of police zones certainly did not belong to that. It is therefore very naive to hope that it will succeed in this direction. I had hoped that you would at least take the initiative, that the Flemish majority in the government would finally show its added value. The Flemish parties have been in favour of this for years. In this way, of course, it will never happen, against the will of the majority, but also with all the consequences for its security. I would have appreciated a little more initiative on this matter in the police areas concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u17	Mr Minister, rule 130 of our Rules of Procedure specifies that "interpellations shall be developed within 15 days of their dispatch". My inquiry was filed on 14 December and it is 13 January. Questions on this subject have been raised for the committee meeting on 16 December. I would have liked the inquiry to be attached to it. Minister, when the president and the first vice-president of the Standing Committee on Local Police resigned, the terms used were particularly harsh. I quote: "For some time, the CPPL has been manoeuvring in rough waters. Through this initiative, they want to focus attention on a lack of support and listening on the part of both the federal police and the relevant federal authorities. The Bureau and the General Assembly note that at the highest level their arguments find little or no listening and that the aspirations of the local police are not sufficiently taken into account." Two examples are cited, revealing the lack of consultation with local police representatives. With regard to the announcement of the EUR 400 million which is of interest to us all, the CPPL would not have been consulted so much that, according to the resignations, "the local police will see nothing of these 400 million and the decision-making process, considered unilateral in the ICT file, in which the federal police would have imposed on the local police, without appropriate consultation, its strategic choices and their realization in the field of computer science and the exchange of information between the federal and local police". These are two extremely important elements both from a budgetary and an organisational point of view. I quote one last passage: "For the general assembly of the CPPL, the cup is full. We are obliged to represent the local police, but we are constantly upset about this effort. A model of police that deliberately does not listen to the local component opens doors for a police that moves away from the population." Minister, the Standing Committee on Local Police is an essential body in the implementation of a community police, as defined in the founding text of the integrated police organized on two levels. The CPPL has found, however, that it is, at least, the poor relative of the policy that you are currently pursuing. The Optimization Act of 26 March 2014 established an Integrated Police Coordination Committee where the CPPL sits alongside the Federal Police Steering Committee. This coordinating committee shall, inter alia, issue reasoned opinions on the collective police policy or on the strategy of the integrated local police in the areas of personnel, logistics, TCI, budget and information. However, we must note that the CPPL does not have the means to meet this mission properly, without a permanent structure with the means to assume its new responsibilities. My colleague Nawal Ben Hamou has already questioned you in the context of your policy note on the fact that the appropriations related to the secretariat are very uncertain and that the staff seconded to these functions must consider being repatriated to their original corps. But the malaise expressed is even more serious. This is a particularly strong act against what must appear to be a clear lack of interest on your part to the local police. Some even consider that the current situation poses a serious threat to the balance of our integrated, two-tiered police force. The municipality remains the level closest to the citizen. It is therefore essential to maintain its role in prevention and security policies and to strengthen consultation with local authorities. Just as it is essential to maintain the role of community policing as a public service for the population, as well as prevention, intelligence-gathering and the suppression of crime. The local police exercise the basic police, which is the front line of the population. It is also the ears and eyes of the police in general. As you know, the fight against radicalisation and terrorism largely depends on the information gathered on the ground, particularly by the local police. In this context, federal funding of the local police must be a priority. It is imperative that a significant part of the €400 million announced by your government benefit local police areas, so that they can increase their real staff capacity to ensure their security missions for the benefit of the entire population. It is your responsibility to provide an equivalent minimum service throughout the country. This is one of the key principles of police reform. What attitude do you intend to take with respect to the CPPL and the grievances addressed to you by this representative body? Since the writing of the question, I know you've had contacts. How do you intend to operate this body that is essential to our integrated, two-tiered police? In this regard, it is my responsibility that you will attend the CPPL General Assembly tomorrow. Can you already reserve us the first part of your message? More important: what are your intentions towards the local police, who must not only suffer cuts in federal funding, but who would also unfortunately be excluded from the extraordinary funding provided by the government for security issues? Minister, it is essential, after meeting with several interlocutors, to reinforce the feeling that you have perceived the balance to be maintained in our police, as organized by the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u18	Mr Demeyer, I have already answered various questions on this subject. First of all, I share 200% of your opinion on the importance of local police. So this is not the discussion. As I acknowledged earlier, I have not paid sufficient attention, not to the local police, but to the CPPL. The members were therefore right to note my lack of attention. After the incident, I had a first meeting with President Brabant. We contacted the CPPL and the federal police to respond tomorrow, at the general meeting at 10.30 a.m., to the six specific questions asked to me. For the sake of courtesy, I reserve the earliest of my response to the CPPL. I'll be able to let you know next week when we discuss key policing tasks. I have already told the President of the CPPL that I would like to hold monthly meetings to discuss the various issues. The consultation committee between the federal police and the local police commission is something quite new. This committee, in which I do not participate, has not yet found the right way to work. We will therefore make an effort to help them find the right way to work together. The work of the local police commission is not very easy. It is not easy to represent the 192 zones, which have very different sizes. I will give some direction tomorrow, but I think we still need to think about it. There are large areas, there are rural areas and their problems are quite different. Sometimes, in the same discussion, some areas take opposing positions, which makes it difficult for the committee to find a common position. It is therefore still necessary to reflect, perhaps in collaboration with the Conference of the Bourgmasters, on how to improve this collaboration. With regard to the 400 million, they will also have to benefit the police areas concerned, which play a role in the fight against terrorism. I will meet with the chairman of the committee every month and tomorrow I will give him answers to his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u19	Minister, I would like to ask you next week about your statements of tomorrow! I table a motion of recommendation, as I am authorized by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u20	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Willy Demeyer and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Willy Demeyer and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to article 91 of the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured on two levels; - having regard to the Royal Decree of 7 December 2006 on the Standing Committee on Local Police; - having regard to the common memorandum of the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities, according to which it is essential to ensure effective cooperation between the federal authorities, the federal police, the mayors and the police areas; Whereas it is essential, in the area of police, to lay down the conditions for further cooperation and cooperation between the local police areas and the federal police; - Whereas the Standing Committee on Local Police is intended to function effectively as a representative of positions in local police areas, asks the Minister to improve the functioning of the Standing Committee on Local Police, in particular by providing it with sufficient resources to prepare and support its work." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Willy Demeyer and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, - having regard to Article 91 of the Law of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, - having regard to the Royal Decree of 7 December 2006 on the Standing Committee of Local Police, - having regard to the joint memorandum of the three associations of cities and municipalities, which states that effective consultation between the federal authorities, the federal police, the mayors and the police zones is crucial; - whereas it is essential to create favourable conditions for more intensive cooperation and consultation between local police areas and the federal police; - whereas the Standing Committee of Local Police wishes to perform its function properly as an interpreter of the views of local police areas, asks the Minister improve the functioning of the Standing Commission of Local Police by providing them with sufficient resources to prepare and accompany its work." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. With the kind agreement of his colleagues, Mr Demeyer asked for a question to be put forward which he attached to Mr Calomne's question. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u21	Deputy Prime Minister, as part of your plan to reform police duties, presented in December 2015, one aspect of my attention was particularly important. This project refers, and I quote, to "the optimisation of the commitment of private guarding for the monitoring of critical points, specific areas or at certain events". This means that private agents could come to police support, for certain events or at certain locations, on an ad hoc basis. In this context, these officers would have so-called second-line tasks, the aim being for the police to focus on their essential tasks. Mr. Minister, could you please tell us what are, on the one hand, the essential tasks to be carried out by police officers and, on the other hand, the second line tasks of private personnel? What will be precisely the powers given to private agents within this framework and the limits of these powers? In addition, would the proposed reform lead to an amendment to the Private Security Act? If so, what order will these changes be? Finally, could you tell us in detail what types of events will be, but also the critical points for which this use of private guarding in support of the police will be foreseen, as well as the specific areas that are in the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u22	Mr President, I thank my colleagues for their kindness. The Communication of 22 December 2015 on the debate on key tasks announces several action plans. Greater use will be made of the private sector for missions that are now under the control of the administrative police (the monitoring of critical points) or the judicial police (the use of dogs) or video surveillance. Also included are the reduction of certain services such as cavalry, the abolition of certain missions, the internal medical service, the requisitions during strikes or road education, the outsourcing of several services, the internal postal service and the reporting of incidents. If we combine these elements, on the one hand, with the structural under-commitment to the police - I recall the limitation to 800 aspiring officers per year, whereas they could be 1,400 before - and, on the other hand, with the departures to the pension in the next few years - according to the unions, no less than 2,500 police officers would be involved very soon - we can fear that the police force will melt down in the next few years. This will be done at the expense of the quality of police public service, field presence and police capacity, including those tasks that you will retain or declare as priorities. This is reflected in the communication made by your office, which announces in a surprising way 2,500 additional staff on the ground: 450 in the local police, 400 for the federal police and 1,660 for a new body. Minister, can you tell us if there are commitments in the coming years for these priority tasks? If so, how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Next week we will have a presentation on this subject followed by a more in-depth discussion. I can already tell you a few things about private guarding. In accordance with the Government's agreement, it has been planned to develop new and simplified legislation aimed, inter alia, at enabling private security companies to perform certain tasks that are not key tasks of the police. It goes without saying that this initiative will take account of the reflection on defining the key tasks of the police services. In the context of the debate on key tasks, it appeared that the commitment of private guarding to the monitoring of critical points, specific areas or at certain events could be optimised. I can quote you, for example, the commitment of private carers on public roads and in very specific circumstances and places, which are very limited by local administrative authorities: commercial streets during periods of sale or industrial areas. Such external perimeter monitoring should therefore be possible, free of restrictions on a physical barrier or temporary privatization of public space. My services are in the process of implementing these measures and examining the necessary changes in the context of the overall assessment of private safety regulations. A modern police force must be able to respond flexibly to the expectations and challenges of a changing society. Taking into account the many security challenges, on the one hand, and the budgetary context and the limited police capacity, on the other hand, I have been entrusted, in accordance with the government agreement, with taking the necessary measures to free the police from certain non-essential tasks and to refocus them on their essential operational tasks. The debate on key tasks is therefore not a goal in itself but a means of achieving the following main objectives. As for the local police, we are considering increasing the availability 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, of rapid police assistance and the proximity character of the local police. For the federal police, I want to strengthen the integrated functioning and significantly increase its police force in several priority areas of security, such as terrorism and violent extremism. The 20 measures proposed in Kern and approved on 22 December must create an oxygen bubble. They will free up the capacity of 450 local and 400 federal police officers, who can be redirected to the core tasks and objectives outlined above. The creation of a new surveillance and protection department of 1,660 people will have to optimize all existing missions and capabilities in this area. As for future commitments, the recruitment of 800 police officers was budgeted for 2016 in the same way as last year. An estimate of future police needs which will take into account the effect of optimisation, the debate on key tasks and departures on the basis of the new pension rules has yet to be made. It may have an effect on future recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u24	I have taken note of the various measures and examples that you have mentioned in relation to private guarding - shopping streets, industrial areas,... - as well as the beacons that you suggest. How long will it take to amend the Act? I welcome the increased availability of local police 7 days a week and 24 hours a day. It is important to have this vision of strengthening community policing. I am part of the Brussels-Capital - Ixelles area where we have been asking for the strengthening of community policing for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u25	I thank the minister for his answers and I reserve for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u26	Mr. Calomne, the deadline for the introduction of the Private Custody Bill is the first part of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u27	Minister, I have already expressed my reservations about the government's decision to restart the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 power plants following the favourable opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) which was delivered in November last year. Since then, several voices have been added to mine to express their fears. The question I am about to ask had already been raised during last week's debates, but it is becoming more topical because yesterday's press is giving us news from Germany. Last week, you said you had contact with the German authorities. However, according to the press, following the new breakdowns in two Belgian nuclear power plants, the German Minister of the Environment, Barbara Hendricks, sent a list of 15 questions to AFCN. These relate to the monitoring and evaluation procedures as well as the safety guarantees for the tanks of the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors. That is what the Ministry of the Environment said on Tuesday morning in Berlin. This is a new element. In the article, I also read that the recent incidents have strengthened the German environmental organisations and the authorities of Rhineland and North Westphalia in their repeated desire for years to see the installation located near Germany permanently closed. According to the experts and technicians of the German Ministry, the problems detected in the reactor wall are likely to affect the safety conditions during the operation of the plant. Minister, would the German experts have another analysis of the problem of micro-cracks of Tihange 2 and Doel 3 than the AFCN experts? Have you been aware of these questions addressed to AFCN by the German Minister of the Environment? This is still an inquiry by the minister of a neighbouring country. Can you tell me more about this inquiry and the nature of the questions that were asked at the AFCN?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u28	Mr President, I will develop my questions one after the other. I am fully aware that the minister will include them in a single response. First, concerning the sabotage of Doel 4, it has now been more than 17 months (nearly a year and a half) that a sabotage of a scale never reached took place at the Doel 4 nuclear power plant. Is the investigation still under way? What do you know about this investigation? In particular, it is known that some workers have at some point refused to submit to the lie detector. What exactly is the situation? Have there been any other investigative duties? Are some of them still in progress? Is the identity of the author or authors known? Taking a little distance from the facts on which I am asking you, I would also like to know your reflection on the situation. As far as the investigation is concerned, I know you're referring the matter to the Minister of Justice. How do you, as Minister of the Interior, experience the fact that an incident of such importance and potential gravity remains unexplained to date? Does this not affect you in terms of the ability to secure enough tools such as a nuclear power plant? I know how much, quite rightly, you want to act quickly in the face of threats of attack, and here an act was committed and a little more than 17 months later, we still don't know anything. It worries me just as much as the threats and risks of attacks, but I do not hear you in the same way on this subject. I will therefore listen carefully to your answer. Let me turn to my second question on possible clearance measures. I know that the two are not necessarily linked, but they have been joined in this debate. On 6 October, the French High Commissioner for the Defence of Nuclear Safety confirmed that employees were denied access to the power stations, while acknowledging that they had not committed a crime and that there was an arbitrariness in the decisions taken. On 4 November, it was more specific in stating that its services were taking one person a week out of the power stations, given the risk that they might represent. What about Belgium? How many workers have been denied access to power plants in the last two years? For what specific reasons? Are these measures also applied to subcontractors? More generally, can you tell us what the rules are and what their legal basis are? I must admit that I am surprised at your request to consolidate my questions, although I understand that the debate is about the incidents that my colleague has mentioned. I say that for the next meetings. I come to my third question, which deals with recent incidents at the various nuclear power plants. I am aware that we have discussed this very recently in the subcommittee, but the discussion had not yet taken place at the time when I tabled my questions. Minister, just four days after being re-launched, Doel 3 had to stop producing urgently on Christmas night as a result of a leak of water in a power generator. How is it that this problem was not detected during the 21 months of shutdown and multiple tests? This incident follows another incident on 18 December. A fire broke out in Tihange 1 power plant. Once again, there is the question of the age of the plant's devices, which has been extended for a period of ten years, clearly without all parts of the plant being able to perform their functions. Minister, what are the causes of these two incidents? What lessons do you learn from it? What remedies are in place to prevent such incidents from happening again in the future? I have a very specific question that we have not been able to address at the same time. During the fire in the Tihange transformer, was there any dioxin release? I would like to ask this question because it may be that the transformer is loaded into a flammable polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) caloriporter fluid, still known as pyralene. I'm going on with the arrest. Technical incidents and failures are increasing in our old and cracked nuclear power plants. In less than three weeks, three plants had to be shut down as a matter of urgency. It was first a fire that broke out on a transformer in Tihange 1 on 18 December. Then, on the night of 24-25 December, the Doel 3 reactor had to be shut down completely following the discovery of a leak in the generator. Then it was the turn of the Doel 1 reactor to be stopped on 2 January following a problem on its alternator. Meanwhile, a new problem had been detected in the circuit breaker that connects the Doel 3 alternator to the high voltage network, resulting in a postponement of its restart. The timing of these stops is also particularly challenging. They all happened right after a reboot. Doel 3 had just been relaunched on 21 December, Doel 1 on 30 December. Tihange 1, also a victim of a power pump failure on 18 September, was out of an interview that had ended two days earlier. I turn to the serious act of vandalism against Doel 4 in August 2014 as I have already addressed it in the previous question. Beyond the explanations that parliamentarians and citizens are entitled to expect from you on each of these problems, I would like to highlight the fact that this black series is also a reflection of the outdated facilities and the lack of adequate maintenance. Professor Ernst, a great specialist at the University of Liège, considers in The Last Hour of January 4 that all this is related to the fact that they (Electrabel) do not do sufficient preventive maintenance. They have a Run to fail doctrine: they hold the pieces to the break. Of course, as Electrabel does with every new incident, I assume that unlike Professor Ernst's scientific comments, you will minimize the problem. You will probably tell us that we are on the right average or, as on radio, that everything is fine, since the plant has automatically stopped. I thought that note was a nice touch of humor on your part. However, I urge you not to take into account the particularly disparaging statement made by the spokesman for this company, which considered on the RTBF Radio on 4 January, shortly before 6 p.m., that now, whenever a simple bolt is defective, it becomes a political problem. We're talking about an alternator, a generator, here it's talking about a bolt... You might have to remind this company that during the year 2015, the power plants as a whole turned less than a day out of two. Do you know many companies that are stopping more than a day out of two? If we are to question you today, Minister, it is not because a bolt was not tight, it is also because this multiplication of incidents raises the question of the safety of workers and citizens living around their old or cracked power plants. Moreover, as the honourable Member has said, our neighbours are not mistaken. Whether in the Netherlands, Germany or Luxembourg, they are mobilizing, asking you for accounts and demanding the immediate closure of dangerous power plants. At the end of December, as stated in a Belga dispatch, together with your colleague Marghem, you were still hoping to be able to take refuge behind the fact that you had not received an official request from the Rhineland for the meeting, keeping in mind that you had already postponed your official appointment with the Luxembourg delegation to be received to explain its request for the immediate and definitive closure of the cracked plants. Mr Minister, this once again undermines Belgium's reputation in terms of security. This reputation is at the lowest and you are well placed to know it. I would like you to take advantage of your reply to give us an accurate account of the contacts requested, undertaken or envisaged with neighbouring countries or at least some of their regions, such as North Rhine-Westphalia, which the government is calling for the European Union to keep a close eye on Belgian nuclear power plants. Even though it recalled the direct responsibility of each of the States in this area, the Commission has not failed to mention the fact that it is possible that in the course of the year the European executive will require, from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, a new assessment of the nuclear situation in Belgium. We can only support this project and ask you to proceed with the inspection of Doel 1 and 2 plants by the International Atomic Energy Agency before the 10-year extension is effective. Why is it that the Belgian government accepted in Tihange cannot be accepted in Doel, except because the government wants to give Electrabel a new gift and its financial profitability, in disregard of the minimum guarantees that must be offered to the citizen in terms of nuclear safety? Is it worth recalling that in Tihange, this inspection had resulted in a series of specific recommendations that had to be implemented before the new ten-year period? At Doel, we'll start again first, and we'll check in two years if it wasn't dangerous. As Minister of the Interior in charge of security, I hope that both supply problems, which no longer exist, as attested by the reports of the CREG and of Elia, and the question of the financial profitability of Electrabel, will be detached, and I solemnly urge you, in view of the increase in incidents and the legitimate concerns of the neighbouring countries, not to give a definitive green light to this extension before this inspection of international experts has been able to deliver its conclusions and reassure us completely of the absence of any danger to both the population and the workers concerned. I must remind you, in inviting you to suspend the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, that these old power plants, since they were destined for definitive shutdown in 2015, had, unlike all others, been exempted from post-Fukushima security upgrades. Refunctioning them before the complete completion of this work is a heavy responsibility that you would take unnecessarily and dangerously on your shoulders. This dimension only strengthens the weight of our solemn call: suspend immediately the extension operations of old or cracked Belgian nuclear power plants. Mr President, I still have a question in this series. I come to my question on safety measures at power stations. This question has already been raised in La Meuse on 24 November. The mayor of Huy complained that it had been a week since he called for the presence of the army in front of the nuclear power plant, but that this request had remained a dead letter. The governor of the province of Liège was going to insist on you and have direct contact with you on 24 November. Can you confirm that this request was successful, but that at least until November 23, when I tabled the question, you did not respond positively? What is your policy in this area? Are there any military and/or police personnel in Doel's power stations? If so, how long? What is the security level defined last Sunday for Tihange 3 or 4 power plants? When I say last Sunday, of course, it is in relation to the date on which my question was tabled. What is the safety level defined last Sunday for Doel power plants? Was that level 3 or 4? I'm talking about a time when we were at level 4 in Brussels and level 3 in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u29	Mr Thiébaut, the answer to your question is included in the answer to the inquiry. As far as Doel 4's sabotage is concerned, as I said last week, I cannot speak about the content of the investigation. But you also asked me for my appreciation. Rather, it is an assessment of the work of justice and investigations. I can understand the critics who say it takes a lot of time to get a result in an investigation on such an important subject. Above all, it is necessary to be able to learn something to prevent similar events from happening again in the future. I understand this very well and I hope that, on the justice side, one will come quickly with a result from which one can learn the lessons to avoid such things happening again. The legal basis for access to nuclear sites can be found in the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and clearances, certificates and safety notices and in the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on safety certificates for the nuclear sector and regulating access to safe areas for nuclear materials or nuclear documents in particular circumstances. The general rule is that any person wishing to have access to a nuclear site must have a security clearance issued by the National Security Authority. For workers with an authorisation from another country, this may be recognised by the Belgian authorities under certain conditions. Due to the size of the NSA security investigation, the security clearance process may take several months. Therefore, a solution has been found to take into account the economic realities of the nuclear sector. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency may issue a security certificate for persons registered in the Belgian national register or an access permit for persons registered in the national register of a foreign country. As part of this process, the AFCN conducts a security check based on national databases such as the police, justice and intelligence services. AFCN may deny access to persons when it considers that there is a risk to the nuclear sector. This decision may be based on several elements, such as the function that the person will perform within a nuclear site, the areas of that site to which he or she will have access, and the information of the competent services. This information enables AFCN to have objective data before making its decision. Any refusal by the AFCN may be appealed to an independent review body, i.e. the review body for clearances, certificates and security notices. The above-mentioned rules apply to the entire nuclear sector, and therefore also to subcontractors working in the two nuclear power plants. Each year, AFCN issues approximately 4,000 security clearances or access authorizations for the entire nuclear sector. In 2014, 38 people were denied access. In 2015, 68 people were denied access. Let me turn to your question about dioxin. It is not the AFCN that investigates this issue, because it has nothing to do with nuclear and the AFCN is not competent. In reply to Mr Thiébaut's questions, I would say that most of the elements you are referring to were discussed in detail in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety on 6 January. So I will not go back to these points. However, I can add that talks have been held between AFCN and its German counterpart in the meantime. Both sides committed themselves to intensifying bilateral cooperation on nuclear safety; Belgium also proposed that Germany organise a cross-inspection, as we are already doing with France and the Netherlands. The German regulator's first reaction to this was positive. So I sent an invitation to my German counterpart. The supervisory body responded positively to this idea, but I did not receive an official reply from the German Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u31	No, it happened between the two oversight bodies. I can only applaud this cooperation and exchange of information between the security authorities, knowing that the host country continues to bear the ultimate responsibility. As a government, we must let the experts do their job so that they can judge nuclear safety independently on technical arguments. We can never be tempted to put pressure on these bodies or to exert political influence on the decisions they take. You know that's my guideline. With regard to the question of the mayor of Huy for military support, I answered last week. We said that the protection of certain places by military personnel required level 3 of the threat. The level 3 currently defined by the OCAM concerns major events and concentrations of people. There is no specific threat to nuclear power plants in Doel or Tihange. It is for this reason that we do not foresee any military support. Next week, I will present our proposal on the main tasks of the police. We will address the new Directorate of Protection. Something is planned for the Tihange and Doel nuclear power plants. I'll explain this to you next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u32	Mr Minister, Mr President, this is rare in my head, but I really wish that next time we could distinguish the issues. I saw you had to look as much as I did. I don't think it's ideal for the debate. Next time, I'd like it to be organized differently. However, I will try to reply point by point, in a relatively short way. First of all, I have to tell you that with regard to Doel 4's sabotage, I understand the reserve you must have. But I also appreciate that you were able to give your feeling, which I share. Without pointing out any responsibility, I find it really intriguing that a year and a half later, we still don't know what's going on. I won't be any longer on this part. As far as the problem of dioxin is concerned, I shall turn to your colleague, because it is a pollution problem rather than a safety problem. It can be regarded as such. For the gauge measures, I thank you for the elements you have transmitted to me, including the encrypted elements. With regard to the inquiry and the approach with neighbouring countries, particularly Germany, I wanted to discuss one point with you, Minister. Germany submitted 15 or 18 specific questions. Could you be assured that the answers will be public and that we will have access to them? That seems useful to me, but you did not answer that question. Germany asked questions. Will the answers be as public as the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u33	Mr Nollet, I do not know the questions, but it is between the two departments. It seems to me normal, given the number of questions at the level of the population, to have to give...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u34	Usually, that's what they do!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u35	These questions may be too technical to allow communication, but with the Dutch minister and the German minister, I hope, after this visit and this mutual inspection, that I can make a shared communication by mentioning what we have seen. That's the point. If we fail to do so, we will consider how to proceed. This is the way to work with these mutual inspections to ensure that the same standards are applied in the different neighbouring countries to assess risk or danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u36	I'm not going to replicate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u37	In order to save time, would it be possible to receive immediately the document of the answer prepared by your firm to my question No 8262 transformed into a written question? When you passed by, you told me that you would pass on the copy of the communication to all Tihange staff, but I didn't get it. This was Question No 8 of December 2015. Could you please send me this document, possibly in the same e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u38	Question No 8262 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u39	Mr Calvo also turns his questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u40	Minister, an annual report is being prepared which gives an overview of the AIG's control of the implementation of the forced return of displaced refugees. I read that report last year and this year. The last report was sent to me in the course of September and concerned the 2014 data. I have made a number of points in this regard. In both the 2013 and 2014 Annual Report, the AIG points to the dangers of AIG stopping its supervision of forced return due to a lack of resources with the AIG, in particular through the non-extension of European funds from the AMIF project, which stands for Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. This problem was already addressed in the 2013 report. As it was reworded in the 2014 report as a recommendation on the last page, do I wonder if that problem has been resolved in the meantime? That is possible, because the annual report obviously provides a view of 2014, while it is already January 2016. I hope that in the meantime the problem has been resolved, Minister, and that a different way of financing has been found so that controls can continue? Can you confirm that? What other solution have you found to the problem, particularly to meet the recommendation? In the 2013 report you get a lot of information about the incidents from page 10. Therefore, quantified data are available, but they are not included in the 2014 report. That seems very bizarre to me. Normally, an annual report is drawn up according to the same pattern, so that the policy itself, as well as Parliament, can make some comparisons and draw conclusions. If one comes up with another report every time, one with numbers and the other without numbers, then it is very difficult to draw conclusions or make a comparison. That is why I would like to ask if you can give me the figures that are missing from the 2014 annual report. For example, the 2013 report also included figures on the number of forced removals and also mentioned the number and type of coercive measures used and the number and type of incidents that took place. These are important conclusions because it is possible to determine whether we are on the right track and improving or whether we need to step up someplace. I hope you can provide me with that information as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u41	Mrs Lanjri, I can tell you that the problem has been resolved. The General Inspectorate obtained an allowance for European grants, which covers part of the costs involved in the implementation of the AMIF project, i.e. the control of forced return. The project will run from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2018. By obtaining this allowance, one member could be seconded from the federal police which is used full-time for the permanent control. The permanent members of the General Inspection had to provide a capacity commitment to rely on the AMIF grant. The total cost, including the salary of one seconded member, the tickets for scheduled flights, the hotel, the inconvenients, etc., can be paid by the grant from the AMIF project. There are no other ways of financing the contract. The General Inspection does not have the necessary financial resources to carry out the checks on forced return. No allowance for AMIF would result in the General Inspection only carrying out a check boarding and that the Royal Decree of 19 June 2012 cannot be complied with. The information you request will be given to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u42	First of all, Minister, it is good that the problem of funding has been partly solved. I'm glad to hear you say that one member of staff has already been posted. If I am not mistaken, the previous report said that there were two staff seconded. I therefore hope that one member of staff will be sufficient. I am already glad that a first step has been taken with one member of staff. As far as my second question on the figures is concerned, I assume that what you have now given me contains the additional figures and the specifications? Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u43	Question nr. 8153 of Mrs Barbara Pas is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u44	Mr.President, Minister, the media reported reports that crime had dropped sharply in November 2015. In concrete terms, the six Brussels police zones have, without exception, seen a significant decrease in the number of criminal acts. The Marlow zone (Uccle, Watermael-Boitsfort, Auderghem) even advances the figure of an overall reduction of 30% of infringements. Other police areas in the country, such as Liège and Charleroi, make the same observation as in Brussels. This significant decrease could be reflected in the level 4 alert and, therefore, the large presence of police and military personnel on the street. It would seem logical that under these conditions offenders refrain from committing their misdemeanours. Moreover, even if the decline is proven, the figures are not yet definitive and should therefore be assessed with some caution. Nevertheless, you will agree with me, this decrease in delinquency deserves to be highlighted. It is reassuring to see that the level of security in the country is increasing. Minister, in addition to the increased police presence, are you aware of any specific factors that could explain this situation of decline, while we are in holiday season, a context conducive to crime? Do you have accurate crime figures by type of crime for the months of November and December 2015? If so, can you detail them? Even if such a police presence on the streets cannot, of course, be maintained forever, what lessons do you learn from recent events in terms of the country's security arrangements? On the basis of recent experience, are reforms or new mechanisms to combat crime envisaged with a view to further improving security? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u45	Compared to 2013, the crime figures recorded in 2014 showed an overall decrease of 2.6 per cent. This downward trend tends to continue, as shown in the figures for the first half of 2015, i.e. -11% on average compared to the first half of 2014. I would also like to inform you that these figures will soon be published on the Federal Police website. Although caution should be exercised, we note that this decrease is observed in all regions: -11.9% for the Brussels-Capital Region, -11.2% for the Flemish Region and -10.3% for the Walloon Region. Of course, these percentages will be relativized on the basis of the annual figures, but we can already welcome these first results, while taking into account that not all the many security problems are experiencing a similar trend, for example, the production and import-export of synthetic drugs, home invasions, fraud on the Internet or the facts related to terrorist acts, which increase by 72 %. As for the figures on which your question relates, those for the last quarter of 2015, they are not currently available. The data for the year 2015 complete and starting in the fourth quarter will, as each year, be available in June. These data will be presented by type of infringement with a brief analysis of the essential facts. It is obvious that various factors influence crime statistics: political choices, police work itself, and even other factors, including external factors – the presence of cameras or others. I remain convinced that a police presence, with reinforcements by the military, more important on the streets in 2015 had its impact on the decrease observed, which is already reflected in the first half of 2015. The decline in crime is probably part of what the criminological literature calls the internal crime drop, i.e. a rather unexpected downward trend in crime observed for several years in Western countries. But further analysis is needed to explain and contextualize these crime figures. With regard to the devices, we are currently laying the final milestones for the internal comprehensive security framework note, in which all actors in the security chain participate. In an integrated and coherent approach to the various levels of power involved, it will present the strength of our security policy and our priorities and will be a policy tool as it will be a key source for the development and direction of police action plans. This document will take into account the events that marked the past year from a security point of view. By the time the crime figures for 2015 and the comprehensive security plan that the Department of Justice and I will be commenting on in the following weeks, I prefer to reserve myself on this matter for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u46	I'm glad you're confirming this trend. We must all welcome this, although for some types of crime, crime is still increasing significantly. Did I understand that the figures you gave me (less 11.9% in the Brussels Region, minus 11.2% in the Flemish Region and minus 10.3% in Wallonia) are for 2014? [[Sentiment]] Thank you for these answers, once again complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u47	Mr Flahaux participates in another committee. We will see if he joins us before the meeting is adjourned. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh postponed her question No 8210.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u48	Minister, the government will create a new database that will keep track of all the data sheets of terrorists and extremists. That database is one of the measures adopted by the government in the fight against terrorism. You have asked for an opinion from the Privacy Commission with Mr Koen Geens, a fellow Justice Minister. In that opinion, the Committee denounces the fact that too many services have access to the data and that no distinction is made between the services when determining how far they can go in consulting and processing the database. In addition, there are overlaps with other databases and no responsible person has been identified to verify the reliability of the information. The Committee also finds it very strange that the database should be introduced through police legislation. What measures will you take together with Minister Geens or have you already taken to take into account the comments of the Privacy Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u49	Mr Top, not only together with Minister Geens, but also with Secretary of State Bart Tommelein, who is responsible for privacy, we reviewed the texts. On many points, the Privacy Commission has given a favourable opinion, but it has indeed criticised a number of provisions. We have analysed them thoroughly and adapted the texts. The measures we have taken are therefore that we have amended, completed and made clearer the text. Now the text goes to the Council of State because we believe that sufficient account has been taken of the comments of the Privacy Commission. We await the comments of the Council of State. I must not convince you that the database is an important tool in the fight against terrorism. I hope we do not waste too much time with those remarks. The database is currently ready and is being used. Federal police put all the data in a database and can be consulted by people with security clearance, such as the local police. Following the introduction of the new law, all relevant services authorised by that law will be able to update the data in the database directly, and thus no longer via the federal police. So it is not possible to make this database operational now, but the procedure could be more flexible and simpler after it has passed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u50	You have therefore taken account of the opinions after analysing them. You have made adjustments where necessary. I hope that sufficient adjustments have been made so that, in addition to the positive ones, the negative opinions of the Privacy Commission are covered, on which the implementation can follow. As you yourself say, the rapper, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I will not explain what an ANPR camera network is; you know that better than I do. The cities of Turnhout and Mechelen were the pioneers of this initiative. In the meantime, AWV has concluded a framework contract with Proximus. The wine-growing police zone, of which my municipality is part, was the first in Flemish Brabant to install an operational network through that window contract, now a year ago. The figures are good: -50 % burglaries in our municipalities. Such a network is therefore very useful. The governor helped us fund the IT server. In consultation it was decided that the server would be placed at the CIC in Leuven. The CIC and the SICAD manage the data and perform the first analysis if there is a hit. Recently, other zones such as Sint-Pieters-Leeuw and Kastze also decided to place ANPR cameras on their territory. Now I've learned that a problem has surfaced at CIC and SICAD in Leuven. A lack of staff would prevent the management of additional police area data with an ANPR camera network. Managing means that if there is a hit, the teams on site are informed. Each police zone will detach a person to the CIC. We're already paying for the services. It was initially said that scaling up by more police zones with ANPR camera networks on the server would lead to a more efficient service. In practice, the opposite is now apparent. Can you confirm that the CIC and SICAD services in Leuven are undermanned and cannot analyse the ANPR data of the additional police areas in Flemish Brabant? Do you think the zones should send more people to CIC-SICAD to carry out those tasks? Given that the various ANPR camera networks contribute to the investigation and prevention of crime across the Belgian territory, it would be good if the federal police were to undertake the central coordination and analysis of all data. Could you consider effectively entrusting this future core task to the federal police and strengthening the CIC/SICAD departments throughout Belgium in the future, should this be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u52	Mr Vandenput, as a result of the optimization, the AIKS and the CIC were merged into a new entity, the SICAD. The effectiveness of a SICAD was calculated on a specific service and the related task package. It is true that additional tasks were gradually assigned to the SICAD performance indicators, such as monitoring the results of the ANPR cameras. This added tasks without providing for staff reinforcement. Specifically for the SICAD or CIC in Leuven, I can answer that there is indeed a shortage of the planned effective and that a number of long-term sick people are adding to the deficit. I am aware that an extension of the SICAD's tasks with, for example, the real-time monitoring of the hits of the increasing number of ANPR cameras and the dispatching of shifts for interventions makes it necessary to increase staff. However, the discussion on staff enhancement cannot be separated from the new vision of the functionalities and structures of the SICAD debt instruments. The task of developing this vision was given to the management committee of the federal police some time ago. The result of this is expected in the near future, and we will get it in the near future. In doing so, the SICAD personnel and the relationship between the share of local and federal police officers are currently the subject of discussions between the Federal Police Executive Committee and the Executive Board of the Local Police Permanent Committee. The proposals on the local/federal ratio will also be discussed at the arrondissement level and with local chiefs. Therefore, although I can confirm that I am convinced that the SICAD officers should play a crucial role in the realisation of integrated information-driven police care, I do not wish to prejudge at this time the expected vision document of the federal police and the proposals on the division of the crew. I can tell you that, in the context of the accelerated roll-out of the national ANPR network as one of the eighteen anti-terror measures, there will be a parallel provision for an increase in the staff of the SICAD team. The additional resources needed for this will come from the newly installed ANPR track checks. We therefore believe that by adding staff there will be a better follow-up of route checks, which will make it possible to repay itself. The 18 measures provide for further support for this. Flemish Brabant already has a provincial server, just like Antwerp. We provide a national server to feed the local ANPR camera systems via a national database.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am pleased to hear that progress is being made and that there is a dialogue between Dirco and the standing committee on the one hand, and there is also a parallel circuit to provide more staff in the implementation of security measures on the other. I am waiting a few months for this to become concrete, but I would like to congratulate you on the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u54	Minister, you have already devoted a great deal of time to this committee. You said you wanted to stop at 6:00 p.m. There are still a number of outstanding issues. It's up to you to decide if you still want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u55	How many questions remain in relation to the members present?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u56	Mr. Top has one more question, so does Mr. Calomne. For my part, I still have five.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u57	Mr President, with regard to the question No. Mr De Vriendt's 8279 development has taken place today. Following the meeting of the ten mayors and taking into account the letter I will receive from the governor of West Flanders, it might be useful to raise that question to next week because then I can include the new elements in my answer. I will reply to the questions put by Mr Top and Mr Calomne, out of respect for the Members present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u58	Mr Minister, during the discussion of the bill on various provisions for Home Affairs in October 2015, you asked in reply to my question: "I believe that the fire-fighting reform has made a mistake apart from the areas of aid in the past by not talking about civil protection or urgent medical assistance. When I look at that now, I think there's been a mistake. They should have been taken with them as a whole. After all, these things are connected. That is why we have committed ourselves to taking the lead from Mrs De Block's cabinet, and we are working to put forward a vision of urgent medical assistance in the context of the fire-fighting reform by the end of the year. I have two questions on urgent medical attention. What is the state of play today? Did you and Minister De Block complete that vision? When will you come to explain it to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u59	I have a brief answer to this short question. In the course of the work, I think Willy Demeyer asked if we could organise a joint thematic committee meeting with the Health Committee in order to explain the view on urgent medical aid. Minister De Block took a few important steps last year and a budget of EUR 12 million has been allocated for urgent medical assistance. She has received opinions on this matter from the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance. Our two policy cells have regular discussions and I assume that, in view of the week after the carnival holiday, we can hold a thematic meeting on this subject. We'll be ready to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u60	Minister, thank you for your reply and also thank you for organising a more detailed discussion at one of the next meetings after the crocus holiday. Do I understand correctly that the vision text is ready, or is it almost ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u61	Almost done. The vision text will be ready after the crocus holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u62	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the minister for his courtesy and allow me to ask my question. Minister, in mid-December 2015, the European bodies reached an overall agreement on the data protection package. In this context, rules have been laid down on the use of personal data by the police and intelligence services. According to the European Directive, the processing of data by law enforcement agencies must respect the principles of necessity, proportionality and legality. It is also intended that monitoring of the use of personal data should be carried out by independent national data protection authorities, and effective judicial remedies should also be provided. In this respect, our country has already taken a step ahead of its European partners. While most of the provisions of the directive are to come into force only in 2018, the federal government has taken the lead in ensuring that, as of March 1, 2016, every police area in the country has a security and privacy advisor to monitor compliance with the privacy law by the police services. The aim is to encourage good practices but also to raise awareness among police about the security of computer systems. Minister, I would like to highlight here the excellent work done by the federal government in this area. In a time when the balance between freedom and security is sometimes difficult to find, the executive again shows its ability to anticipate and manage issues in a pragmatic way. However, allow me to ask you about the measure under discussion. So, could you let me know about the recruitment status of these advisors and when they will take up their duties? Is it only a recruitment process outside the police service or is internal mobility also allowed for officers? Could you also give me details of the job profiles? Finally, has a specific budget been adopted for this new measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u63	Dear colleague, until now – the royal decree of the end of 2015 – the police areas have not been questioned as to the arrangements they have made to meet the obligation to appoint advisers provided for in section 44/3 of the Law on the Police Function. So I can't answer your question. As a function with different technical and legal aspects, the local police chiefs may designate one or more persons to carry out all missions. An adviser may be appointed for several police areas. The number of persons assigned to these tasks will depend on the size of the entity concerned and the complexity of the treatment to be carried out. Depending on the importance of the work to be performed, this function may be exercised in combination with others, provided that there is no incompatibility related to the missions. For example, it is incompatible to be responsible for the processing of data and to have to monitor compliance with this processing. It's, I think, pretty clear. Both members of the administrative and logistical cadre and operational staff can perform the function. The required expertise and impact within the police organization argue for staff at level B or A, Senior Inspector or Police Officer. The Security and Data Protection Advisor will take over the duties of the person designated as the contact point of the Privacy Commission. As a result, expertise is already present to some extent within the zones. The counsellor must be a member of the police force. If the Chief of Staff chooses to assign full time to this position, and no staff member is already appointed, he or she will be required to apply the general rules of the Staff Regulations. The search for an external candidate in the area is possible by publishing the mobility advisor profile, both for the operational staff and for the CALOG staff. If no candidate meets the profile, the job may be published for external recruitment. At the federal level, no specific budget has been provided for the appointment of these advisers to the local and federal police. I do not have a state of affairs concerning either the implementation of the directive at the level of the police areas or their possible decision on the increase of local budgets. There will be good provision for supervision. The establishment of the data security and protection platform will enable the sharing of knowledge, procedures and other good practices. Specialized training should also be organized to complement the necessary skills and knowledge. For this surplus, we have not allocated a specific budget to this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic309x.u64	On the understanding that all of this needs to be put in place in the coming months, I will allow myself to return to it when the process begins. I hope then that all the areas will be equipped with this staff.
