ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in May 2015, I asked you about the technical problems faced by pharmacists in using eHealth and MyCareNet platform services. In particular, I asked you what steps you were planning to take to improve their quality. In particular, you told me that a monitoring system and an internal audit function had been developed. My question goes back to October. Good, because we're going to be able to check if things have progressed. On 15 October, the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) shared its fears about the development of the new e-Health action plan that you had presented the previous day. It considers that "the number of projects under this plan is doomed to failure if structural solutions are not urgently developed to minimize the risk of disruption of eHealth and MyCareNet services". The PDB explains that over the past few months, pharmacists have repeatedly faced the more or less prolonged unavailability of MyCareNet – and I have witnessed it myself. It is through this platform that patient insurability data are consulted. In many cases, pharmacists have been forced to charge the prescribed drugs at full cost and to provide the patient with a form to be reimbursed by his or her mutual fund. It's obviously unpleasant for everyone. This situation may constitute an obstacle to access to care for patients most at risk of financial exposure, especially since information on the application of the maximum fee (MAF) in pharmacies is also provided through MyCareNet. In case of interruption of service, therefore, the pharmacist cannot dispense the prescribed medicines free of charge to a patient who has exceeded his or her spending limit. The PDB offers two concrete and realistic avenues to address MyCareNet's deficiencies, while ensuring access to patient insurability data. Minister, have you been aware of the problems of access and availability of platforms for data exchange between health care providers? Their impact on the quality of services is particularly important. How do you explain these technical problems that are not new? Several appeals have been made in this regard. Finally, what do you think of the solutions put forward by the PDB? Have you examined them? What actions have been put in place since October? Where are we today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed been aware of the recent incidents of unavailability that have affected MyCareNet and the result that pharmacists have been put in difficulty as part of their activity. The eHealth platform makes every effort to ensure the continuity of eHealth services as far as possible. To this end, it submitted to its management committee a business continuity plan which limits the number of single points of failure. The plan incorporates a set of plans to ensure, in various crisis scenarios, including in the event of extreme shocks, the maintenance of essential services, where appropriate temporarily and in a degraded manner, and the subsequent planned resumption of activities. In particular, these possible solutions have been submitted to the technical teams of the PDB, which has, in the meantime, expressed a positive opinion. At present, these technical teams are developing procedures to avoid single points of failure as much as possible, as well as a solution for deviating partners to an emergency website in the event of a major breakdown, thus ensuring a secure minimum service delivery during interventions. It is clear that I fully support these avenues, which should allow us to limit as much as possible the impact on business of unavailability of services. These leads will be implemented in consultation with all relevant partners, including the PDB. I would like to point out that these incidents do not affect the eHealth platform's performance and availability commitments. Indeed, the 99.50% percentage has been strictly respected since January 2015. This is monitored on a permanent basis by the Service Management section of the eHealth platform and by MyCareNet. This service continuously monitors the occurrence of potential incidents. In an incident, an internal procedure is initiated to resolve it as quickly as possible and to ensure optimal service delivery. In addition, with regard to Action Point 20 on governance, it should be noted that the implementation and monitoring of the updated e-Health roadmap includes an "Architecture" section. Optimization of architecture and hardware is therefore a permanent focus of the new e-Health strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u3	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to say something about the single points of failure that you are talking about. At times, the situation was so complicated that it was more likened to multiple points of failure. This is obviously unacceptable for the pharmacist's or the patient's point of view to be taken. I agree that maximum performance must be guaranteed. I hear the 99,50 % respected; it will have to be checked whether this corresponds to the reality of the ground. Prompt handling of incidents is also a requirement. The trail of an emergency website accessible in case of a problem is also an excellent track. I will come back to you on these various subjects. I will have a series of contacts with pharmacists, but I think you understand that the measures envisaged are vital for them and for patients alike.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u4	Pharmacists are really the first users of these platforms. It is obvious that it is first with them that the single points of failure are identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u5	It is precisely because they are detected at home that we must react as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u6	Madam President, Madam Minister, a white card published some time ago in La Libre Belgique once again raised the problem of the "supermarkets" of drugs and care products that tend to develop in our country. Christian Elsen, pharmacist director of the Société scientifique des chemists francophones, and Jean Nève, professor of pharmacy at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, believe that these "supermarkets" are "a step backwards for our health care". According to these representatives of the scientific world, the arrival of these big brands, such as the Medi-Market, which claim to offer services that are not found in conventional pharmaceutical pharmacies, at a price defying all competition, seems to put a curtain on years of consultation between pharmacists, insurers and politicians. In a responsible and realistic economic approach, this dialogue has enabled important reforms to be carried out in order to put in place a new efficient model for the distribution of medicines, while respecting the needs of the population. Minister, what is your opinion on the concerns expressed by these representatives of the scientific world in this carte blanche? Since the implementation of these supermarkets of the drug and the care products, have any controls already been carried out there? Has there already been any consultation with the various partners, such as the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association or the Office for Cooperative Pharmacies in Belgium? If not, why? When could it take place? Would it be possible to assess in the short term the impact of opening such supermarkets in terms of the consumption or over-consumption of medicines, but also in terms of self-medication, in order to ensure the protection of patients? Finally, are new initiatives being considered regarding the quality of the territorial network of pharmaceutical pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u7	Mr Senesael, the expression "supermarket of the medicine" in the article you quote is excessive and probably provocative. There is no "supermarket of the medicine" in Belgium. The Medi-Market brand covers two distinct and physically separated activities at the operating sites: pharmacies and parapharmacies. The small and medium-sized parapharmacies have existed for many years but under various signs, such as Kruidvat and iU. Medi-Market has therefore not innovated anything in this field, except by the size of the shops. These parapharmacies must be registered with the AFSCA, which is responsible for their control by the many plant-based foods and nutrients sold there. They can't sell drugs. The two pharmacies in the Medi-Market Group of Gosselies and Rocourt were inspected shortly after they were opened by inspectors of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and no deficiencies were found. Several consultation platforms regularly bring together the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products and the two representative professional associations you mentioned: OPHACO and APB. The fact that the parapharmacies of the Medi-Market brand are not allowed to sell medicines limits the impact on the consumption of medicines or on self-medication. I believe that it is necessary for the pharmacist to maintain a central role in the distribution of drugs. However, it is important that the profession of pharmacist, like other professions associated with health, can evolve to meet the needs of patients. An example of this is the supervision of internet sales. We work actively and work in this direction with my administration and pharmacist associations. A week ago, I attended a multi-hour meeting with them and members of the administration. We are considering developing a future pact with the pharmaceutical industry. We look forward to his reflections in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u8	Minister, thank you for your valuable and reassuring explanations. As a result, the checks carried out did not identify any non-compliance. One may wonder why the pharmacist director of the Société scientifique des chemists francophone and the professor in pharmacy wrote this white card and alerted us, saying that it was a step backwards for our health care. Listening to you, it seems it's not. We will see how this issue will evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u9	We need to continue the controls. Even if they were in order a few months ago, you have to be vigilant. There's a strict difference between a pharmacy and a parapharmaceutical.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u10	Minister, I have already asked you about several testimonies about euthanasia in the press. In particular, I had referred to the situation of a 24-year-old woman who was going to be euthanized this summer. You then told me that only the Federal Monitoring and Evaluation Commission, established by the Act of 28 August 2002 to verify that euthanasia was carried out in accordance with the standards in force, or a judge, has the capacity to rule on the legality of euthanasia. I already had a malaise at that time with the case of this young woman and especially with the fact that there was a mediatization orchestrated by a doctor. I would now like to ask you about euthanasia on an 85-year-old lady, because she was tired of living after her daughter's death three months earlier. I will not ask you whether this practice is in accordance with the euthanasia law. It will be up to the courts to decide, a first in Belgium. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I feel the same uneasiness as in the case of a 24-year-old woman whose euthanasia had been mediated by a doctor. Again in this case - perhaps you've seen this long story featuring this lady's live euthanasia - media coverage is orchestrated. It makes me uncomfortable. What do you think about this? Is there not a beacon to be imposed as Minister of Health on doctors on orchestrated media outlets, as I have just mentioned? Is it ethically acceptable to organize this staging? One can obviously be in favour of euthanasia but conversely, orchestrating a staging such as this one is something else. I would like to have your opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u11	Mrs Fonck, as you said, it is up to the courts to decide whether the manner in which the doctor acted to respond to the 85-year-old lady's request for euthanasia complied with the provisions of the Euthanasia Act. In case of doubt, it is logical for the Evaluation Board to examine the case. In this case, it was the first time that she acknowledged that a file was not in order. Secondly, it falls within the competence and mission of the Order of Physicians to judge the attitude - which I consider to be non-deontological - adopted by this practitioner as part of his participation in the television report to which you refer. Just like you, I feel uncomfortable watching shows where end-of-life patients are exposed. I find this shocking because it is an intimate moment, particularly stressful for the patient's family. Cameras don't belong in these circumstances. It shows a lack of respect for placing a camera there. That's my personal opinion. I hope that the Order of Medicine, which is responsible for the honour and dignity of the profession and for respect for the patient, will also look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u12	Madam Minister, you understood that, of course, I fully share this unease. I have a deep uneasiness about the way this was done. Clearly, this form of scenarization on the killing of a lady, I find it shocking or even unacceptable. So it's a good thing that the College of Physicians is looking at what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u13	Madam President, Minister, in December 2015, the Cancer Registry Foundation, one of the missions of which is to collect data from hospitals and doctors on cancers diagnosed and treated in our country, published its figures for 2013. As a result, 65,487 new cancer diagnoses were recorded in 2013, of which 53 per cent were among men and 47 per cent among women. Equally challenging, the Foundation anticipates that by 2025, an additional 12,000 cancer diagnoses could be listed annually, bringing the current figure to 77,000. These data are very high because they represent a diagnosis of cancer every seven minutes in our country! Although patient screening and care are improving, risk factors are worsening. More and more people are being affected and, as everyone knows, no one is safe. Young and old, men and women, children and adults: we can all be tested for this disease. Minister, you will agree that the extent of the disease and the Foundation's forecasts are relatively worrying. Cancer affects the entire community and I am convinced that in our assembly, everyone knows at least one relative, friend or knowledge of the disease. The federal government has obviously not remained inactive and has assumed its responsibilities in recent years, including through the implementation of the Cancer Plan. In this regard, minister, could you give us an outline of the strategic priorities that will be deployed next year as part of the plan? I am thinking in particular of detecting and combating new types of cancer, but also of accompanying families affected by the suffering of a loved one. What are the budget allocations for this plan? In addition to the curative dimension of cancer, there is also a need to strengthen efforts to inform and raise awareness among citizens. In this regard, what is your assessment of the synergies to be developed with the federated entities in terms of prevention? Are joint innovative programmes planned for the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u14	Mr Calomne, a first objective is to ensure access to medicines for cancer treatment. The future pact for the patient with the pharmaceutical industry that we have presented here includes several measures that will also benefit those affected by cancer. I am thinking, among other things, of the strategy for clinical trials, of competition on the non-patent market, which will be strengthened in order to obtain lower prices for the benefit of the patient and of cooperation with the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to improve access to orphan medicinal products. A second way forward is to prepare our country for the new challenges with regard to diagnostics that are increasingly being posed from molecular and genetic data. In practice, the roadbook next generation sequence in clinical practice must ensure a better diagnosis. PSI, INAMI and SPF Santé publique are working together to establish a quality framework so that the next generation sequencing laboratories can concentrate these activities and develop valid joint panels in collaboration with the field players. The Committee on Somatic Change has just been set up. In addition, a system of quality next generation sequencing will be developed. To do this, an investment of around €7.1 million is needed. This budget is already planned. The next generation sequence can therefore be developed. At the level of INAMI, the reimbursement processes of the Medical Technical Council and the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products will also be synchronized. As you mentioned, psychosocial care for patients and their loved ones is provided by Action 10, Measure 1 of the Cancer Plan, on the funding of nurses, social workers and psychologists in oncological care programs. For example, there is a full-time equivalent oncopsychologist for 250 multidisciplinary oncological consultations. Currently, more than 330 oncopsychologists are already active in hospital oncological programs. You should also know that, following the reform of the State, awareness-raising and prevention are the responsibility of the federated entities. However, discussions will still be held at the level of the Inter-federal Working Group on Prevention in order to modernise the various memoranda of understanding on early detection of cancers. In this respect, it is important to work in consultation with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. Concertation with the federated entities is indeed essential in this respect, especially since the patient does not necessarily choose his place of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u16	Minister, Type 2 diabetes is on the rise and is responsible for more than 4,000 deaths a year in our country. In addition, between 30 and 50 per cent of people with diabetes are unaware of their disease, which can progress without any medical care and lead to serious complications. These figures are alarming. I am aware that information and prevention are the best ways to stop this type of disease. However, screening must also be a priority. Indeed, if diabetes were detected earlier in patients, it could be more manageable and not result in consequences such as cardiovascular complications. Early intervention in pre-diabetes patients may also prevent them from moving to the stage of "real" diabetes. Effective screening and rigorous treatment are two important factors for me, in addition to information and prevention, to move towards a reduction in this disease. Minister, it is clear that this approach requires fairly high financial and human resources, but these would probably be less than those required by the treatment of tomorrow and these collateral damage. What do you think of the current situation of type 2 diabetes? What effective measures could be put in place, including under the Chronic Diseases Plan, to achieve structured screening and rigorous treatment for each patient? Is there any consultation with the relevant ministers of the federated entities in this framework? What obstacles have been encountered in order to improve the situation in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u17	Frédéric, according to INAMI Pharmanet data, 549 people took diabetes treatment in 2014. From 2011 to 2014, this number increased further by 8.5 per cent. For each prescriber, Pharmanet collects data on reimbursed medicines issued by public pharmacies. Currently, there are several support programs: the Diabetes Conventions, the Type 2 Diabetes Care Path and the Diabetes Passport. The Diabetes Conventions apply to patients with type 1 diabetes and to patients in an advanced stage of type 2 diabetes treated with two or more insulin injections. Patients are monitored in a second line diabetes convention centre by a multidisciplinary team. They receive diabetes education, dietetics, self-management equipment and podology. The diabetes 2 treatment route is for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with one or two insulin injections and those for whom insulin therapy is being considered. Support is mainly on the front line. The patient, general practitioner and specialist physician work closely with other front-line professionals. Patients who have access to a diabetes education program also receive self-management equipment, dietetics and podology. Diabetes conventions are being evaluated on an ongoing basis and care routes were evaluated in 2013. All these programmes have shown an improvement in the quality of care. The Diabetes passport provides access to reimbursement of dietetics and podology. Another initiative is currently under consideration: a diabetes pre-traject. In the framework of the medico-mutualist agreement, we will also invest in this diabetes pre-trajection and this program will allow for the earlier management of patients with type 2 diabetes from diagnosis to the path of care or convention, and a reduction of diabetes-related complications. The joint plan for chronic diseases and integrated care for better health aims at a generic and cross-cutting approach for patients with chronic conditions. The pilot projects mentioned in the first line of action of this plan will also be launched in a few months, in spring 2016. They aim to test integrated care arrangements for chronic patients in a region based on a triple-A approach. The goal is to develop integrated care, that is, to provide a continuum from health promotion to palliative care. It is a long journey, likely to affect in the long term all chronic diseases and not only those with a specific pathology. It is clear, however, that the early management of people at risk for diabetes 2 or who have already been detected may find in this project a favourable framework for the development of more efficient modalities. In order to make investments in this area, we have the medical-mutualist agreement, which is essential. As soon as a diagnosis can be made, the disease should be treated as early as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u18	I thank the minister for her response. I think the answer is reassuring because the minister agrees with me that there is an increase in the number of cases despite all the arrangements put in place. That's proof that it's not enough. We will therefore pay close attention to this diabetes pre-trajection and to the investments that will be made in this area in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u19	Joined Questions No 7731 by Mr Alain Mathot and No 7851 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, the announcement in the press of the murder of a doctor by a patient during a home visit on December 1, 2015, has moved public opinion. This tragic event again raises the issue of the safety of the medical profession. This is in fact subject to the risk of violence both in consultation offices and in visits to patients, due in particular to the sums of money that doctors carry with them, insistent and sometimes aggressive demands for prescriptions for certain regulated products, or to patients suffering from psychiatric diseases. According to a recent survey published by Mediplanet magazine, two thirds of doctors claim to have already been subjected to violence in the course of their activities. If this violence is verbal in 66 per cent of cases, it translates physically in the remainder of cases. This means that one in five doctors has already been abused and beaten. You will agree, these figures are calling! This problem must be taken with arms-to-body and solutions must be found to ensure maximum safety. We agree that there is no miracle remedy, but an addition of concrete measures can make a difference. A lead has recently been mentioned: the use of a specific call button, installed on a smartphone, which the doctor can discreetly activate in order to prevent him from being in danger. This call for assistance from the police services is coupled with a geolocation, which is supposed to save time. According to our information, however, this installation still needs to be tested. Madam Minister, I imagine that the phenomena of violence against doctors are calling on you. What solutions are you considering to improve the safety of physicians? Is the launch of a national safety plan for doctors, defined and implemented with your colleague in charge of security, Mr Jan Jambon, a priority for you? What other measures have you already adopted to better combat this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u21	Madam President, Mr Calomne, the murder of a doctor, a colleague, by a patient on December 1, 2015, moved all the doctors and I in particular. Of course, all physicians and general practitioners in particular are increasingly confronted with situations that may endanger their physical integrity, either within their offices or in the context of child care. The use of a specific call button installed on a smartphone may be a step forward but not the panacea. To be able to make a distress call more easily is, of course, positive. However, a prompt response to this call must be given. Furthermore, it is not realistic to have a guard doctor escorted by a police patrol or to put a police officer in the waiting room of each general medical office. A number of measures are being developed to reduce the risk to the doctors concerned. The establishment of a single number allows for a first sorting in the travel requests of the on-call physician and for the movement of the on-call physician only for requests that are justified. The address and name of the patient to whom he visits are known. The setting up of guard stations allows to limit to a minimum the movements of the general practitioner in the framework of the guard, since alternative solutions are proposed depending on the seriousness of the situation. Similarly, the promotion of group practices reduces the risks within firms compared to a solo practice. In order to further improve the safety of these doctors, I will continue my reflection on further concrete measures. I will certainly come back to you once these have been developed with my colleague, the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Jan Jambon, and the professionals concerned. I would add that this important problem is not just about doctors. Last night, six nurses, as well as one patient, were seriously injured by a psychiatric patient. The problem therefore concerns all primary care providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, the problem is beyond the scope of doctors, which is recalled by the fact that you have just mentioned. Public opinion has been particularly affected. They are professionals who care for people to enable them to live better who are attacked in the course of their activities. I take note of the fact that you are currently working on concrete measures to enhance safety and that, in this context, you intend to consult with health professionals. Minister, do you already have a timeline for this? Do you expect to have been able to consult with health professionals before making proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u23	These events provided an opportunity for them to realize that further action would be needed. I therefore await their suggestions. In addition, I will have to work in consultation with my counterpart in the interior, as far as the police are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u24	Madam Secretary, the Royal Decree of 10 April 1991 creates a framework for psychiatric family care. In this way, patients can be cared for by foster families and can be adequately cared for. OPZ Yellow is a very good example of this. A multidisciplinary team from a care centre or hospital guides the foster families in their care for the patients. The Royal Decree regulates not only family care but also funding for these projects. On a day-to-day basis, care centres or hospitals currently receive an amount of 47 euros per day, a basic amount of 18.95 euros to 21.70 euros being paid to the foster families for their care. That funding is done through the RIZIV. These amounts were fixed in 1991 and are subject to an index. There are some questions about the fact that the level of these allowances is no longer adapted to the needs of psychiatric care. Madam Minister, I would have liked to have asked you to do the following. What was the remuneration that effectively started in 1991? On what basis is this remuneration determined and what are the parameters? What is your view on the level of that remuneration? Do you find it adapted to the evolutions of psychiatric care and current costs? Will you take measures to adjust those fees? Is that possible? If so, what measures and what timing do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u25	Mrs Hufkens, the amounts per day for the host families initially amounted to between 500 and 550 Belgian francs per day, i.e. around EUR 12.50. It is no longer possible to determine on the basis of which criteria were laid down in 1991. Indeed, subject to indexation, the price has not been revised since then. I believe that it is indeed necessary to review not only the price, but the whole concept of family placement in the light of the new range of care that is being created within the healthcare circuits and the networks on the reform of mental health care for adults, which have been rolled out in accordance with Article 107. I do not doubt the added value of this kind of care, but the focus is now primarily on strengthening Article 107 networking. We will have to look at the way in which psychiatric family care will fit in conceptually and financially with the hospitals involved and also very regionally. After all, as you know, psychiatric family care does not exist everywhere. We now have the problem that these 107 networks still have major gaps. It is called grey areas, areas where no aid is provided. More specifically, psychiatric family care hasn't rolled out everywhere. We have to look at that, but that will be very regional. First, we want to address the problem of the 107 networks. In doing so, we will try to roll out cover for the better organisation of mental health care. After that, we will examine locally how and where psychiatric family care can be integrated into it. It is certainly a financial issue, but in the context of the progressive understanding of what is needed in mental health care, we must also take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u26	Madam Minister, I fully agree that a comprehensive package of measures should be drawn up with a view to Article 107. I'm glad you're taking this with you. It may be a small particle throughout the web of psychiatric care, but judging by the example I know from Geel, this works very well. A lot of people take psychiatric patients out of altruism and that's very noble. Some of the financial considerations are involved, and this must not be forgotten when negotiations are conducted locally with families. I have remembered that you will do this, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u27	Madam Minister, young people with mental illness who have committed crimes can be placed by the juvenile court in a closed forensic psychiatric group of a care centre or hospital. At present, the minimum age is in practice to be able to accommodate a child in such a group, 12 years old. There is no such possibility for children under 12 years of age. There is no doubt that this group of young people also needs tailor-made care. One should happen to be only 11 years old and have committed a crime. What is the legal basis for the minimum age of 12 years? What are the possibilities for offenders under 12 years of age with psychological problems? Where can they go? Do you see any possibility of extending the facilities related to the forensic psychiatric wards for children? If so, how will you proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u28	Mrs Hufkens, the condition for the placement by the juvenile court of young people with mental illness who have also committed crimes falls under the special youth aid scheme, which was transferred to the Länder. In the regular mental health circuit for children and young people, it is also intended that every child under the age of 12 needs help in one way or another. For this purpose, a guide was proposed in March last year, which is currently being implemented on the ground, with the network coordinators per province and one coordinator above it, so that there are no differences in the quality of care, and with the outreach teams, which are also available to adolescents. We are therefore also working on an integrated mental health system in this area. All channels are being deployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u29	Madam Minister, the age limit is, of course, difficult, because what does one do with 10-year-olds and 11-year-olds? I am glad that this problem has been included in the guide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, in response to a parliamentary question from a colleague, you said in October 2015 that your administration "cooperated with the Internal FPS and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications, in order to create a legal framework, which will allow the unified call centre to block malicious calls. An agreement was reached between the various partners representing the relief services. There is no planned financial sanction but" – and that's where I'm ticking – "a blocking of numbers after following a procedure of several warnings. The draft royal decree is currently being submitted to the competent minister Alexander De Croo, in charge of Telecommunications." I searched for this royal decree without finding him. Maybe I didn't want to. Minister, what about it? What is the content of this royal decree? When I read your answer, I was surprised because, if I understood correctly, you agreed with Mr. From Croo and the government to block a citizen's phone number because he improperly called 112. Of course, this is not right! Under what conditions? How do you define, in particular, the notion of "malign call"? As much as it is totally unacceptable to saturate this line with malicious calls, so much a real emergency situation that deserves a quick reaction from our rescue services can occur. If this number was blocked, then these people would be without any possibility of a rescue call and therefore without reaction. Madam Minister, I would like to hear from you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u31	Mrs Fonck, I can tell you that my services have been working with the Directorate-General for Civil Security, the Federal Police and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications on a draft ministerial decree pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications. A malicious call is a call that does not necessarily result in a conversation and that intentionally disrupts or renders impossible or even more difficult the usual activities of emergency services by occupying the emergency service's electronic communication line or by interfering with it. The draft ministerial decree provides that unified call centres may set up and use automated mechanisms for handling malicious calls or malicious text messages. It describes its modalities. The project involves the recording of call numbers, a cascade system, which is characterized by several warning messages and finally a blocking of access to emergency number 100 and 112 for a maximum duration of 12 hours. For the exact content of the draft order, please consult Minister De Croo, responsible for the digital agenda and the Post Office. Blocking access to the emergency number occurs only in exceptional cases. There's a cascade of warnings asking them to hang up if it's not necessary. The danger when the number is blocked is to prevent further calls; it is dangerous for other people who need quick access to the lines. Apparently, there are people who enjoy blocking these lines. The demand really comes from the field. But it is important to remain vigilant in order to give maximum access to these emergency lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Does that mean that the order is not yet taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u33	No! He's in the final stages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u34	Okay. It is obviously unacceptable to have malicious calls. It is important to deploy the means to stop them. Good if there's a waterfall. But in this cascade, before blocking the call, it would be worth it, especially since these are fortunately exceptional cases, to send the police there. It is easy to identify a residence and a location through a number. Bannir of 112, even for a fixed period, someone who shouts to the wolf or makes untimely calls, is to take the risk of missing out on a real emergency and being responsible, at the state level. There is a question of responsibility at the state level if a phone number has been blocked voluntarily and as a result, a patient in a critical situation cannot call. I propose that, in this cascade, we send the police to the scene to avoid blocking these numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u35	Like this, one can identify the one who makes the malicious calls. This will already reduce the number of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u36	We will try to discipline ourselves in speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u37	No problem, it makes sense. In any case, it was already the case that the appeal was identifiable. Okay for the waterfall. But in this identification, there's the location. I think we need to send the police to the scene before we can consider any blockage. It seems really dangerous to me. Thank you. The Chair: We're going to try to say it once, and not two or three times the same thing. In the replicas, let's try to be concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u38	So, in the answers, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u39	The point actually applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you many times about alcohol and, in particular, about the evaluation of the Convention on the advertising and marketing of alcohol-containing beverages. A self-regulatory system for the alcohol-containing beverage advertising sector has been put in place by industry representatives (producers, horeca, advertisers) and consumer representatives. A first convention was signed in 2005 and a new one in 2013. At the time, you said: "The FPS Public Health is currently finalizing the Convention's evaluation report on the advertising and marketing of alcohol-containing beverages. It is in the process of validation and approval. It will be transmitted to me by the end of October." It is true that I have tabled the question for some time. You concluded by saying: "I will therefore position myself on these questions after having read the conclusions of my administration". Minister, it's January 2016. Was the report prepared by the FPS Public Health? I guess so. Have you read this report? What are the conclusions of the FPS Public Health? Do you intend to take concrete measures to combat the harmful use of alcohol, and especially on the advertising side? When we see the recent case of the Jupiler campaign, the least we can say is that the parameters of the Convention seem insufficient. I have also tabled a text on this subject in order to legislate. This content should be put in the law rather than kept in a mere convention. Indeed, it is clear that, both in terms of interpretation and respect for beacons, this Convention raises a wide range of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u41	Madam President, Minister, I asked you about a previous advertising campaign conducted by the brewing group. It was on the occasion of the 24 hours bike organized in Louvain-la-Neuve. This brewing group organized a new campaign for young people at the end of the year. It offered them a greeting card and a pack of six free beers as a gift, accompanied by the slogan "Our first good resolution for the new year: offer more tours". This practice seems scandalous to me! In the area of alcohol advertising, self-regulation has largely shown its limitations. This new drift is yet another striking example. In my previous question in April 2014, you replied that your administration had lodged a complaint with the Advertising Ethics Board and that the latter had found that AB lnBev's campaign was not an offence. You also stated: "The Convention contains several provisions on advertising for minors. I will discuss with my administration whether these measures are sufficiently strict or whether it would be preferable to develop them. Nevertheless, I am convinced that effective self-regulation can take place in this sector. If it appears to be insufficient, new regulatory initiatives may be considered. Harmful alcohol consumption has a substantial negative impact on our health, our economy, road safety, etc. This problem has too often been underestimated, but it deserves due attention – a fortiori when minors are involved." Minister, do you intend to respond to the advertisement I mentioned? Is it not a direct violation of the Convention, which explicitly prohibits targeting young people? Do you think that self-regulation is sufficiently effective? If not, what regulatory initiatives do you intend to take, as you indicated earlier? Are you considering evaluating and possibly revising this Convention? Such an assessment in a very short period of time seems indispensable to me. On the one hand, the lack of public health representatives among the signatories to the Convention is worrying as there are many health issues related to alcohol. On the other hand, the publicity referred to here illustrates the fact that this Convention and self-regulation are not sufficient. It is therefore more than time to act. Do you intend to take legislative action on alcohol advertising? Finally, more generally, we believe that the fight against excessive alcohol consumption must be based on a comprehensive national plan which would involve different levels of power and include various measures, such as awareness-raising, combating alcohol driving, measures relating to the availability of alcohol, advertising, labelling of alcoholic beverages and improving the quality of care for people with alcohol-related problems. It would appear that such a plan is being discussed at the Interdepartmental Conference. Is that correct? Could you provide us with further information on these discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u42	Colleagues, other issues are on the agenda on the Alcohol Plan. But whether or not to include the questions on certain topics is the responsibility of the minister in the drafting of her answers. The firm attached these two questions and not the others, which will be asked later. Of course, it would be appropriate to cluster the issues by theme. The problem is that they do not follow in chronological order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u43	Dear colleagues, the Public Health FPS has sent me its Convention Assessment Report on the Advertising and Marketing of Alcohol-Containing Beverages. In Belgium, the self-regulation convention regulates the advertising of alcoholic beverages. This is monitored by the Advertising Ethics Board, which is a private structure. I can't explain myself about individual cases. The Advertising Ethics Board has been seized by my administration and the proceedings are under way. With respect to the analysis by the SPF, the following elements were detected as a result of this analysis. First, the complaints filed by the Public Health FPS are, in most cases, not followed by the Advertising Ethics Board. There are very few complaints from consumers, despite a rapid system. Apart from this system of self-regulation, other rules restricting advertising derive from regional legislation. In fact, the federated entities also have an important competence in this field through the audiovisual media. The Walloon and Flemish Communities each have a decree imposing restrictions on advertising. A specific working group of the General Drug Policy Unit is currently working on a comprehensive and coherent policy on alcohol-related issues. The issue of advertising will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u44	Minister, with respect to this FPS Public Health report, it would be interesting if it were available. Is it possible to learn about it? Can you ask your administration to put it on the FPS Public Health website or send it to the members of the Commission? You point out that, according to the evaluation report, there are very few complaints from consumers. I'm not surprised. But it's a public health issue. It is almost at the level of the Ministers of Public Health that we must be able to identify the faults, which clearly exist. The advertising rules contained in this Convention are not fully respected. Two things. One, I plead that we go one step further and legislate in a very clear way on advertising. Two, you're right, it's obviously in intersection with federated entities. But I think we need to take a new step. In the Interministerial Conference, I remember because I was there, we put in place the first Alcohol Plan, all levels of power combined. It would now be good to take another step forward in the fight against alcoholism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you. Nine months have passed since I asked you about a specific campaign. I can only regret that you're bringing me the same kind of answer now that nine months ago, namely: we don't know how to do anything, that's how, the Advertising Ethics Jury exists, etc. On the other hand, you said that the working group for the Alcohol Plan was set up. I hope that it will be effective and that it will not reach the level of its recommendations like the last, since I think I remember that the proposed measures have not received the approval of all the partners. That was a few months ago, maybe even a few years ago. I really find it regrettable that there does not seem to be a stronger will to legislate on these matters and to move a little further at the same time. Nine months have passed and you have given me exactly the same type of response, almost a defeatist response, saying that nothing can be done against this type of advertising campaign. I find this infinitely regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u46	Mrs Matz, I do have confidence in the capacity of those who want to engage in the working groups to continue fighting alcoholism. I'm very sorry you're laughing at that. You're questioning their competence and saying it's taking too long. It is true that it can always go faster, but they do work seriously. It was necessary for them to have access to this report from the administration in order to be able to work on it further. I will ask them with your greetings, haste and urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u47	I was just talking about advertising. We didn't make any progress. I know that the working group is set up to arrive at the Alcohol Plan, but in terms of publicity things have not changed. In the meantime, the campaigns continue to follow each other, and each time it is the impotence with regard to them and the fact that they are devastating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u48	We will return to the other dimensions of the subject through the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u49	Madam Secretary, these questions always come from the two usual suspects. This concerns hospitals under Article 107. You know the story. I'm not gonna do it all over again. You will understand that for many small regions the present relocation may be a problem, as there is a shortage of psychiatric berths which can be frozen. We can now talk about unequal distribution and corresponding unequal financing of smaller regions such as Antwerp and East Flanders. Many networks are therefore concerned about the withdrawal of start-up funding, which makes funding more difficult and makes it difficult to start projects to fill the blind spots. In your reply to my previous question on this subject, you spoke about a transitional phase for the existing projects and planning in consultation with the Länder and various federations of mental health care. Madam Minister, how will you deal with the problem of unequal distribution in the regions where there are too few psychiatric beds available to freeze extra beds? Is there any planning for that yet? What tools and tools can you provide the networks to promote relocation? The next question concerns the extension of Article 107 to 65+. Today we just have article 107 for persons between 16 and 65 years old. Afterwards, the focus was extended and also the attention was given to 16-year-olds. It is an open door: the population is ageing more and more and psychiatric disorders are more and more common in older people. Currently, there is no focus on 65-plussers to offer those people the opportunity to take care in a non-residential environment. Is there any reason why projects under Article 107 have not yet been rolled out for 65-plussers? What initiatives can and will you take to promote the development of these networks? What's the timeline for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u50	Madam Minister, I will be brief because Mr Hufkens has already said a few things. In the context of the planning of Article 107, we have had a few exchanges of views. In the coalition agreement, we have written together that we want to continue to work, particularly under Article 107, on structural anchoring and also on territorial coverage. You are always talking about deepening and broadening, which is also logical, because we see today that a lot of the five functions in different regions have not yet been filled. You have also spoken about an evaluation, which we have also asked for. We were able to discuss this in October. There are also new plans on the table about the deployment of mobile teams. Mr Hufkens has already referred to the eight full-time equivalents per 100 000 inhabitants. This includes the elimination of part of the start-up costs. Madam Minister, on the budget, you have said that you want to develop these ideas further and that you also want to discuss them with the sector. That's why I would have liked to know where we stand today. Does this consultation mean that there are still some projects starting? We were going to divide that into two halves at the time. Does this mean that the first batch will be discussed this year? Have you already consulted the sector and the regions? I would have liked you to have given me an update on this matter. In the order of business, my question No. 8356 paired, although I don't know why, because last week it wasn't merged with that and now suddenly it is. This is rather a technical question about the moratorium on A-bedden in the Royal Decree of 23 November 2015. The Royal Decree of 23 November 2015 provides that the number of A-beds in general hospitals may not be increased per hospital service. For several hospitals, that decision came unexpectedly. Some hospitals already had a planning permit for additional A-beds, but were not yet in the operationalisation phase. The moratorium would apply not only to the great A-beds but also to the small A-beds. Madam Secretary, what is the reason for imposing a moratorium on large and small A-beds in general hospitals? Is that a temporary or a definitive moratorium? Have you consulted the Communities on this? What measures do you provide for for the hospitals that already had a planning permit? Are there going to be transitional measures or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u51	Mrs Muylle, these questions were grouped because they are related. It is true that there is a historically growing uneven distribution of mental health services in our country. In my previous reply, I mentioned the blind spots and the grey areas in them. As a result, some networks indeed have more difficulty in doing changes in psychiatric residential capacities than others. I do not agree with your statement on the deafening nature of the start-up devices. The start-up tools were intended to launch the networks during the first five years. If you want to start up new networks to close those blind spots, you need to be able to give start-ups back. It is not intended that start-ups continue to last ad vitam aeternam. A birth grant is only given once. We cannot reinvest that money in new projects if others continue to use those start-up funds to subsidise their operation. That's the problem. The Inter-Kabinette Task Force GGZ is currently examining the overall vision and future of mental health reform for adults and is also developing a new framework for the expansion and deepening of Article 107 networks. Since the reform of mental health is a joint project with the Regions and Communities, it was agreed to communicate with the sector and umbrella organisations on 25 January. The aim is therefore to continue to involve umbrella organisations and the sector in the further development of the guidelines for the deepening and broadening of the Article 107 networks. In this context, the IKW GGZ was entrusted by the Interministerial Conference on Public Health to consider the creation and role of the new consultative bodies. The umbrella organisations were also asked to make a proposal on the composition of such a consultative body. This will also be discussed at the meeting on 25 January 2016. In response to the questions on the moratorium, such a measure is usually introduced in order to stop the frequent creation of a certain type of hospital beds as soon as possible. Now it's no different. It was found that many general hospitals are currently submitting applications to convert C- and D-beds to A-beds, so that they are no longer bound by a shelf life limitation and must be of a responsible nature. There is nothing wrong with such changes. However, mental health reforms should not be taken by each hospital individually. They must take place in an atmosphere of consultation at network level. Indeed, it is precisely those networks per province and sometimes also cross-provincial ones that will provide added value in order to strengthen developments within the Article 107 networks. It is therefore not desirable to introduce further measures of change, setting up new psychiatric hospital beds and taking this decision autonomously and without prior regional consultation by hospitals. The introduction of a moratorium would therefore put an end to this. It shall enter into force indefinitely and may be lifted at any time if the need for restriction no longer exists. So it is just a matter of putting the situation on hold and looking at how we are going to organise ourselves. We cannot organize anything, however, when at the same time criss-cross beds are being rebuilt everywhere. The Community authorities were informed about the introduction of the moratorium, which has nothing to do with a standard of recognition but with a programming technique aimed at regularising the supply of healthcare. I should also like to point out that the Royal Decree was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The Council of State did not make any comments in the jurisdiction of the Federal Minister. The introduction of a moratorium is a measure that responds to an existing, undesirable reality and requires swift and firm action. Transitional provisions were not provided for as they would undermine the ratio legis of the measure. At the time, it was chosen to provide, in a first phase, 16-year-old and/or adult projects for young adults. The philosophy of reform and working with networks and care circuits will certainly not exclude any age group. Each policy choice and investment is intended to provide a diverse range of care that meets the needs of all patients. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health first and foremost highlighted the urgent need for a vision for children and young people. This has led to the development and signature of the Guide "Towards a new mental health policy for children and young people." Every year, therefore, I invest an additional budget of EUR 21.4 million to implement this guide and to make this reform work. 2016 will certainly focus on the further development of the various care programmes for children and young people, as well as on the deepening and expansion of the networks under Article 107. As we had agreed, they have a structural character and are not extended from one year to the next. In order to respond to the specific needs specific to the ageing group within our society, including within the group of psychiatric patients, I have asked the Knowledge Centre to carry out a comprehensive needs study on this subject. On the basis of the results of this study, policy proposals can be worked on in consultation with the Regions and the Communities. These should lead to a reform of mental health care, specifically aimed at the target population of older people. A part of this group of people is still in his home, but another part in service flats, residential shelters and rest homes. There too, a great deal of consultation is needed with all the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u52	First of all, a question for clarification, because we both did not understand it correctly. Did that communication happen on January 25th, so yesterday? Can we do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u53	I haven't met the advisers yet. The meeting was indeed organized, but I still give them a few hours to write their notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u54	On the other hand, Minister, we have planned to review the status of section 107 reform in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u55	Madam Minister, on enlargement to 65+, I understand the need for a global plan. Much work has already been done on young people. I am pleased that you also recognise that the group of 65-plussers will not decrease, but will only grow, including as regards psychiatric patients. It must therefore be done effectively. I'm definitely looking forward to the research of the knowledge center. Do you know when that investigation will be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u56	It's been included in the schedule, but I can't give you a date right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u57	Then I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u58	Madam Minister, I will come back to the information that has been given to the sector. To my question on the moratorium on the A-beds, your answer was very clear, for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u59	Madam President, Madam Minister, the problems with Dutch-speaking MUG teams from Wallonia and Brussels, who do not find their way in the Flemish part of the country or who do not understand a patient, are well known and have been dragging on for a long time. In December 2015, a call came in to the emergency power station 112 in Bruges for someone with heart problems in a district of Kortrijk. There would be an ambulance immediately from Kortrijk and an emergency doctor from Mouskron. While the ambulance was present very quickly, the victim had to wait a long time for the emergency doctor from Mouskron, even to the extent that the ambulance was allowed to leave alone with the patient to the hospital in Kortrijk, without the emergency doctor having examined the patient. On the way the ambulance met the emergency doctor, but it turned out that neither the doctor nor the nurse had any knowledge of the Dutch language. The local media reported on that incident in detail. According to some sources, a proposal would be made to the federal government which stipulates that in foreign-language MUG services at least one person should know the other language. According to the federal health inspector for West Flanders, it is a mystery why it sometimes takes so long for the MUG teams from Mouskron to be on the scene. He hoped there would be a rapid improvement in communication. Madam Minister, in June 2015, I asked you a question on a similar issue. At that time, you replied that urgent medical care does include more than just the language issue and that you would evaluate it. You had asked the National Council for Emergency Medical Assistance for a clear opinion. Working groups were set up and you expected a consolidated opinion in autumn 2015, on which you would further develop your policy. I have the following questions. Firstly, is it true that the federal government is developing an arrangement whereby in foreign-language MUG services at least one person must know the other national language? Has there been any consultation with MUG services from the border municipalities? Can you give a timing for introducing that measure? Secondly, can you explain the opinion of the National Council for Emergency Medical Assistance, with specific attention to the problems of foreign-speaking MUG teams? What policy measures have already been developed or are still coming? How will you deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u60	Madam President, Minister, my question is almost identical to that of Mr Vermeulen and I will not repeat it again in order to save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u61	That's good!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u62	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, you may have been contacted by the same people as Mr Vermeulen. It is both your honour to raise this matter. Indeed, the problem you raise has already been identified as a working point in the formation of the government and included in the coalition agreement. My policy always focuses on freedom of choice, accessibility and quality for citizens. However, urgent medical assistance is a setting where, on the basis of a risk assessment, priority is given to adequate and rapid assistance with a guaranteed level of quality. As a result, freedom of choice is sometimes also of secondary importance. My administration does not have any figures on the number of complaints. However, it has not been possible to isolate the problem as a separate element in urgent medical care, since it already starts at the emergency call and ends at the reception within a guard station or at an emergency service. If we were to deal with this problem fractionally, it would not really be solved as a whole. The overall approach to non-planable care and the updating of the regulations, financing and programming of urgent medical assistance, which we are currently working on, does include it as a whole. As you know, I have also made available funds to support urgent medical aid, and indeed there are a lot of things that cannot be accepted on the ground. I am therefore working together with the administration and with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vermeulen, with the advice of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, on a well-known plan of action for the entire chain of non-planable care. So the real intention is not just to look at one problem. After all, there is quite a problem with the unplanned care in our country. You rightly mention the problems of West Flanders, but these problems unfortunately exist in all provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u63	Madam Minister, I understand very well that you do not want to deal with the issue in a fractional manner. No one is asking that, but of course it is in the coalition agreement for a reason. It is not the first time that the dossier has been dealt with in Parliament. We can almost make the subject a regular one. The theme is also known in Flemish Brabant. The mayors of Tervuren and Overijse have very recently complained about the same problem. In Flemish Brabant they work together with Brussels, in South West Flanders with Mouskroen. Brussels is officially bilingual, Mouskron is a facilities municipality. The language problem should therefore not, in either case, prevent proper assistance. Unfortunately, it is still the case. I would just like to point out that a colleague of Mrs Muylle's party urged the Committee on the Interior to sit together in a joint meeting of the Committees on the Interior and Public Health on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u64	Go ahead. However, I would like to say that my colleagues are constantly working with Minister Jambon's staff, which was not the case in the past. They're doing the same thing. So there will be no plan for health and a plan for Home Affairs. This will save us a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u65	Madam Secretary, I follow your vision. Perhaps Mr Vermeulen's impact is a little more Community. My impact is mainly to offer good care to the patient. I think that's the case with you, too. It is therefore important for patients to be able to say in their own language what is not going well and that aid workers understand and then intervene. I understand you're working on that. You are quite right to say that there are many problems in the context of urgent medical care. In my view, this is a dossier which we cannot separate from the reform of the emergency services. After all, there is also a great deal wrong there. In this sense, we can only look forward to what the future will bring. We hope to see plans on the table soon to change the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u66	It's been a long time since we've been talking about this collaboration between the Interior and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u67	Madam President, Minister, according to numbers from the Cancer Registry Foundation, 65,487 new cancer diagnoses were registered in 2013. If it was still necessary to demonstrate this, these figures show that the fight against cancer must remain a public health priority. I have had the opportunity to ask you several times about the continued implementation of the National Cancer Plan launched in 2008 and this was also the case in our discussions on your policy note. This plan is truly a pillar of our cancer policy. It is important to remind him. It contains no fewer than 32 concrete measures relating to prevention and screening, care, treatment, patient support and research. These are essential axes to reduce this disease, to continue to improve the lives of those affected and to enable an ever more innovative medicine in this field. As part of this important National Cancer Plan, various calls for projects had been launched and various pilot projects had thus received significant financial support through the INAMI agreements concluded with the Public Health FPS. Today, it is my responsibility that various projects and conventions put in place within the framework of this plan would not be pursued, due to budgetary decisions taken by your Government. This appears to be the case with the financial support so far granted to banks and cell therapy units for hematopoietic stem cells and cord blood. If that proves correct, it would be a real disinvestment on your part in the fight against cancer, which my group could neither understand nor accept. Before I draw any hasty conclusions, I therefore allow myself a few specific questions. Minister, do you confirm that you have terminated some of the agreements that have been established so far under the National Cancer Plan because of budget cuts that you impose on health care? If so, does this non-renewal concern only stem cell and cord blood banks or does it concern other types of conventions? How many conventions under this plan would not be renewed? What types of specific projects do these non-renewed conventions cover? What savings do you intend to achieve as a result of the non-renewal of these conventions? What about the measures that will no longer be financed when the hospital structures that have set them up can no longer pursue them on their own funds? Do you not fear that this disinvestment will clearly run counter to an effective and proactive cancer policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u68	Mr Frédéric, first of all, your information is not correct. As to what the newspapers are reporting, we have also been contacted to provide an answer, but I respect Parliament too much to throw information into the media. When a member of the House asks me a question, I give the answer in the Public Health Committee and not a day earlier in the newspapers. I respect parliamentarians in all circumstances. The answer to your first question is negative. The others are therefore irrelevant. But I'm still going to tell you what we're doing because you seem to be very interested. It is clear that the fight against cancer remains a priority of public health policy. The National Cancer Plan, originally planned for the period 2008-2010, has been continued and expanded with additional measures, already since 2011. The majority of the actions of the National Cancer Plan have been carried out. These are now structural measures. These actions continued and "pilot project" actions for the period 2012-2015 were completed in June 2015. The resources still available will be reinvested in other measures, such as the Next Generation sequence project, whose oncology practice clinic is one of the examples. Following an administrative error, contracts with cord blood banks and stem cell banks were effectively terminated as of 1 January 2016. As soon as we have been notified, the centres have been notified and have received a letter stating that the contracts will be terminated at a later date, when the amendment to the nomenclature has entered into force, and therefore not on 1 January 2016. Continuity was your concern, but it is present. The objective, as explained in my 2015-2016 Political Note, was to achieve funding for these banks that is more consistent with the actual activities of these centres. Today, it is a lump sum funding that does not take into account the level of activity or the performance of each centre. This funding is provided through agreements, within the budget of the hospitals' financial resources. In order to better meet the needs of the field, the conditions of the health benefits classification should be changed so that the actual activity and performance of the centres are taken into account. These changes will be developed in consultation with stakeholders in the field and discussions will begin in the first quarter of 2016. Already in 2007, during the hearings in the Senate, the remark had been made: the political class had to pay attention to the proliferation of human cell and tissue banks. Banks in Belgium are among the smallest in Europe. The ISP Cancer Centre has calculated that there is a stem cell unit for 745 inhabitants in Belgium, against a bank for 919 inhabitants in France, and one in 1.5 million inhabitants in Germany. In order to ensure access to stem cell-based therapies, the French National Cancer Plan from 2014 to 2019 calls for improved bank efficiency. In short, a change in the policy on financing mechanisms is therefore desirable in Belgium and will be necessary in order to achieve more sustainable, sustainable and sustainable banks for the benefit of patient care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you. I cannot help but react to the comments that have been made in advance. The first concerns the fact that journalists are interested. It is still very happy that journalists in this country are looking at the agenda of a committee, looking at a subject and asking preliminary questions. I am sure that, in your long parliamentary career, this has also happened to you. It does not seem to me abnormal that we are working transparently. The minister should not be embarrassed, since she tells me that my information is incorrect. The objectivity to which you must stand, Madam Minister, and which you have expressed very partially, must lead you to admit that, even if the letter dates from November 27 and my inquiry was filed in December, this message was of terrible precision and frightening coldness. It was intended for a hospital institution: "We inform you that the government, as part of the budgetary decisions, has decided to terminate, from 1 January 2016, the Convention on the implementation of the National Cancer Plan". You know how constructive we are in this committee whenever we can. So you can't blame us for our parliamentary oversight role! It is not illogical for a Member of Parliament to worry about discovering the coldness of such a document. I do not know whether my colleagues have received it as well. To make sure you understand yourself and to avoid you telling me later that I'm distorting your remarks, you intend to change the method of financing to make it structural in the long run. The book is about the trade for now. If I have heard you correctly, what I call a letter, and you "an administrative error", will not jeopardize the period from current funding to future funding. Thank you for your answer and remain attentive to the follow-up to this issue. We are unanimous in recognizing the sustainability of the National Cancer Plan as a key concern. That is why I am tabling a motion for a recommendation calling on the government to continue to lead, in line with previous legislatures, an effective and proactive cancer control policy, to allocate as soon as possible the necessary budget to assist in the continuation of the pilot projects under the National Cancer Plan developed in 2008 and to continue its implementation in order to enable its evaluation and updating if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u70	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. André Frédéric and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to continue, in line with previous legislatures, to pursue an effective and proactive policy to combat cancer; - to allocate as soon as possible the necessary budget to allow the continuation of pilot projects carried out under the Cancer Plan; - to continue to implement the cancer plan drawn up in 2008, to enable it to be evaluated and updated if necessary." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - continue to pursue an efficient and vigorous anti-cancer policy, in line with the policies of the previous legislatures; - to allocate as soon as possible the necessary resources for the continuation of pilot projects under the Cancer Plan; - to further implement the Cancer Plan drawn up in 2008 and to allow for its evaluation and, if necessary, its updating. . ' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens, Ms. Nathalie Muylle and Mr. Yoleen Van Camp and Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Renate Hufkens, Nathalie Muylle and Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. I give the floor to Mrs Fonck for her question No 8116 on access to contraceptives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u71	Madam President, this is a question of follow-up and information, so I propose to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u72	I will ask my question No 8134 on psychomotricians instead of my question No 8689, which I will ask after the 'alcohol' questions; thus all the questions relating to alcohol will be grouped together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u73	Madam Minister, I have heard from people from the field that you have already had discussions with them. I am therefore curious to hear your answer. My question is about charging too much for home nurses, so fraud. Of course, that exposes an underlying problem. The financing of health care often leads to unnecessary performance. In the end, it is the patient and society who pay for this overperformance. According to the reports of mid-December, the hospitals simply had to refund the amount due, while a fine was added to home care. That was a strange difference, wasn't it? We both agree with the principle that hospitals should cooperate more in the field of specialized services and better refer to each other. I think there is no problem in that regard. But also for home care, I think that we should take a step in the other direction and that we should work on practical registration and funding in order to increase social control, which will improve transparency. My questions to you are the following. How did you address the problem of this unexecuted but charged performance or how will you address it? How many checks are going on? I have a strong impression that home care is a strictly controlled sector, even more so than other sectors. So maybe this problem should have surfaced sooner after all? Why fines are imposed on home care when this was not the case for hospitals? What do you think about more intensive cooperation between hospitals and better monitoring of practical funding and registration for home nurses to counter this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u74	Madam President, at the outset, I would like to say that I turn my joint questions Nos 8565 and 8566 and my questions Nos 8716 and 8717 into written questions to assist the work of the committee. Minister, my question is in line with Ms. Dedry's, as the INAMI Medical Assessment and Control Service (MSEC) has recently detected a number of cases of fraud in the home nursing and medical imaging sectors. Indeed, more than one in ten imaging services would have charged their services at too high rates or would systematically opt for the most expensive imaging techniques for health insurance. While most of the services concerned have already made a voluntary reimbursement for an amount estimated at EUR 2,848,546, the SECM wishes to increase the responsibility of medical imaging professionals by claiming, for the future, fines in addition to the reimbursement of these sums unduly collected. In addition, SECM also noted that 187 home nurses in 2014 reported an annual turnover of more than €200,000, an amount "materially impossible", according to INAMI. In-depth checks have actually revealed overbilling or invoicing of services not provided by 62 of them, for a total of around EUR 3 million. In view of this, INAMI, in consultation with the sector, calls for a maximum ceiling of refundable benefits per quarter. Minister, do you consider that, in addition to the mandatory reimbursement of amounts unduly collected, new measures are needed to effectively combat fraud in medical imaging services? Do you consider it appropriate to introduce a limit on the maximum number of refundable benefits in the home care sector? Are other measures currently under consideration within your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u75	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, Madame Jadin, the control of the reality and conformity of benefits in kind charged in sickness insurance is carried out by the insurance institutions in general and more specifically by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. Control of non-implemented benefits in kind is and remains a priority for this service and there are regular checks. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service is also evolving towards a more thematic approach which examines a part of the regulation at national level. Based on expertise, studies and screening, a target group to be monitored on the ground is aligned. You can find the results of these checks in the respective annual reports of the service, on the website of the RIZIV, under publications and then activity report of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. In fact, you will find that the nurses' sector has been heavily controlled. This is partly due to the infringements already observed in the sector, although a limited number of carers from the large group of more than 25 000 nurses. It concerns the group with a large share of unachieved performance. There is an important difference in the facts found between nurses and hospitals. Nurses often have unachieved benefits of more than EUR 15 000 per year, sometimes they are very large. In hospitals, on the other hand, the services were carried out but not in accordance with the conditions to be met by the nomenclature charged. The RIZIV conducts a pressing policy, with first informing the caregivers, then control and only in the subsequent phase sanctioning of infringements. In the hospitals everyone has been informed and informed and they have also had to pay back the sums unduly charged. And they did. In the event of a recidivism, a penalty will be imposed. In any case, further checks are already planned there. Measures have also recently been introduced which can have an effect. For example, as from 1 October 2015, in the home care sector, the general obligation for the insured person to be informed of the benefits in kind charged in his name to third-party contributors was foreseen. It is too early to assess that effect. In the formulation of a sanction and control policy, the representatives of the sector and the insurance institutions within the Convention Committee have an important role to play. It is a small group of of offenders who give the whole group a bad image. There have been contacts with the home nursing sector. Practical registration is put forward by the home nursing sector as a mechanism within enforcement policy, with a clearer profile overview, accountability, etc. This needs to be further developed, starting with the definition of what is a practice. The introduction of a maximum of refundable benefits per month, quarter or year for the sector appears to be a relevant complementary measure specifically targeted at a limited target group where offences are highly likely. This system has already shown its value in physiotherapists. At the time, Frank Vandenbroucke had capped the number of benefits saying "that a physiotherapist has only 24 hours a day to perform his work". Indeed, if we find that people have more than EUR 200 000 per year in home care benefits, it can only be said that they have more than 24 hours in one day. With regard to medical imaging, the Memorandum of Understanding of 24 February 2015 provides for the reduction of CTscan examinations to the benefit of NMR examinations which guarantee better results for the increasing number of indications, without ionizing radiation. The programming of NMR devices has already been extended with a first instalment of twelve devices that are not all operational. This will soon be the case; difficulties are still encountered for only two or three aircraft. Finally, you should be aware that the approach plan for reforming hospital funding focuses, among other things, on hospital collaboration and networking. Heavy medical equipment, given the cost of purchase, operation and related benefits, is in itself an area of excellence for the establishment of these networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u76	Madam Secretary, I have a two-pronged reply. I understand that with those home nurses who have now been fined, it was a matter of recidivism. There is indeed a number of cowboys that need to get out. It is also my concern that the image of the sector should not suffer. Secondly, you say it still needs to be aligned. You're for practice registration, among other things. Now, however, what is a practice still needs to be delineated. I think there's enough dust in the family doctor's office. In the past, I know that through my cooperation in the Cabinets of Ministers Aelvoet and Vandenbroucke, there was already a lot of material available. The sector will be very pleased if this can be achieved quickly. So I don't think there's much work to be done on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u77	Minister, thank you for your clarifications and answers to a practice that you have supported through various examples and that is not widespread. However, it seems to me necessary to be able to clarify the different processes in order to try to remove this kind of rather detestable phenomenon at the best and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u78	Madam President, Minister, it has just been mentioned that the Federal Health Knowledge Centre has put forward an alcohol plan which they consider necessary. About 10% of adults in Belgium have an alcohol problem. Of these, only a small fraction are seeking help, one person in twelve. That only happens on average after 18 years, which is awfully late. The knowledge centre formulates several reasons why people with problematic alcohol consumption do not ask, find or get help. The factors can be found in society, in the care providers, in the organisation of the care and also in the person concerned. The knowledge centre therefore calls for an alcohol plan including information campaigns and stricter control of alcohol sales and advertising. The FPS Public Health also supports the need for that plan. Our group already tabled a resolution in 2015 on measures to combat health damage in the event of excessive, problematic alcohol consumption and alcoholism. A proposal from the MR in this respect has already been discussed in this Committee on Health. Now, Ms Cécile Jodogne, Brussels Secretary of State, states that there should be an agreement on such a plan by the end of October 2016. Madam Secretary, are you working with the various regions on the alcohol plan, as Mrs Jodogne points out? What's the timing? Are the different aspects to which the knowledge centre refers included? Secondly, do you incorporate into the plan the various aspects contained in the various resolutions that are being discussed in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I am largely in agreement with Mrs Jiroflée's questions. I shall therefore refrain from the introduction. I also refer in my question to the KCE and its clear recommendation for stricter control of alcohol sales and advertising. You yourself voted against an alcohol plan in 2013. Now, however, I hear a number of changes. My questions are as follows. What recommendations of the KCE do you accept and which do you not? Are you also considering measures to discourage the sale of alcoholic beverages in night shops? You used to argue for alcohol prevention at school. Are you also working on this aspect with your fellow Members from the Länder? At the time, you also asked for better support for health care professionals involved in the alcohol problem. In other words, you once suggested a number of things yourself. As Mrs Jiroflée said, a large number of proposals have already been made in the Chamber. What exactly will you do? What timing will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u80	Madam President, Madam Minister, I too will be very brief. I am of course also very interested in your answers to the questions about the alcohol plan. I have some specific questions about the checks on the sale of alcohol. Last year you replied to a number of questions on this subject in committee that checks remain difficult because inspectors often stand out during checks. Nevertheless, you said that in 2015 you wanted to increase the number of checks to 5 000, including during peak moments such as after the exams and during the summer months. The figures from the survey show that more checks are really needed so that we can enforce legislation and protect minors from alcohol abuse. In this context, I would have liked to know the following. How many checks were carried out in 2015 on compliance with the legislation on beverage sales to minors? How many infringements were detected? Will you take any further action in 2016 to further increase controls? If so, what and will these actions form part of the new alcohol plan that will be on the table around October?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u81	Madam President, a small word in the preamble concerning the organisation of work. As you have observed, some of the questions I wanted to ask have already been answered by the minister as she responded to the joint questions of Ms.Matz and Ms.Fonck. We would probably have saved a little time by gathering everything together. Since my colleagues have already mentioned certain elements that I wanted to develop, I will stick to my questions. Minister, as announced in your general policy note, the development of an alcohol strategy, in collaboration with federal entities and other relevant ministers, is currently under way. Could you please inform us about the state of play of this strategy, and already outline it, if possible? As such, what is your view of the KCE report and to what extent will your strategy be guided by its recommendations? Can you confirm that this strategy will be launched in October 2016 as announced? Finally, could you inform us about the state of collaboration with the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u82	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Hufkens and Mr Calomne, it is true that the Drugs Thematic Meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health instructed the General Cell Drugs Policy to develop a global and integrated alcohol policy by October 2016. That timing is the same as that which Mrs Jodogne had announced. After all, it is about the same mission. The Inter-Ministerial Conference will discuss the Cell's proposal and hopefully adopt it this year. A working group has been set up with representatives of all the ministers responsible for health, including those in the region. Also represented are the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Work, the Minister for Economic Affairs and not forgetting, given the link between road accidents and alcohol consumption, the Minister for Mobility. After all, it is essential that a balanced policy is developed, with measures in these different areas. I do not want to anticipate the discussions in the working group, but these measures must be supported, they must be practicable and they must be verifiable. The policy should also be based on scientific recommendations, such as the data from the World Health Organisation, the recent Belgian studies and the study of the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care. I would remind you that it is actually the Public Health Office that requested this study from the knowledge centre, precisely in order to be able to use it as scientific support in the discussion on an efficient alcohol policy. After all, that was not always good to make up for. Not all of the KCE's recommendations fall within my purview, but I obviously support a better prevention of harmful alcohol consumption. In my view, there are also opportunities in hospitals and emergency services, which are often faced with people who have been drinking too much alcohol. Therefore, this year I will continue and expand a pilot project with an alcohol liaison function in four hospitals where short detection and response methods will be tested for emergencies. But society's support for these measures is also important. The discussions in this committee are therefore also relevant to the development of this policy. Ms. Hufkens, 4 895 alcohol controls were carried out in 2015. Almost nine percent of the controls found alcohol to be sold to young people. 300 PVs were therefore drawn up. For this year, the control agency has planned some 4 000 alcohol controls, a little less because of the fact that four inspectors have left the control department. As I said to a question from Mrs Dedry, we are really looking for other methods of carrying out the checks. The auditors are very recognizable and do not always have pleasant experiences in the workplace, which can be demotivating in the long term. Four of them have left control. Efforts are being made to replace them, but that is not clear. In the coming weeks, the Public Health Office will send a new brochure to the local authorities asking for even more intensive cooperation with the inspection services. A local administration usually knows where infringements are taking place. This new brochure can be distributed through the municipalities in order to make organisations aware of the application of the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u83	Madam Minister, I welcome the search for even better cooperation with local authorities. There is indeed a part of the knot. We must continue to insist that the inspectors be replaced. I'm sure you will. I note that there will indeed be something on the table in October. I'm very curious about that. In any case, our group will be following this with caution. Madam President, I propose that we discuss the resolutions on the alcohol plan that have already been tabled very quickly in committee. Perhaps this could lead to additional inspiration for the Inter-Ministerial Conference and for the General Cell Drugs Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u84	Madam Minister, I agree with what Mr Jiroflée said. You said you only have 25 inspectors. If four of them are gone, that's a fifth. Moreover, they are very recognizable, so their effectiveness is not high. You did not answer one question. It is also very important that caregivers are better trained and supported, as there is also smoke cessation guidance, with professional guidance by general practitioners among others. That is absolutely necessary, but it is currently less well developed than what has already been achieved in the area of smoke control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u85	Madam Secretary, let me congratulate you! Your target was 5 000 checks and 4 895 is very close. That's very nice. I am also very pleased that you say that you want to strengthen cooperation with the local authorities. That's crucial. I am speaking very locally for a moment, but in Leuven the problem is very acute. Every week a lot of young people are admitted to Gasthuisberg because of binge drinking. The students and the police are very keen on this, but any support from the federal level is welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u86	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I do so that in October 2016, we will have more concrete elements. We will pay attention to it and then we will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u87	I shall therefore ask my question No 8689. Minister, for future commissions, one could imagine a better interaction between the commission secretariat and your cabinet on whether or not to include questions. Sometimes there are rehearsals. At the same time, the chronology of questions must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u88	It is not just the firm, it is also the administration that receives questions and dispatches them. It's hard for my firm, too. The current situation with so many questions is unprecedented. This is a matter of parliamentary law, but my colleagues tell me that they have never experienced this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u89	There have always been a lot of questions in the Health Committee. Of course, I understand the administration that deals with the timing of the arrival of questions. On the other hand, I find that nothing would prevent, Madam Minister, when we have a whole series of questions about alcohol, that we decide together, even in committee, to group the questions together. I have no doubt that you will be able to handle this live if I can say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u90	That's right. I will propose this when we decide on the next order of business. This means, of course, that if someone puts a question on a subject discussed earlier, it can cause a great deal of disruption to the work. There is therefore a need for collective agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u91	Madam Minister, if my question concerns you, it also concerns the Minister of Economy. In fact, students from French-speaking universities (ULB, UCL) – but I suppose the same is true elsewhere – who complete their exams receive publicity from a Luxembourg tour operator, namely Skikot, who offers a week of skiing at competitive prices. Very well, you will tell me, except that this travel organiser stops on the other side of the Luxembourg border to allow travellers to buy alcohol and tobacco in bulk at a heavily reduced price in a hangar lent by the municipality. During the trip, alcohol is regularly praised. On the holiday spot, we admire the effects of caffeine gum that allows alcoholic students to go skiing despite their cooking. In addition, alcohol is offered free of charge in the vacationers' rooms. It is not only a question of students on the goguette during their holidays, but also of a real strategy put in place since fifty buses on a single evening make the journey. Minister, you will understand that this way of doing things can be an issue. For example, the youth and alcohol network calls on our policies to draw our attention to the fact that the problem concerns not only a number of young people but also adults. He also pointed out that every euro invested in prevention brought back to the State 4 euros. This body makes several requests which concern you, as the Minister of Economy, namely the prohibition of these advertisements, of these sales of alcohol at a loss or the free offer of alcoholic beverages, the organization of "happy hours" during which alcohol is offered at particularly attractive prices. It should be noted that the situation is all the more worrying because universities are powerless or cannot act effectively, since private bodies and student circles are involved here. In connection with the Alcohol Plan and the provisions relating to the advertising and sale of alcohol to young people, how can measures be taken within the framework of your competences, in collaboration with federated entities and consumer protection and business practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u92	Mrs Gerkens, I didn't know it existed, but I'm not old enough to take university exams anymore. Alcohol consumption and driving seems to me to be bad. But skiing under the influence of alcohol also seems to me to be a fairly high risk. I will discuss this with the Minister for Employment because it also concerns advertising. This concerns a large number of young people, which is worrying. We will see if we can come up with a common strategy. But since people are inventive, I think it will be necessary to check whether effective measures can be developed. From the point of view of public health, measures will also be necessary. I'll discuss it with Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u93	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This problem has far-reaching consequences. This practice existed a few years ago and then disappeared in connection with the promotion of preventive measures and legislation on the advertising and marketing of alcohol to young people. It would also be interesting to contact your counterpart in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in order to intervene jointly. Indeed, a Luxembourg tour operator comes here to seduce Belgian students and take advantage of the price differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u94	Minister, I asked you about this on July 14, 2015. Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications and laying down the minimum requirements for the training of the nurse responsible for general care, imposed a deadline for transposition into Belgian law of 18 January 2016. This transposition, on which the Federal Council of Nurse Art recommended maximum integration, must be found in Royal Decree No. 78, which was coordinated by Royal Decree of 10 May 2015, published in the Belgian Monitor of 18 June 2015. There was therefore an urgent need and, as a matter of priority, to reserve access to the profession for new graduate nurses, which implies an amendment to Article 45 of AR 78 which determines the conditions for obtaining and maintaining the title of nurse responsible for general care. You are aware, minister, of how much investment in the training of our nurses is essential to reduce mortality, reduce nosocomial infections, and improve the quality of care, both in hospital and extra-hospital settings. The evolution of health needs and the context of care requires high-level competencies for an autonomous and responsible professional nursing exercise, as described in Directive 2013/55/EU. You have a professional profile and competencies as a nurse responsible for general care as determined by the CFAI's opinion of 1 April 2015. In addition, the Communities, both French and Flemish, have taken initiatives to bring their programmes within the respective training institutions into line with the European regulations, with a view to preparing at best the school and academic year 2016-2017. For meeting the sector, I realize how high the expectations are not only in terms of training but also in terms of status and title. The problem is complex because future health needs need to be met with trained nurses at the bachelor's level, but also to take into account the current situation of licensed nurses and caregivers who are doing important work and whose future needs to be sustained. It must be a forward-looking vision. Without going into futile quarrels, I would finally like to say that this issue involves a solution on your part that takes into account the public health interests and issues of the two major linguistic communities in our country, of which I know that they may diverge somewhat in hospital needs but also in nursing homes (MRs) and nursing homes (MRs). Therefore, Madam Minister, can you let me know the current state of the case and, therefore, what about the royal decree which must transpose, in Royal Decree No 78, the elements of the directive? Can you also argue your position of wanting to keep two levels of training for the same professional title as a general care nurse?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, as has just been pointed out, this transposition of the European directive is anything but banal, because there is a key word that must emerge in terms of objectives, namely the quality of nursing care. It is all the more important that a study by The Lancet was published a little more than a year ago and concerned a retrospective study of nine European countries where it was clearly demonstrated that the quality of nursing was a major issue. There was evidence of the link between training and mortality rates. The higher the training with a set of criteria, the lower the patient mortality rate. This is therefore a major issue for patients. You, together with all the ministers concerned, have clearly defined, a few months ago, article by article, which authority was responsible for transposing the European directive. Let us acknowledge this: several ministers are competent and concerned. I would like to recall the position on the proposals made by the General Union of Nurses of Belgium and by professional associations. These actors have planned on the transposition of compliance with this European Directive. They provided for the introduction of a single title for the training of a bachelor's nurse. This is what makes it possible to meet European requirements. The number of hours and skills required have been taken into account, so that the nurse can be certified for general care and that the free movement of the nurse within Europe can be guaranteed. They had also proposed the introduction of a single title as a qualified intermediary meeting the European criteria for a higher vocational training certificate. Work has been done on this subject and a proposal has been put on the table to ensure that there are now nurses with the title of general care nurse corresponding to the bachelor's degree. On the other hand, and the MR proposed the same thing, it was suggested that the training of patented nurses should be terminated, with a phasing to take account of the reality of schools. This would be done by allowing schools, even if it is a competence of the Communities, to train the caregivers of tomorrow. All this must still be correlated with the evolution of the tasks, and in particular with the famous royal decree 78. Where are we, Madam Minister? It is my responsibility that you have decided to keep, in an extremely surprising way, two training courses for nurses. On the other hand, I would like to address the financing of qualifications and the expertise of nurses. Indeed, it would appear that funding related to the qualifications and specializations of nurses is being abolished for 2016, which is causing a great deal of turmoil in the profession. In doing so, we are moving in the opposite direction to the logical evolution of the importance of quality of care to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u96	Minister, the transposition of the European Directive 2013/55/EU, set at 18 January, is a complex task that falls under different levels of power. It is time for nurses, employers and schools to have answers to their questions. What about the transposition of the Directive in the context of AR 78? Reference was made to the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB). His position is far removed from the position you defend. Has there been any consultation with the UGIB in this context? Do you intend to take his remarks into consideration? What about the transitional measures? What about students in training?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u97	Colleagues, the subject you are referring to is indeed the subject of many concerns within the profession. I'm aware of that. That is why, together with my office, the parties concerned were received, for example representatives of the offices of the federated entities responsible for education. As regards the work and drafting of legislation transposing the Directive with a view to the recognition of professional qualifications, these have been the subject of particular attention both by my office and by my administration. To date, the draft Royal Decree transposing the Directive has been approved in the Council of Ministers. We must, as usual, still obtain the opinion of the Council of State on the transposition texts. My intention is to move on to transposition as soon as the adoption procedure is completed. I hope that will be the case very soon. I will strictly observe the obligations contained in this directive, namely to reserve the practice of nursing for new graduates who will meet the minimum hours of theoretical and clinical training as well as the skill requirements laid down in the directive. It provides that countries have the choice to train their nurses at the higher professional or university level. The new demands in terms of hours and skills are already a major challenge for the world of education. This is why the duration of training has increased from three to four years. I will ask the Communities to comply with the criteria of the directive and to ensure that new graduates meet the criteria set by the European Union. Mrs Van Camp has also raised the question of the exercise of existing legal acts. I have no intention of distinguishing between nurses with a Bachelor's degree or nurses after an HBO5 degree. Both courses lead to the title of nurse, provided that they both comply with the European Directive. I understand that the Bachelor's programmes aim to achieve the level 6 of the European Qualifications Framework and the HBO5 training programmes also make the necessary efforts to meet the same European criteria. Efforts must be made in both training courses. The reform dossiers and the possible transit routes fall entirely within the competence of the Länder as they relate to education. However, I confirm that, according to the so-called salmon model, the flow possibilities will continue to exist and that I will continue to encourage this. Then, after the transposition of this European directive into Belgian law, I will enter into consultations with all the parties concerned on the vision that I intend to develop for this profession in the context of the reform of the law on the health professions, said Royal Decree No. 78, now the law of 2014. It is at this time that other topics will be discussed, such as skills and professional credentials, the quality of clinical internships, the attractiveness of the profession, ethics and the quality of care for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u98	Madam Minister, it is not entirely clear to me. Are you really going in the direction desired by the different nursing associations? You say that the draft is approved by the Council of Ministers, that we must wait for the publication of the texts, etc. In concrete terms, what deadlines are you planning? I do not find your answer very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u99	As I said, we are still awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. The Royal Decree may need to be amended. As always, I must respect the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u100	Are you for the evolution desired by the associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u101	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u102	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u103	Madam Minister, if I can see clearly, you want to keep two lines of nursing and, in relation to what is emerging, I fear that we will not be in line with the content of the competences described in the European directive and clearly wanted by Europe. It's a real problem. You say you're continuing the consultations. That is something I would like to stress. You must re-consult the entire sector to have a consistent approach. It is also necessary to intricate the vision of the evolution of tasks, including with Royal Decree No. 78. It is in the best interests of tomorrow to have better trained caregivers who could be given some complementary skills. There is also a need for a level 6 nursing officer in charge of general care, as the European Union clearly points out. So I really plead for you to see the professional associations and the UGIB again. Minister, I was also asking you about your intention to remove the bonus system for specialty and nursing expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u104	It is not a question of abolishing premiums. That's really not the case. However, since there are too many sub-categories and special competences, etc., when Royal Decree No. 78 is revised, another classification of competences will be proposed without having all these sub-competences, which creates problems in hospitals. Everyone's skills are currently unclear. For hospital-based bed and breakfast patients, nine staff members pass through their rooms before they have a competent staff member to respond to their request. If we want to improve the efficiency and quality of the patient and ensure better cooperation, we cannot be talking about removing the premiums, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u105	Madam Minister, in the interests of consistency, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that many things need to be said in this regard. And, in my opinion, your answer is not complete. Perhaps you would like to opt for the IF-IC classification that would completely change the way we proceed at the level of specializations and nursing expertise? This classification has some pitfalls, such as the promotion of the nurse shopping system, which could create great instability in the nursing staff of the various hospitals. I shall return to this point because I really hope that we can make progress on this matter. Above all, the pitfalls associated with the choice of the classification system mentioned above must be well measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u106	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Work is progressing on the order. We now await the opinion of the Council of State and the forthcoming publication of the Council of State. At the next stage, which I consider to be just as, if not more important, it will be necessary to continue working with the sector in order to find a dynamic that will enable us to improve our health care significantly through the nursing profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u107	Colleagues, we will discuss with the minister whether we can quickly register a new question and answer session, as there are many of them. As the Carnival holidays are close, it would be appropriate to eliminate them. If some of them were to be turned into written questions, now is the time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic318x.u108	Madam President, I propose to turn my questions Nos 8287, 8272 and 8793 into written questions.
