ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u1	Colleagues, we are resuming our work and I would like once again to thank Minister Peeters for his availability, flexibility and total flexibility. I conveyed the message that colleagues who wished to do so could turn their oral questions into written questions and that they would then immediately receive the draft answer. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux transforms all her oral questions into written questions with the exception of her question No 13328. Ms. Winckel requested that her questions be deferred. Mr Klaps has also just turned his oral questions into written questions. Mrs. Lalieux will join us. She is currently chairing the Infrastructure Committee. As for colleagues who have questions on the agenda, if they have not given news, their questions will fall if they are not present at the time when they should ask them. Mr Crusnière is not present. His question No. 12955 becomes moot. The same applies to Question No 12983 by Mr Calomne. Question No 13142 by Mrs Gantois is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 13258 by Mrs Vanheste and Question No 13298 by Mrs Jadin. No word from Mr. Hellings. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 13445 will be converted into a written question. I haven't heard from Mrs. Van Cauter. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 13457 question is converted into a written question, as is her question No. 13514. We're calling Mr. Flahaux. No news from Mr. Ducarme. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 13583 will be converted into a written question. No news of Mrs. Temmerman. Question No 13757 by Mr Dallemagne is transformed into a written question. I will ask my question no. 13792 later. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 13799 will be converted into a written question. No word from Mr. Kir. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 14162 will be converted into a written question. No news from Mr. Vanden Burre. M. Van der Maelen viendra plustard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u2	Minister, this is a topical issue: trade agreements, confirmation of trade agreements, negotiation of trade agreements, personal opinions. I hope that the CETA Trade Agreement will be confirmed by Belgium and that everything will be done for that purpose. That's what's gonna happen. My question is about TTIP. You were right to have an economic impact study on the economic impact and effects of TTIP carried out at the request of various actors in Belgium. That report was presented by you in September. According to that report, there would be a positive impact of the conclusion of that free trade agreement between Europe and the United States and there would be an effective increase of 2.2 % to, at best, 8.7 % of GDP, to 31.2 billion euros in nominal terms, over time. From the point of view of SMEs, the report was presented. Particular attention has been paid to the SME aspect of TTIP and its negotiations. Following the press conference and the presentation of that report, I have a number of questions. It is positive that we have our own impact analysis for Belgium. On the basis of these figures, hopefully, we can come to a further debate and discussion. Which sectors will benefit most from the implementation of the Free Trade Agreement? Can you give more explanation, as well as your views and findings on that report and its conclusions? Several aspects have already been addressed to SMEs in the negotiation process. What impact will the agreement have on SMEs in Belgium? Can you confirm that the attention given to SMEs in the agreement will be monitored? How do you include the economic aspects, also from the FPS Economy, further in the negotiation process? The study would also show that the impact of TTIP would be more beneficial for our country in the event of a Brexit and the United Kingdom actually leaving the EU. What benefits will our country have in particular? Finally, how will this dossier be further addressed after communicating the results of its own impact analysis? How is it further used throughout the negotiation process from Belgium as a component, as a Member State, within the great negotiating process of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Smaers, this is the longest answer I had prepared. The others are tall, too. You are entitled to a full answer. The first part about the economic impact. As you rightly say, the assessment was presented to the press on 30 September and was immediately made available to the general public on the FPS Economy website. We are very transparent in everything we do. You have also been able to view this on the website. As far as the overall economic performance is concerned, this can be considered final. It is true that some aspects of the formulation, comments and interpretations can be tightened or watered down on the basis of the following aspects of the social and economic aspects of the study. The first section has been launched, the second and third sections which will include economic and social analysis are expected at the beginning of December. So it's a triptych and you should read it together. We have already decided to release this economic sector so that it can be debated. The deadline was postponed from the end of June to September due to the outcome of the referendum in the UK. The company was asked to adapt the data for the econometric models to the Brexit, with the UK being as close to the EU-27 economically as possible, and to do the impact calculations. As you know, as far as Brexit is concerned, there are different models: the Norwegian model, the Swiss model and so on. The Norwegian model has been taken here, which is closest to the EU-27. If you choose other models, for example the Swiss model, this will also have an impact on the calculations made. For these calculations a new calculation capacity had to be reserved, hence the delay until the end of September. The full study will be completed at the end of November and, as I said, will be presented at the beginning of December with the other two shutters. Precisely because we wanted the best possible report, I asked in mid-2015 to evaluate the various economic models available and to motivate the chosen models. The detailed argument in the first part of the study shows that Capaldo's 2014 study, which used the inappropriate UNGPM model, is unsuitable for such analysis, both on the basis of the methodological arguments and on the basis of the data used. Ecorys based his economic analysis on three methods. In addition to the classic bottom-up Computable General Equilibrium Model (CGE), Ecorys also made a hybrid analysis according to the structural gravity model, on which the CGE analysis was charged. I'm assuming all these things ring a bell with you. The structural gravity model brings together the effects on the number of FTEs in an economic model of observed field effects and projected on TTIP possibilities. This should produce more credible results, as it relies on empirically established data. In the social and environmental impact analysis, the CGE model is completed with the EDMG model. Consequently, several models were used for that study. In addition, data from eight different data sources were used. With all this explanation, I would like to emphasise that the current study was carried out according to the rules of art. Studies are put away rather quickly because of their non-objective approach, but in this case extra attention has been paid to combining all these models in great independence and with extra science, so that any criticism of the study has to be looked at with a great deal of knowledge. A great deal of care has been taken to ensure that this study is properly developed. I therefore believe that the government has made every effort to use the best scientific methodology, using as broad and up-to-date a basis as possible. This is very important to ensure that this study is not defined as drawn up from a single angle, so that the conclusions can be questioned. We have ensured that this can absolutely be avoided. The study is very thorough. The impact of a US-EU trade agreement will affect sectors in different ways. The chemicals sector, other sectors (including R&D, security, postal and courier services), petrochemicals, beverages, tobacco, construction and trade will have a positive impact on the implementation of TTIP. On the other hand, sectors such as the manufacture of computer products, the manufacture and repair of machinery and equipment and other machinery and the manufacture of means of transport will be affected. So there it is less positive. The study provides us with more detailed information on the effects by sector. I've worked all that out nicely for you, Mrs. Smaers. I can read that in a soft voice, but it might be more convenient for you to get that later. It is also about chemicals, the other services for which there are positive effects, as well as other sectors where there are reductions and so on. You also asked about SMEs. Studies show that SMEs are disproportionately more affected than large firms because of trade barriers, due to a lack of resources to deal with them. This implies that SMEs are expected to gain proportionally more from the TTIP agreement than large companies. As you know, SMEs are a very important part of the Belgian economy. So that's very good. It is also important to note that the total output of SMEs is expected to increase in each province. Especially in the provinces of Namur, Hainaut, Luxembourg, Limburg and East Flanders, SMEs are expected to win relatively more, while SMEs in West Flanders, Flemish Brabant and Liège will also win, but relatively less. The provinces of the Walloon Region are gaining relatively less, but a change in the economic context would allow the infrastructure of the Walloon economy to be linked to the global value chain. It also has consequences if certain sectors progress and gain more. The question is then: where are these sectors and are they SMEs? Then, of course, we come to such conclusions. The main SME-intensive sectors, where more than 90% of all Belgian SMEs are catalogued, are winning: in business services, trade, construction and personal services, an increase in output is expected as a result of TTIP, except for communications, for which a small decrease of 0.34% is predicted. I can also give you the sectoral impact of TTIP per province, but I don't think that's necessary. Unless you insist, I'd be happy to read it to you. I can get you this in a minute. Again, if certain sectors progress, the first question is: where, in which province, are these sectors mainly active? If these are sectors in which SMEs are very strongly present, then it will also have its impact. That is the simple reasoning or the thinking that has been followed here. SMEs are among the great potential winners of the Transatlantic Treaty. Mostly those targeting exports will benefit effectively from the reduction or elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers. In addition, previous figures that I will hand over to you show that many SMEs will benefit indirectly. Both the European Commission and our country will pay particular attention to the interests of our SMEs. The SMEs who oppose TTIP are, in my view, mistaken and even shoot a little in their own foot. The study has clearly shown that the impact of TTIP is more beneficial to the EU and our country in the event that the UK leaves the EU; that will be positive for the European Union, but even more positive for our country in particular. Indeed, companies from other EU countries will gain market shares from UK companies on the US market because their market access will become less favourable compared to those of EU companies. So, in ordinary human language: when UK leaves the European Union, Europe will benefit from it because, of course, those American companies will no longer pass the UK to the mainland. Belgium will also benefit from this because it will be more likely to use the first port of Belgium. Mr Smaers, I will also give you a lot of documents if my colleagues allow me to do so. They'll let me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u4	That is what we can call a comprehensive answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u5	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the written answers. It was indeed not necessary to explain everything in detail orally. In the end, I added a fourth question. How will you deal with this further, with a view to the further negotiation process in Belgium and Europe? I assume that the results of the report will be added to the whole negotiation process. What are they taking out of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u7	At the beginning of December we will have the triptych fully ready. It's already been announced. When the triptych is ready, we will also bring it to the attention of the negotiators. We hope that, not only here in Belgium, we will be able to discuss the report further and make the right assessments in a good way. For the negotiators, we will do everything we can to ensure that, as far as Belgium is concerned, we can negotiate further with knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u8	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to information published in the press, it would appear that within the same store, the price of an identical item is different according to its language version. Thus, a toy can be more expensive depending on whether the vocal device is in French rather than Dutch, and vice versa It is therefore not a linguistic problem, the situation being general and more on the side of product design. This situation legitimately raises a question because it means that, depending on the product, consumers are not treated in the same way according to their language. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what are the factors that explain these price differences? To what extent does the law protect consumers from price increases that appear to find no justification? Finally, are measures to raise the awareness of economic actors planned at this stage to address this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u9	Mr President, Mr Calomne, companies obviously freely fix the price of the products they place on the market. They shall do so taking into account, in particular, the costs of production, manufacturing or, for intermediaries and resellers, the distribution channels to which they have access and their purchase price. It may happen that certain articles designed in a language, in order to be distributed in Belgium, must be translated or that different copyrights are applicable to them. The cost of such translation or rights may therefore be recovered from the final selling price charged to the consumer. Thus, it is not uncommon for books to be sold at different prices according to their language versions. In addition, products designed in several language versions can be considered as different products. Such a practice is therefore not in itself prohibited and is a matter for business commercial policy. The Economic Inspectorate has confirmed that I do not receive any complaints about this. At this stage, it does not seem useful to me to provide for measures to raise the awareness of companies. But, Mr. Calomne, if you had any further information, I am prepared to ask the inspections to examine the cases you have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for that answer. I will of course not hesitate to come back to you if more specific cases arise. I shall inform you of this, if necessary, by written parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u11	Deputy Prime Minister, according to information published in the press, the SPF Economy would develop an informative brochure for traders about potentially useful products for terrorists. The aim of this brochure would be to make it easier for traders to alert authorities of suspected cases. In this sense, traders would be asked to testify, as far as possible, to federal police investigators about clients who seem nervous to them, who do not provide a logical explanation of the quantities purchased or who pay for their purchases with large amounts of cash. In this regard, DIY, painting and pharmacies have already received information on how to respond to a suspicious situation, particularly in the case of purchases in large quantities of acetone, sulphuric acid or fertilizer. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm this information and, if so, describe the government's objectives? When will this brochure be distributed, and by what channels? In addition to the informative brochure, what will be the means available to traders to help law enforcement officials as best they can? Does an internet address or a special telephone line have a preference for your services? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u12	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I confirm that a brochure is being prepared to inform the professional sectors concerned of their respective responsibilities with regard to the regulations in force. This is a ban on the sale of certain products to consumers and a duty to report suspicious purchases of products included in a list annexed to the European ad hoc regulation. Since several professional sectors and control bodies are consulted for its preparation, I believe that the brochure will be available at the end of the year. The Economy FPS site contains a page dedicated to explosives precursors. All relevant information will be included, including contact details of the contact point with the Federal Police. This is an email address and a telephone number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u13	Mr President, I thank the Minister for having answered my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u14	Mr President, Minister, in the spring I asked you about a state of play on the introduction of family care insurance. The carers themselves are a requesting party to the introduction of a specific family care insurance scheme in order to be able to insure their own risks, both physical accidents and civil liability. You replied at that time that you had brought the family care organizations into contact with the insurance companies that offer non-life insurance. At that time, it was still a question of finding agreements on the price, some provisions and perhaps also on the clauses in the insurance policies themselves. You said that by the summer of this year the family care insurance should be in order. Now that the summer is over, I ask you once again about the state of play. Has an agreement been reached between the providers of family care insurance, on the one hand, and the family care organizations and your cabinet, on the other? Will family care insurance be available in the short term and with which providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I can give you an extremely brief answer to this: another matter of extremes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u16	This may have to do with your previous reply to Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u17	That's right. Several insurance companies are already offering insurance policies on the market. This insurance covers liability for physical damage and damage to appliances used as part of the household care. In addition, legal aid is offered in the policy. The care organizations can therefore find on the market a product that meets their needs. It is now up to them to explore the market and to negotiate separately with insurers the modalities of their policy on family care insurance. I believe we have completed our mission. The policy is on the market and can, of course, still be adapted, depending on the care organizations. I hope that they will use this new situation to actually close the insurance policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u18	Minister, I understand from your answer that you are no longer a player in this matter and that there is now a need to discuss between insurers and the care organizations. You may be following that process. Were there any effective policies in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u19	According to my associate, there are already contacts, but for the time being, no contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u20	Mr President, Minister, since 13 September, users of HP printers have no longer been able to use ink cartridges from other brands. They get an error message, with the message that the patterns present are corrupted and need to be replaced. Only the patterns of HP still work in these printers. In the meantime, the company has announced that since 2015 it has developed software updates that make this possible. This update was released in March 2016 and from the pre-programmed date of 13 September only HP's ink cartridges will work. In this way, HP ensures that only its expensive patterns can be used and thus creates a kind of monopoly or tying, where it can charge a lot of money for a product that doesn't really cost much. We calculated the profit margin once and I fell back as it were. The cheapest patterns of HP cost in the shop just under 14 euros for 3 ml ink. This amounts to 4 663 euros per litre of ink, while a litre, even the quality one, costs about 20 euros. So that's an immense profit margin. This business model, where the cost of fillings in the long term exceeds the purchase price of the parent device, is not unprecedented. I am thinking, for example, of the Senseo coffee makers, where Senseo once tried to get the coffee pads of cheaper brands out of the shops. This was not possible and changes via updates of the software were technically not feasible. It is clear that there cannot be an exclusive link between a device and its accessories. After all, that's tying. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Are you aware of HP's commercial practices? Do you know if other big brands, like Canon, do too? If they do so, will they violate Belgian law? Will you instruct the inspection to investigate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Detiège, I am now aware of the problem of HP ink patterns. I can tell you more: recently, the FPS Economy hotline received three complaints about this. These practices need to be considered from two angles, namely those of the rules on competition and those of unfair commercial practices. As regards competition, the practice could infringe competition law if HP, first, is considered to be a dominant undertaking and, second, abuses its dominant position within the meaning of Article IV.2 of the Economic Law Code. If both conditions are met, the abuse of a dominant position may be expressly prohibited. It is up to the Belgian Competition Authority to take action in this area. It could also be unfair commercial practices prohibited by the Economic Law Code. To that end, it is necessary to examine whether this is a possible misleading commercial practice, which affects the average consumer on the basis of incorrect or incomplete data in his economic behaviour and/or an aggressive commercial practice which, by coercion or undue influence, restricts the choice or freedom of action of the average consumer. I think you will be most interested in the last point, although the previous one was very interesting. The Economic Inspectorate will examine this further in its role as a regulator of fair commercial practices and will also launch a counter-examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. You are talking about a possible abuse of a dominant position, and that seems to me to be an effective issue here. The same applies to unfair commercial practices. I also hear you say that if the consumer's freedom of choice is compromised, there will be consequences. Now we have no choice, so that is very clear. I suspect the Economic Inspectorate will provide a clear answer. I would also like to receive the result of your cabinet. All people who use such printers will be pleased with this. I knew this was expensive anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u23	One of my collaborators has been instructed to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u24	Minister, you yourself have just spoken about the focal point of the FPS Economy. There were three new complaints about HP. I have also noted that the hotline has received almost 14 000 complaints after six months. That's an impressive number in such a short time. It also proves that there is a need for such a hotline and that even more publicity needs to be given to the public. Cooperation between the various services provides a clear hotline for citizens and businesses. The fact that 45% of notifications are on-line trading indicates that particular attention should be paid to this. How many of the incoming reports do you think are justified? Can you give an estimate of that? How many reports have been fully treated? What are the results? How much time is on average between the notification and the result? How will you ensure that even more citizens and businesses find their way to the hotline? How is cooperation between the different agencies going? Finally, when do you expect an initial analysis report from the hotline, with hopefully a series of recommendations, which we in Parliament can take to heart?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u25	Mr Detiège, I can give you the latest figures on 5 October. The number of notifications was until 5 October 15 037. So the figure you gave has already been exceeded. Of these, 14 390 were allocated by the system to the Economic Inspectorate. A problem which has been reported may fall within the competence of several bodies. The reports shall be analysed in different steps on the content, severity, risk and feasibility of research. Thus, 5 831 notifications have been made for further investigation. So that's one in four, quickly calculated. For this purpose 1 429 research files were created at the Economic Inspectorate. On 5 October, 425 had been dealt with. In more than 100 cases, this has led to a warning or repressive action. The hotline does not allow to calculate the average duration times. My administration regularly communicates about the hotline and uses different channels. It will continue to do so in the future. When it is timely, we can communicate ourselves, in great modesty. A press release on the hotline was published on 23 September. According to the services of the FPS Economy, the cooperation between the various bodies and research institutes that are partners at the hotline is smooth and according to the agreements made. The Economic Inspection shall continuously monitor the operation of the hotline. In terms of content, it also determines control activities, on which it draws up an annual detailed activity report. The report is an important input in defining and evaluating the policies pursued. If it is your question to discuss that activity report here, I would be happy to evaluate policy elements in this context or to add new elements to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u26	Mr Minister, you have already given my reply. When the annual activity report is available, I will be very happy to discuss with you what priorities can be put forward. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u27	It will be delivered to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u28	Minister, this question was made a few weeks ago. We have already had discussions with the government on this, but it is important for the people in our country to have a clear answer to the questions they have been having about this for a few months. In the summer, you yourself raised the alarm because inflation in Belgium is very high, especially in relation to our neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe. In the second quarter inflation was 1.6 % and in July it even rose to 2.28 %. There were virtually no price increases in our neighbouring countries. Of course, a large part of the increase is due to the increase in electricity prices. I also know that the cause of this is at a different level, but it is 40,6%, entirely due to government decisions. Prices also increased in the case of services. This increase has been above 2% for 31 months now. You have rightly asked your services to investigate this inflation and to map it fully. Of course, I welcome this research, because then we can discuss it on the basis of objective figures. I have the following questions. What exactly did you order your services to do? What will they investigate, or have they already investigated, and what is the research question? How far will one go to check the underlying parameters and influences? Will comparisons be made in the research with other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u29	Mr Detiège, within the framework of the Institute of National Accounts, the FPS Economy, specifically the Prize Observatory, and the General Directorate of Statistics, the Federal Planning Bureau and the National Bank of Belgium are working together on the investigation of service inflation, to which you refer and for which I raised the alarm a while ago, during the summer. It is the rising prices of services that have contributed most to higher inflation in Belgium in recent years. The study first explains the rising prices of services, then focuses on the factors that could explain why service inflation is both short and long term higher than average in our main neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and Germany. Two research trails are being followed. On the one hand, there will be a more macroeconomic approach to explaining higher service inflation in Belgium. Possible approaches include the degree of competition within the relevant services sectors in Belgium, the evolution of productivity and the level of regulation and margins. On the other hand, a more micro-economic approach will also be followed to explain three very specific categories of services that are at the basis of higher accumulated inflation in Belgium between 2008 and 2015. These include restaurants and cafes, cultural services and telecommunications services. The explanation of the inflation gap with our main neighbouring countries will be followed by both a statistical approach, which will focus on the three categories I have just mentioned, and an analysis of the functioning of the market. The statistical analysis is based on detailed information from the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices. In addition, discussions are also taking place with statistical institutions in neighbouring countries in order to gain more insight into certain elements of their service inflation. In order to analyse market forces, discussions are ongoing with the various federations in Belgium. In addition, official statistics and sources are used to identify possible factors explaining the strong price evolution in Belgium. Subject to available sources, comparison with neighbouring countries will be addressed as far as possible. I think it is a very solid study, on which some small ones were done. That was because it was summer then, I think. Thank you for the question. You are also looking forward to the result. When you ask when it will come, I will reply that it will not be tomorrow, but that the first interim report will probably be ready in November. We're doing everything we can to get that timing. Then we shall discuss this further. I am pleased that the various services are working together and taking a serious approach so that we can have a serious political debate here in committee or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u30	Minister, I am a little more positive than those who would have written or said that about you. I grew up in a poor neighborhood because my grandfather made me. I realize the impact on who lives there. You're making the effort to conduct an investigation. I therefore assume that this will be followed by measures. I am therefore very interested in your approach. In the Netherlands they sometimes use a very different system than we do, which fascinates me. This raises the question of what opportunities there are to act in a good, healthy way. You announced the report for November this year. I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u31	Minister, it is about a committee that I have been following for a long time, but I got sick at the time and I would like to know the end result. The figures for dieselgate were terrifying, especially in terms of health. I remember that the figures for exhausting unhealthy substances for the region of Antwerp, where I live, were really disturbing. Of course, that's not the only reason I'm asking. In April of this year, following the scandal, we adopted a series of recommendations in Parliament. These recommendations were made for different topics. In addition to the recommendations, we had also asked the government to draw up an action plan and to hold a debate in each committee responsible within six months on the progress of the implementation of the recommendations. The government was to draw up a table containing an overview of the follow-up to the recommendations and the implementation of the Action Plan. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you explain the latest version of the follow-up table? Can you give us the action plan with a timing of the actions you and your fellow Members will take? Could you, in consultation with the respective committee chairmen, draw up an agenda to discuss the follow-up to the diesel gate dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Detiège, I would like to comment on your last suggestion. We can bring forward the follow-up to the recommendations that fall within my competence. I do not have any say in the work of the committee, but I am happy to explain the progress. A follow-up table can then be drawn up with an overview of the implementation of the recommendations. I can also go into it in detail now, but that will take a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u33	In the interests of the dossier, it is a good thing that we raise that point in committee, if you agree, Mr President, so that all Members can follow in and everything can be properly discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thanks to an investigation published by Le Monde on 21 June 2016, we learned that the Lafarge Group paid taxes in Daesh between 2013 and 2014 to operate its Jalabiya cement factory in northern Syria during the current war. Thus, from 2013, the presence of Daesh in the region prompted the cement manufacturer Lafarge to negotiate rights of passage to the various checkpoints held by the jihadists for its carriers. At the same time, Lafarge supplied oil to crude dealers from fields held by the terrorist organization. For a year, Lafarge was indirectly involved in the financing of Daesh. These financial flows ceased on September 19, 2014, when the jihadists themselves took possession of the company. As a reminder, the GBL group, managed by Belgian investor Albert Frère, is a shareholder in the amount of 9.4% of what has become today the LafargeHolcim group. Before the merger between Lafarge and Holcim, which took place in July 2015, the holding company of our compatriot owned around 20% of the shares of the French cement manufacturer. Your colleague in charge of foreign affairs, during an exchange I had with him on the same subject on 6 July 2016 told me, to my astonishment that, according to figures transmitted to him by the Agency for Foreign Trade, 997 Belgian companies would be active in Syria and 864 in Iraq. Minister, could you please tell me whether the SPF Economy has an equivalent list of Belgian companies, investors and/or financial groups active in Iraq and Syria? How many names does it currently contain? Could you please tell me whether any guidelines have been transmitted by the SPF Economy to these Belgian companies in the context of the fight against the financing of Daesh? When and in what forms have these recommendations been disseminated to interested companies? Have you taken any steps with the financial group GBL to protest strongly against this proven economic collaboration with Daesh, which is totally in violation of Belgian laws aimed at combating the financing of terrorist acts, but also the positions and interests defended by your government colleagues, in foreign affairs and defence, in the fight against Daesh, both diplomatically and militarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u35	Mr President, Mr Hellings, I will be very brief because the SPF Economy does not have a list of Belgian companies active in Iraq and Syria. Belgium applies the embargo measures resulting from United Nations resolutions as well as European Union decisions and regulations. No further limitations or guidelines are imposed. Information on these embargo measures can be found on the FPS Foreign Affairs website. To the extent that the Lafarge Group has its head office in Paris, the French authorities are responsible for implementing and monitoring the implementation of the embargo measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u36	Mr Minister, on the external front of subjects, on which I have specialized, Belgium sent six F-16s to Iraq and Syria, and thirty soldiers, trainers of Iraqi military in Iraq. On the internal front, therefore at the level of Foreign Affairs, at the level of the FPS Finances, since I asked your colleague in charge of Finance on the same subject, and at the level of the FPS Economy also – what I have just learned – nothing, absolutely nothing is done to try to trace the financing of the jihadist group in Belgium. Belgian financial groups are trading indirectly and getting rich on the backs of jihadists, and on the backs of people who are now the subject of the discrimination in question. It is completely illogical and worrying to invest as many resources in the external struggle and not to invest anything in what we can achieve here in the control of what our companies or financial groups carry out in Iraq or Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u37	Mr President, Minister, last July Brussels Airlines decided to withdraw from the meal trays it serves on its flights between Tel Aviv and Brussels, a dessert made in an Israeli company located in the colony of Barkan, in the West Bank, therefore in occupied territory. Distributing this product contributes to the promotion of illegal economic activity under international law. The company's spokesman then told the press that it was "a fault of the supplier, rectified since." This decision was so publicised in Israel that the Belgian company was threatened with boycott. The Israeli Minister of Tourism even demanded the exclusion of the Belgian airline from Israeli airspace, which is not nothing. On 29 August, Brussels Airlines therefore reverted to its initial decision to remove this product and reinstated the illegal dessert in its offer. The company's communications department then declared: "In consultation with the Israeli government, we decided to correct our fault" and to add that "the decision to withdraw this product, which was properly labelled, was not the right one because it was not politically neutral". Hence, minister, my three questions. Throughout these discussions between Brussels Airlines and the Israeli government, has Brussels Airlines contacted the SPF Economy to seek its opinion and/or support? Did the SPF give him any? Have the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Economy worked together on this since you are responsible, with the FPS Foreign Affairs, for the labelling recommendations? This sad case shows once again that labelling policy is poorly applied in Belgium and Europe. Could you please tell me whether, in this particular case, the labelling conformed to the European requirements which our country courageously chose to follow and which recommends the indication "West Bank product (Israeli colonia)" on each commodity concerned? In view of this disastrous experience for a Belgian company, or in any case still Belgian, important, do you not think that the Belgian position should be changed in this respect? Indeed, in the absence of a national or European rule allowing the prohibition of the sale of these illegally manufactured products, private actors are directly exposed in the event of non-marketing of these products. A trade ban would not only allow our country to be in line with the constant jurisprudence of the various United Nations bodies, but would protect our companies from economic attacks such as those observed this summer in the case of Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the SPF Economy has informed me that it has not been contacted by Brussels Airlines and it does not know whether any contacts have taken place with the SPF Foreign Affairs. Secondly, either the indication of origin is mandatory for a product according to specific rules, and if it is not included in the labelling constitutes an infringement of these particular rules, or it is an initiative by which the company decides to indicate the origin, and in this case the law prohibits misleading statements for the consumer. In the Belgian recommendation, to which the European interpretative notice gives a very clear character, it is therefore possible that the product concerned would not include any particular reference to its origin. For products not subject to an obligation to indicate their origin, Brussels Airlines or the Israeli producer are free to decide on their commercial policy for informing consumers of such products. In addition, if the word "Israeli settlement product" is recommended, any other misleading statement to the consumer is likely to be used. Thirdly, to the extent that products from the occupied territories are legally exported by Israel to the territory of the European Union, in accordance with customs rules, a trade ban on Belgian territory would be considered to be contrary to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u39	Mr Minister, the new element in the Brussels Airlines case was that the lack of clarity of labelling poses not only a problem of human and economic rights, but also a problem of image and operational management for Belgian companies. We all need to move from a system where products from Israeli settlements are squeezed to a system where we do not just label but give clear guidelines. I have evolved on this issue, but it is the experience that guides us towards actions to be taken. The ban on products produced in areas occupied by Israel in Palestine seems to me to be the only right rule and seems to me to be effective from an economic point of view and from the point of view of respecting the interests of our companies and our workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u40	Minister, I tabled my question in early September when the statistics were provided by the FPS Economy. In 2014, the Higher Council of Statistics worked on a reform of tourism statistics, implemented on the basis of 2015 data, resulting in changes in the methodology used to make the figures compared to 2014. As part of this reform, it was decided that the universe of the statistical survey should be clearly defined, with the aim of determining who should respond to tourism statistics. Thus, following an amendment to the Royal Decree of 12 January 2015, the universe of the statistical survey was reduced to licensed, registered, recognized or authorized dwellings – each of these words probably of importance. The world of accommodation facilities is therefore currently defined on the basis of lists comprising all licensed, declared, licensed accommodation; this was not the case before. Unrecognized accommodations were, before 2015, also part of the scope of the investigation. These lists are drawn up by regional partners (Toerisme Vlaanderen, Office of the Commissioner-General for Tourism, COCOF and the German-speaking Community) and forwarded to DG Statistics Belgium. For example, respondents who were no longer interviewed in 2015 represented 1,908,000 overnight stays in 2014 out of a total of 32,605,000 overnight stays. It is therefore about 6% of them who eventually disappear from the statistics. I come to the concrete consequences. On the one hand, some data no longer appear in the 2015 figures compared to 2014 and, on the other hand, a new type of accommodation has emerged, in this case "holiday homes, apartments and furnished holiday homes". Similarly, it comes to my mind that the figures obtained for this new category are based on a provincial sampling, except for the Belgian coast, where real estate agencies are interviewed. This poses a problem to me in terms of the quality and credibility of the new statistics as they are collected. With regard to "holiday centres and villages", the National Statistical Institute currently has a "social tourism" flag for this category. There may be differences in definitions between holiday villages and social tourism, but due to the confidentiality procedures imposed on the administration, it is currently impossible to disseminate these figures on the relevant FPS website. Only researchers and regional statistical bodies have access to this information, subject to certain limitations in terms of confidentiality, at the time of publication of their work. The Royal Decree of 9 April 1991 prescribing monthly statistics on tourism and hotels does not explicitly mention holiday centres and villages. In addition, figures for some municipalities have been considered confidential in the context of the implementation of the FPS Economy Privacy Policy measures. They no longer appear on the STATBEL site. It goes without saying that this confidentiality distorts analyses as long as, by definition, the data are incomplete. This notion of confidentiality, which leads to the failure to publish statistics from entire municipalities, no longer makes any sense. These changes also make it impossible to compare between 2015 and previous years. We are faced with what is called a statistical break-up. Mr Minister, I am interested in the issue of tourism in my commune. I invite you to do that. After your reforms on fair taxation, you may have time to visit us, relax and have a good time in a beautiful green town. That said, Minister, the representatives of the Regions have been involved in the work on the reform of tourism statistics. How did this thinking go? Has this federal reform been accepted? Has it had the proper approval of the Regions? Do you confirm the statistical breakdown that no longer makes it possible to compare with previous years? Housing is no longer included in the 2015 statistics. Compared to 2014, how many filers will no longer be surveyed? In fact, compared to 2014, how many nights will they no longer be counted? With regard to the addition of a new category of housing, can you give me the exact figures as to their number? Why did you choose to work by sampling at the provincial level? Can you give me the reasons why the administration considered certain figures confidential? How many municipalities are involved? Can you remedy this deficiency in the current system? Another means of transport and accommodation that is growing more and more, namely the motorhome-mobilhome does not appear anywhere. This is a new societal phenomenon. Can you take an initiative to publish statistics on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u41	So there are six questions. First question, the answer is that the reform of tourism statistics was prepared in a working group of the Higher Statistical Council which met twice in early 2014. The various regional, community and provincial tourism bodies participated in these meetings. As the working group reached consensus at its meeting on 25 February 2014, the reform was put on the agenda of the plenary session of the Higher Statistical Council on 5 May 2014. In accordance with the Law on Public Statistics, the Higher Statistical Council, in which the regional statistical bodies are represented, has been asked to deliver an opinion on the draft amendment to the Royal Decree. The High Council of Statistics unanimously delivered a favourable opinion on the proposal for a royal decree as presented by the Directorate-General for Statistics, Statistics Belgium, in plenary session. The second element: indeed, the reform has led to a break in the results. When certain types of tourist accommodation, including non-recognized accommodation, are no longer included in the statistical field, while new accommodation is taken into account, comparisons between the total number of arrivals or overnight stays are no longer possible from year to year. However, for Belgium, Regions, provinces and tourist regions, the results are published by type of accommodation. Based on the types of accommodation, it is therefore possible to make some comparisons between the 2014 and 2015 results. With regard to the third and fourth questions, I can illustrate the break with a few figures. Nearly 600 filers are no longer surveyed in 2015. In 2014, they accounted for almost two million nights out of a total of 32.5 million. Furthermore, on the basis of information provided by the regional and Community bodies responsible for tourism, in 2015 some 3,000 holiday homes, apartments and furnished holiday homes were added to the field of statistics as well as 137 tourist rental agencies in order to cover as best as possible the Belgian coast rentals. The selection of a stratification of sampling at the provincial level was carried out in such a way as to best meet the needs of the various users of statistics. As far as confidentiality is concerned, we comply with the law on public statistics and European rules on confidentiality. This is why DG Statistics uses statistical software developed by the European statistical system to harmonise published results. The result of these confidentiality measures is that the results for the 132 municipalities cannot be published. The only way to remedy this would be to obtain permission from all registrants so that their data can be identified when the results are published. This option is obviously not realistic. Finally, one could theoretically consider including motorhomes and mobile homes in the fields of statistics, provided that the regional partners in charge of tourism are able to provide us with a list of land for these types of accommodation. In addition, it will be necessary to investigate whether the basic information required for the compilation of statistics is available. There is no doubt that regional statistical authorities are best placed to study the issue. It should also be borne in mind that this would mean an increase in the burden for registrants, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u42	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I admit that my question was a little long and a little technical, but you understand that I am interested in the tourism sector for my commune and my region and also in my professional background in a previous life. I am also interested in statistics, because they allow analysis. Regions and provinces define tourism policies. Therefore, housing data, in particular, are crucial for policy guidance. I have pointed out a number not of malfunctions but of problems. In any case, this statistical breakdown presents me with a lot of difficulties. You said that the reform had been the subject of consensus. I'll take note of that. I am well aware that this is a fairly long and cumbersome process, due to the number of interlocutors. If we change it again, we're going to create a new break in the future. Analysis therefore becomes unreadable over time. You have given us a number of figures which I will read in your written reply. I thank you for the statistics you provide to me, which partly confirm what I had described in my question. The issue of confidentiality is the most frustrating. I understand that there is a European regulation, but finally, if there are no more statistics in 132 communes, this misconstrues any analysis. That absolutely does not mean anything. Requesting the permission of all registrants is impossible or then only statistics should be given for those who would allow it. Minister, we really need to find a solution. I don't know which one, but I invite you to look for one with your administration because, in the past, we were not confronted with this problem, at least not to the same extent, it seems to me. This also distorts any analysis of evolution and comparisons, for example, when tourist houses come together. There is really a reflection on the structure of the offer. It is quite important to have statistics that are not empty because of this element of confidentiality. Finally, with regard to the last point concerning mobile homes and motorhomes, should you take an initiative with the experts, it would be good to include this new type of accommodation in future statistics so that they correspond as much as possible to the reality of the tourist accommodation sector in the different regions and communities of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u43	The holiday period is conducive to the multiplication of scams on the internet. Usually a hacked email address sends alarming messages and asks for help with the hacker's address book. There is very little talk about it, so a number of people get caught and send money to the indicated account, sometimes large amounts up to 10 000 euros. Has a policy of prevention already been envisaged with regard to these scams? For my part, I hear very rarely about these scams – I have no knowledge of a recent prevention campaign – and when the press relays this information, it is often to tell us the case of scams when the harm is done. Is there not an urgent prevention policy to be put in place? These scams are numerous and campaigns conducted throughout the year to prevent users could lead to a decrease in the number of people abused
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u44	Mrs. Lalieux, I have two little books here for you. The hacking of emails and Facebook accounts in order to extort money from the victim's friends is a well-known phenomenon of my administration. Although the latter is not competent to intervene against this practice, it tries to raise citizens' awareness regularly through various media. You've already received the information. On 29 March, the SPF Economy posted a short awareness-raising video on its website, Youtube, Twitter and Facebook. The video has been viewed 44,713 times in total. The Dutch-speaking version has been viewed 20,654 times and the French-speaking version, 24,059. The video "True friends-false accounts" is still on the "scams" page of the SPF Economy website. Also in March, my administration published a publication aimed at preventing and sensitizing consumers to the forms of scams and other offences. This publication consists of some 20 fact sheets. One of these concerns the problem here. In the last two years, as part of the prevention against fraud, my administration has given an awareness-raising course to Belgian social workers, where the problem is also present. In the future, my administration will continue to communicate on the various forms of scams through various media. Finally, I would like to recall the existence of the contact point that was launched on 22 February, where citizens can denounce any form of consumer or scam problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I was in fact missing everything. Forty-four thousand views are not so many out of 11 million Belgians. It's still too little! It is important to constantly make these kinds of communications and revivals on all media channels so that people can access this communication, which I think is very playful and very well done. It is essential to know that! May the FPS Economy perhaps continue to make a more media campaign on this issue so that everyone has access to this information, since it exists!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u46	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar highlights a problem that we have been raising for years with respect to mortgage repayments. Indeed, a worker who loses his job must nevertheless continue to honour his credit commitments. Many workers see themselves in this way under the possible double penalty: losing their work but also risk losing their home, often their children's family home. We have been fighting for a long time to incorporate into the law on mortgage credit the possibility of adjusting the terms of repayment, for example by extending their duration at no cost. This would give a breath of oxygen to citizens who would otherwise risk seeing any hope disappear, but above all, to see their house put on public sale. Minister, if you really want to provide practical assistance to Caterpillar workers and all of its subcontractors and their families, which I have no doubt about, we ask you to incorporate this into the law, or at least negotiate this possibility with the insurance companies. This would be a significant step forward for workers around Caterpillar, but also for all consumers facing the hazards of life. Our proposed legislation provided for all of these options for development. I introduced amendments when the mortgage bill was reformed. I think it's a missed opportunity. But we can always fix a substantial mistake, minister. Now we can mention ING, AXA, the thousands of workers who are losing their jobs at the moment. We could plan for adjustments as long as they find a job, hoping they will find one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u47	Mr.President, Ms.Lalieux, as part of the April 22, 2016 law on consumer credit and mortgage credit, significant changes and new developments have been incorporated in the mortgage credit agreement. Among these, the consumer will be able to apply to the lender for changes to the terms and/or security rights of the current credit agreement for mortgage credit for real estate purposes. The lender is free to grant or deny this request. In addition, the Code of Conduct of the Professional Credit Union, one of the constituent associations of Febelfin, incorporates the ten principles of contracting and granting mortgage and consumer credit in a responsible and enforceable manner for the courts. This Code of Conduct contains a number of commitments to find solutions that meet the needs of clients, particularly in the event of an unexpected life event, to review changes to the terms and conditions for the reimbursement of contracts or credits. On the basis of this code of conduct, as was the case when Ford Genk was closed, the same type of arrangement for Caterpillar was chosen for its workers and subcontracting companies. The modifications requested by the consumer and made to the mortgage agreement for real estate are thus authorised without de facto implying the establishment of a new authentic act and the intervention of a notary, representing a very important cost to the consumer, and a barrier to the possibility of adapting his credit agreement to all the developments and circumstances of his existence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u48	Minister, if I understand you correctly, under the code of conduct, the individual who has, for example, lost his or her job, could renegotiate the duration of his or her credit without a notarial act, except that it is a negotiation if not a case. You are Minister of Consumer Protection, Economy and Employment. Therefore, the whole issue is embraced by one man. So I think you need to give a clear signal. This means that you can summon all the institutions in the sector to remind them of the existence of this code of conduct and announce to them that there will be special supervision of the SPF Economy – it can, today – with regard to this redevelopment. The latter must be able to be done free of charge and the person will not have to pay ten times his or her home. The adjustment must therefore be adapted, for example, according to the cost of interest or the repayment of capital. This cannot be done at the expense of the consumer. I very sincerely believe that you can give a strong signal to these credit institutions and indicate the way to ensure that the worker does not become the stuffing turkey by paying more. Here's a proposal. I hope you take the leap to help those workers who don't have a pink future in perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u49	Mrs Dierick's attached question No 13514 is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u50	Minister, under the law, the lender may provide for compensation for cases of full or partial early repayment. This allowance must be calculated, at the borrowing rate of the credit, on the amount of the remaining balance due; it may not exceed three months of interest. Prior to September 1, when a client requested a refinancing, if granted, he was paid the three-month employment allowance and the "new file" fee. According to BNP's announcement today, they will have the same employment allowance with a fee of 700 euros, which is 200 euros more than for a "real new case". Renegotiating a job becomes more expensive than a new file. That would be purely and simply illegal, in my opinion. The employment allowance is intended to offset the bank's damage on a lump sum basis following the advance repayment. There is no justification for the fact that she now claims higher fees for the "new file" while she only claims 500 euros for a real new file, i.e. a mortgage credit that starts. This excess of costs can only be analysed as an additional penalty for the Re-employment Allowance. And the law strictly prohibits it. It could claim EUR 700 for refinancing only on two cumulative conditions: if this amount was provided for in its tariff and if it did not claim the three months of re-employment. Legally, it would be an endorsement to the old contract and not an early repayment followed by a new credit. In this case, however, the bank also seeks compensation, the excess of costs. This can therefore be understood as an illegal sanction. Have you been aware of this case? What do you intend to do? Has the economic inspection of the FPS Economy been notified? A warning against BNP would seem to me the minimum that one can expect from its services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u51	Mrs Lalieux, I can confirm that I have had a consultation with BNP Paribas Fortis as well as with Febelfin and that a new consultation is planned with the banking sector in order to be able to exchange our ideas on the various challenges of the sector. It is indeed important to have a thorough understanding of all the challenges facing the sector. In this discussion with the sector, transparency of pricing is an important topic. As far as the case of BNP Paribas Fortis is concerned, I have read the decision of the bank to increase the rates of its file fees. The current mortgage credit legislation allows the lender to determine the amount of file fees that it can claim when applying for a mortgage credit, but these fees must be included in the credit application form and included in the prospectus. If the lender wishes to increase its fees for new credit applications, it is completely free to do so. The same applies in the case of early repayment via refinancing, since it is de facto a new credit agreement. In the new law on mortgage credit, the principle of the flexibility of the file fees remains, but it is explicitly provided that the King can determine, by royal decree, the method of fixing the maximum fees of expertise and file for mortgage credits with a real estate destination. Right now, I'm working with the SPF Economy on this royal decree. The DG of the Economic Inspectorate is aware of the file. She confirmed to me the analysis of the file and, if necessary, to take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u52	I thank the Minister for his answer. We want to base ourselves on a law and we want his execution orders to move faster. This law is already not very positive with regard to the changes expected in the framework of the reform of this project, but if, in addition, this little positive thing a bit late to come because the decrees also delay, it becomes a little complicated for the consumer. I very clearly hope that the order will come out very quickly because you see the current abuses and that will continue in the other banks. I hope you will set a maximum price, obviously lower than the price of a new file. It should not be said that there is really a new issue when it comes to early repayment. It is a pure and simple invention of banking institutions. Here, we are talking about 200 euros of fees in addition to 500 euros of a real new case, that is to say a new mortgage where there are many other steps to be taken, including checking the solvency of the person. At the same time, Minister, I also hope that the Economic Inspectorate will call to order, even without this new law, BNP Paribas Bank. Again, when you want liberalized markets – about state banks, I have no problem, you know my position – and when banks do everything they can to make their customers captive by extra fees and procedures, I find that they don't play the game of liberalization. I have a series of bills to break all this. The State must therefore do its utmost to ensure that customers are not held captive by a bank. The market must be played because that is what the market, banking institutions and competition want, even if I do not share all these visions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u53	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux turned her question No 13328 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u54	I feel sorry for my poor colleague Partyka. She has worked so hard for this law, for such a bad result on the ground. I think she could be by my side to question you, minister. I am concerned about the current operation of the charging office set up in the wake of the above-mentioned Chronic Diseases Act, and in particular to facilitate access to balance insurance which remains due to a more affordable price for persons with disabilities or serious illnesses wishing to enter into a mortgage loan. You see that we remain in the mortgage; we don't get out of it! Both the consumer representative and the representative of the francophone patient associations have resigned, resignations apparently refused by the Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. by you. This, of course, has an influence on the very functioning of the monitoring office. In fact, these two representatives, active in spite of themselves, since their resignation is not accepted, are indicated on the minutes of the meetings as being "excused" or "debate". In fact, it is considered that the follow-up office met correctly. In other words, it is an unsophisticated pass-through tower in order to avoid the blocking of the charging monitoring office which, in order to operate legally, must be equal. He's not a partner anymore. Minister, I cannot endorse this masquerade of which you are one of the actors, since you do not accept the resignation of these two representatives. You cannot block indefinitely those resignations which are entirely legitimate and which express the serious doubts of these representatives as to the very functioning of the office. We can also question the legality of decisions taken under these conditions, i.e. by stating that they are both resignations or excused. Minister, are you finally going to accept these resignations and look at the operation of the charging tracking office that does not meet the requirements of the Act today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u55	Mrs Lalieux, I explicitly deny being one of the actors of any masquerade. First of all, I have developed a solution so that patient association representatives can play their part in the fee monitoring office. These two representatives are appointed by royal decree. The last one was a year ago. The current consumer representatives have indeed resigned. If I accepted this resignation without substitutes being appointed, the operation of the follow-up office would be completely blocked. The consequence would be that he would no longer be able to process any files. Persons with disabilities or serious illnesses would be the first victims. My firm is actively looking for a solution. For example, AB-Reoc and all consumer organisations were asked to consider the possibility of submitting further applications. One solution is in sight, but a long-term illness of one of the candidates delays the file. The replacement will be provided as soon as I receive the new applications. Finally, I would point out that the monitoring office is autonomous. It shall present all its draft minutes of meetings to all the appointed current members. According to my information, there were no reservations or objections to these records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u56	Thank you, Minister. To conclude this afternoon's proceedings, I give the floor to Mrs Partyka-Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this bill has already been detricated. If the insurances played the game and complied with the legal prescriptions, we wouldn't be there. If French-speaking consumers and patient associations leave the table, it is because the legislation is not followed and you always give the insurers a reason. I will go back to the questionnaire, because it is not said. I will show you after Toussaint how banking institutions approach outstanding balance insurance with their customers and by which questionnaire they do so. You know very well that if consumer and patient associations leave, it is because the law is not respected, as is the principle of questionnaires. So it's not for the pleasure of stowing, since they were asking. Moreover, they have helped us to draft this law. They still want customers to benefit from balance insurance that remains due in good conditions. Some actors don't play the game. As these three questions on mortgage loans show, Mr.First..., Deputy Prime Minister – because you are not yet Prime Minister! Today, there are only problems, as banking institutions do not comply with the statutory requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic509x.u58	Minister, thank you for your availability. I think you did well to follow my advice, because the issues were dealt with. Either they were directly translated into written questions or they became moot. Good work, Minister!
