ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] On 3 August, he died in Wuustwezel Suzette Verhoeven, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives. She was 71. Suzette Verhoeven was born in Ypres on 17 November 1944. After obtaining the regent diploma of religion, history, French and English, she was a teacher for many years, including at the Annuntia Institute in Wijnegem. In the 1970s she was president of the then CVP-Jongeren, and became a city council member in Merksem. From 1983, after the addition to Antwerp, she was in Merksem district council member, a mandate that she continued to exercise until the end of 2007. From December 1991 to April 1995, Suzette Verhoeven was a member of the CVP in the Senate, and from May 1995 to June 1999 in the Chamber. Its parliamentary activities focus mainly on disarmament, development cooperation, asylum and migration and human rights issues. It is fighting for greater transparency in the field of Belgian arms exports and for the development of a European code of ethics in the field of arms sales. In 1999 it participated in the creation of the Belgian Survival Fund, which was responsible for improving food security in the countries receiving aid from Belgian development cooperation. Furthermore, Suzette Verhoeven fought for the correct implementation of the resolutions of the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995, and put the pressing problem of sham marriages in Belgium on the political agenda. From 2003 to 2007, Ms Verhoeven was general president of the Christian Workers' Women, now Femma. She was also President of the Board of Directors of World Mission Aid and Chairman of the Committee on Justice and Peace of the Diocese of Antwerp. Suzette Verhoeven left local politics at the end of 2007, but this departure was only short-lived, since in May 2008 she returned to the local council of Antwerp, where she replaced Cathy Berx, appointed governor of the province of Antwerp. At the end of 2012, at the end of her term, she made a positive assessment and said she was grateful for this long and beautiful political career. For the committed woman who was Suzette Verhoeven, the end of her political career meant that she could once again pay more attention to her social life. Among other things, she was chairman of the board of directors of the sheltered workshop Werminval in Merksem and a member of the academy council of the elderly movement OKRA. In addition, Suzette Verhoeven was the sweet, caring grandmother of ten grandchildren. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to her family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government, together with Parliament, wishes to pay tribute to Mrs Suzette Verhoeven. Suzette was a special Christian Democrat. With a great deal of sincere warmth for all the people she was dealing with, she has devoted her entire political life to strengthening our society and our development cooperation. She was driven by a great sense of justice. She went against injustice, far away and close to home, by not keeping silent about it, by suing it, by opposing it. She travelled to Kosovo, Iran and China, among others. She was campaigning against landmines and cluster bombs. It called on Belgium to improve transparency in arms supplies and to defend within the EU and the Council of Europe the introduction of a European code of conduct on arms sales. In the field of development cooperation, she helped to form the basis of the Belgian Survival Fund. Suzette Verhoeven was also a champion of women's rights. Although she was always kind, never raised her voice, she was heard. Her plea was heard in education, in politics and in numerous civil society organisations. In addition to politics, she engaged in various associations, including Pax Christi Vlaanderen, the KAV, now Femma, World Mission Aid and the Committee on Justice and Peace of the Diocese of Antwerp. In addition to her political and social commitment, she was a dedicated wife for her husband Wilfried and was the mother of three children and grandmother. In the name of the federal government, I extend my sincere condolences to the family of Suzette, her neighbors and the many she inspired.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the late colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u5	The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] [[:]] On 5 September, Eeklo Alfons Coppieters, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died. He was 92. Fons Coppieters was born in Zele on 16 February 1924. After his education as a social assistant, he became regional secretary of the ACW in Eeklo in 1947. For forty years he would serve the Christian workers' movement of the Meetjesland. Fons Coppieters quickly engaged in local politics. In January 1953 he became a member of the CVP of the Eekloan City Council, which he will continue to hold until December 1988. Fons Coppieters will be very active as a member of Public Works, an office he held from 1957 to 1970. Many of his achievements still mark the urban landscape. Consider, among other things, the first subdivisions, the swimming pool and communal academies, the sports hall, the fire station, the library and the special primary school. Socially engaged as he was, Fons Coppieters, who was chairman of the Meetjeslandse Bouwmaatschappij voor Volkswoningen (Meetjeslandse Bouwmaatschappij voor Volkswoningen), delivered a solid home to no less than 4 000 people at the time. While the Flemish countryside was plagued by a ruthless build-up, Fons Coppieters was also one of the first to be aware of the importance of nature conservation and environmental policy. For example, he prevented villa building in the nature domain Het Leen, and founded the Intermunicipal Association for Domestic Waste Processing Meetjesland, which put an end to the dumping of waste in the open space. In May 1977 he became mayor of his beloved town of Eeklo, a mandate which he carried out with great enthusiasm until December 1988. A month earlier, in April 1977, he became a member of the Chamber for the CVP. During two consecutive legislatures, until October 1985, he will devote himself to matters that have been of great importance to him for several decades, namely, spatial planning, urban planning, mobility, public transport and regional economic development. Fons Coppieters was a conscientious policy-maker with a clear view on the development of his city and his region. His archive as ships, mayor and MP, which he kept meticulously and which now sits at the Leuven KADOC, is a permanent testimony of that. Fons Coppieters will continue to live on in the memory of many as a driven and very socially motivated politician, who was firmly convinced of the importance of civil society. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government, together with Parliament, wishes to pay tribute to Fons Coppieters. Fons died in his very beloved Eeklo at the age of 92. He came to Eeklo in 1947 as secretary of the A.C.W. At the ACW, he's been working on a trade union for 40 years. He was at the cradle of among others the KWB and Holiday Enjoyment. Six years later, in 1953, Coppieters stepped into politics and became a city council member for the then CD&V. In 1957 he became a ship of the city. He was also acting mayor for a time, then finally taking over the mayor's shirt from March 16, 1977 until December 31, 1988. For forty years he was actually the undisputed political patriarch of the city and the region as ships, mayor, representative of the people, A.C.W. Secretary and chairman of intercommunal cooperation. He showed a strong leadership. Fons was a socially motivated politician. Everyone got equal opportunities from him and he built on volunteers, social organisations and civil society. On behalf of the federal government, I extend my deepest condolences to the family of Fons, and to many people in the Eeklo area, for whom he played an important role as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u7	May I also ask you to observe the silence in memory of that late colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u8	By letter dated 21 September 2016, Ms Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye informed me that they would be sitting as an independent member. By letter dated 21 September 2016, Ms Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye informed me that they would sit as independent members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u9	Colleagues, several Members have asked me to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u10	Mr President, I should like to include in the order of business something that has emerged between the deadline for questions and now. What's it about? It has been clear for a few days that our Minister for Energy, Marie-Christine Marghem, has been negligent. It has failed to request millions of euros from the nuclear operators Electrabel and EDF. This week, under the leadership of Mr Delizée, we held a discussion on this subject in the Committee on Business. The Minister made a number of statements there. Information on this has been requested from the energy regulator. At noon we received information from the energy regulator which explicitly contradicts the statements and statements made by the Minister of Economy and which shows that the Minister has been aware of the problems for more than a year. She has known for over a year that she had to do something to collect the millions of euros and to ensure that our citizens and businesses did not miss them. She didn't do that. This can be seen from the preliminary report. What do I want to record now? We only got part of the information. The CREG depends on Parliament. I would ask you, Mr President of the Chamber, to ask for the full information so that we can get back to that quickly with the Prime Minister and with the Minister for Energy. We cannot do that today, because they are both absent, but I think we should do so in no time. It is a pity that the Prime Minister is not here, because the information shows that not only the Minister of Energy was aware, but also the Prime Minister. I would like to appeal to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make quick appointments and to request that report, because I believe that Mrs Marghem, the weak link in this government, has a lot to explain to the People's Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u11	Mrs Fonck, is it on the same point that you want to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak on the same subject. We have received documents from CREG. These documents are overwhelming for the Minister of Energy for two reasons. First of all, because, at the committee on Tuesday, the minister told us that the CREG had not notified her and had not given her the information until last August. Clearly, this is absolutely not the case, since the CREG has written to Minister Marghem on several occasions since October 2015, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Marghem did not provide any of this information, suggesting that the CREG had only warned her at the last minute. Secondly, these documents are overwhelming because the minister today takes the pretext of having to appoint an expert, even though the CREG had already provided him with all the information, all the data on the various parameters. We make a double observation in the face of these overwhelming documents. On the one hand, the minister actually rewritten the story and, on the other hand, it illustrates the incredible connivance between the Minister of Energy, the government and Electrabel-EDF! Mr President, we therefore ask, since the Minister of Energy is not mentioned absent on your statement, that the Committee on the Economy be convened as a matter of urgency so that we can confront the Minister with her remarks and, above all, with the overwhelming documents of the CREG, and that we also, because it is time, be able to make all the transparency. We call for all the documents that have been exchanged between Electrabel, EDF and the government to be put on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u13	Mr President, it is indeed as the other Members point out. Unfortunately, after 11 o'clock this afternoon, we were appalled; if not, there would be a lot of questions about this during this little Question Time and a lot of documentation. I have the two letters here with me. One letter dated 9 October 2015, the other dated 12 December 2015. These are two letters to which the Minister has not referred at all. At the previous committee meeting, it made it appear that it was not informed until June 2016, i.e. six months later, following the CREG report. Mr President, those two letters prove that Mrs Marghem knew the news from October 2015. In October 2015, the CREG wrote to the Minister that she should pay attention, because there are problems in calculating nuclear interest rates. The CREG warns that the parameters should be determined and that better attention should therefore be paid to them. Mr President, the Minister simply ignores those letters and warnings and waits until August 2016.... and not even until June 2016 after the report but until August 2016............................................................................................................................................... It will put an end to the deadline of 15 September 2015 to appoint an expert. According to the CREG, as the other members have pointed out, this was not even necessary. That could have been arranged before. It is therefore obvious that the Minister simply ignores a number of warnings from her own regulator. Mr President, you have always advocated that Parliament should work hard and start earlier than scheduled. We've already had a committee meeting. I would ask you, as well as the chairman of the committee, to convene the committee very quickly and to call the minister to account. After all, in this way it is not only cheating on the government, it is cheating on the citizens, who will again pay more than is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u14	Mr President, I will obviously join my colleagues. I will repeat my remarks, with great weariness and anger. A great weariness because it's been weeks, finally since Mrs Marghem is Minister of Energy, that, repeatedly, we are faced with her omissions, with her lies: we no longer know what to say. And how many times did the Prime Minister not have to come and explain himself for Mrs Marghem, in plenary or in committee? If this did not have a strong impact, both in the field of energy - which is crucial for this country - and for all consumers, SMEs, and for the whole country, it could still go... and again. But, from the first meeting with Mrs Marghem, we were given two and a half hours of explanations which were not, a lack of transparency, since she refused to give us the study of the CREG and the exchanges with Electrabel and EDF. Even the majority said that it could not last and that it demanded another debate. Mr President, I wonder: are we facing a person who is mismanaged and unable to deal with this matter with his firm? Or is it a deliberate desire to give gifts to a monopoly operator in our country? Today we are really asking ourselves the question. There's worse. The CREG now depends on parliament. It is an independent regulator; we have all wanted it; we have strengthened the CREG here. And the minister, Tuesday morning, said she was going to put the CREG out of the game about the Electrabel fee, which is totally unacceptable. Therefore, Mr President, if we cannot bring either the Prime Minister, since he is in New York, or Mrs Marghem, because the questions are not tabled, I, like my colleagues, demand an urgent meeting of a committee. A committee before which Mrs Marghem will present herself with all her small packages, i.e. with all the documents that, either, she will transmit to you immediately and officially (her firm is in close proximity) or, in the committee, so that we can have a real debate. For in doing so, it is the State that loses money. It is the consumer who pays and it is no longer acceptable. We have been in this situation for months thanks to this minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak on the same subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u16	Be brief in this case!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u17	I'll be brief, Mr. President. It is quite shocking, in the head of the parliamentarians, to note that Minister Marghem - I will not use the term "mensage" - manipulates reality and this is not the first time. Moreover, this government, which hunts down the least euro by persecuting the sick or the unemployed, allows itself, in this case, to waste millions of euros. My question is whether this is a mistake, a level of incompetence on the part of Mrs Marghem or whether there is more. Is there not a voluntary act, to the extent that the conflicts of interest identified within Minister Marghem's office, including those from Electrabel, have already been identified and denounced in the PTB? There is reason to ask the question. So I think we need to hear the minister as quickly as possible and get all the documents. Mr President, I ask that these documents be sent to all members of the House and not only to the members of the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u18	Mr President, I would like to go back to Mrs Marghem's pseudo-bad management. It should be pointed out, however, that since she took over this ministry, we are no longer talking about discharge or blackout. This was not the case when the CDH occupied him. Secondly, it must also be reiterated that, during the negotiation for offshore wind, Mrs Marghem managed to reduce the bill by 1.1 billion. It's still important for the taxpayer! These are things that must be said. In connection with the discussion held this Tuesday in committee, the minister has answered all the questions, no matter what the opposition says as usual. But the important thing is that the producers and the minister have agreed to appoint an expert. Let's let him work. There is therefore no urgency to convene a committee meeting. Moreover, its President said that it would be reconvened in due course. That is why the majority believes that there is no reason to convene this committee as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u19	Thank you, Mr. Friart. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you not to address the substance of the matter? We are discussing the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u20	Mr President, you are right to remind Mr Friart that we are no longer in praise. He is already taking stock of Minister Marghem. We are in the order of business. On this point, I must note, and that is the only element I want to add to what has been said, that this is not the first time that we have been in this situation. I refer you to the record of the plenary meeting of 28 May 2015, following an incident of the same type. Today, we are again facing a lie, at least by omission, from Minister Marghem. The Prime Minister spoke here, and I quote: "I also want to tell you the government's commitment to avoid inaccuracies and misunderstandings in the communication. I want all the transparency. Objective and transparency must be guaranteed." If the Prime Minister wants to be consistent with what he told us and the commitments made in May 2015 following the previous serious incident, we must distribute the entire report. Access to all documents, including mail exchanges, is required. Mr President, it seems that the Prime Minister also received the report on 29 June. It was in the documents that CREG sent me this morning. I would like all colleagues to be able to learn about the discussions with the Prime Minister, not just with Minister Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will contact the Minister of Energy as soon as possible to see what is happening with regard to the documents. If necessary, I will make these documents available to all members of the House and not just the members of the Economy Committee. Then I appeal to the chairman of the committee. The rule is that each commission organizes its own work. I know that there is a problem with the celebration of the French Community next Tuesday, but, in my opinion, there is nothing that prevents the committee from meeting on another day of next week. It depends on the chairman of the committee, who can consult with its members to see what can be done. I have every confidence in Mr Delizée, in particular in settling the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u22	Mr President, of course I am available to meet the members of the Committee on the Economy at their request. I think that the issue of documents must be resolved in advance because, if we do not have it, it will not really be useful. I am ready to discuss with you when we can distribute these documents and convene the committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u23	It normally takes place on Tuesdays, but it won't happen next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u24	Mr. Chairman, I am also available on 27. The meeting may take place on Monday or Tuesday. Personally, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u25	All right. We'll do whatever we need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u26	Mr Minister, discrimination in the labour and rental market is and remains a major problem. Last year, a study by the Minority Forum showed that two out of three service cheque companies are involved in a customer demand to refuse people of foreign origin for work. The Social Affairs Committee then held extensive hearings. We have come to a concrete resolution with our fellow Members with recommendations for the government. That resolution was also supported by the opposition by Mr Green and Mr Ecolo, for which I thank them. The resolution states, Minister, that the public sector must take the lead and organise targeted controls. Secondly, you are asked to set up self-regulation systems with the social partners in all sectors, because we do not opt for a witch hunt. Thirdly, it also states that there must be an ultimate weapon, a legal framework for action against hard learners in the context of legal proceedings, if they continue to discriminate. Minister, I hope you understand my position, but I am a little disappointed by the progress in the matter. It was then May 2015, now it's September 2016 and there's a single possible agreement in the service check business sector. That is very thin, because in the other sectors the problem may also exist. Furthermore, in the resolution, we have imposed a deadline for you to come forward with a legal initiative by the end of 2015 to make the famous stick possible behind the door. We note that this legal initiative is not here today. Prime Minister, do you think, first of all, that the resolution, which was widely adopted in Parliament, is being implemented precisely by you and the government? Secondly, with which social sectors and joint committees have you already taken initiatives to at least start discussions on self-regulation? Thirdly, when will you submit the legislative initiative, to which I referred, to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to at least make an effort to listen to the speakers? I can understand that not everything is of interest to you, but keep those talks outside the hemisphere and please respect the speakers and the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u28	Mr van Quickenborne, you do not really need to ask questions about resolutions that have been adopted, sometimes even across the borders of the majority. We always take them very seriously and try to implement them as quickly as possible. This may save you additional questions in the future. We want and will resolutely give it all the opportunities in the resolution. That sometimes requires more patience than we would like to see ourselves. The social partners must be given the necessary time to do so. There have been several contacts between the Cabinet, myself and the social partners of, in particular, the Joint Committee on Service Cheques. Mr President, next Tuesday we will have a very important meeting with these social partners, because the protocol with that joint committee is almost complete. I also hope that we will be able to complete this next Tuesday. I would like to inform you already that five actions are announced in the Protocol to be signed. Firstly, a training fund will be set up for the training and training of employers and workers in the context of action against discrimination. Secondly, a model of business policy, with a code of conduct on non-discrimination, will be offered to all companies in the sector. Thirdly, there is a call for the inclusion of a non-discrimination clause between business and customer. Fourthly, the social partners in the sector are convinced that mystery calls, which we have discussed extensively in committee, can effectively identify discriminatory questions. Finally, there will be a broad information campaign. Hopefully an agreement will be reached on this next Tuesday. I can assure you that if no agreement is reached, we will implement the resolution and take a legislative initiative. However, it is either one or the other: either we give the social partners time, and sometimes it takes a little longer and we have to be patient, or we will take a legislative initiative. First, I want to give all the opportunities to the social partners. I hope that you will be able to endorse that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your enthusiasm. You confirm that you are doing it with the social partners if you can, but without them if you have to. That is what our group has always said. Indeed, we need time to discuss matters, but if they do not get there, it is up to Parliament to take initiatives. We look forward to that. You spoke about the service cheque business sector. Thank you for your efforts, but there are many other sectors where there may also be discrimination, Minister. I am thinking of the construction sector and other sectors. I hope that you will also take the necessary initiatives in relation to these sectors, so that discrimination is stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u30	Mr President, Minister, it is not the first time that we have received bad news from the forensic psychiatric centre. Yesterday the alarm was pulled in Ghent. These are dramatic conditions for both staff and patients. Among other things, I am concerned that psychiatric patients are being put into solitary confinement too quickly. The quality of care therefore leaves something to be desired. In total, there are some 297 full-time equivalents to medical and nursing staff, which means about 1.1 per bed, and that is significantly lower than in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there are eight such centres and they work well. There's one in our country and it's not working properly, it's going wrong. There is the argument that Minister De Block and you are working together to say that the standards are respected. That may be the case, but I do not believe that this is a sign of empathy for the staff and the patients. So it has to be different. I therefore expect more from you and from the government. Either they meet the standards and then they are respected and respected, or they don't, and then they have to be adjusted. It's as simple as bonjour. My question, Minister, is twofold. First of all, do you think that the current staff is sufficient to guarantee the standards of quality of care? Secondly, I ask you not only because of the FPC in Ghent, but also because of the start-up of the forensic psychiatric centre in Antwerp. I am not at all opposed to the privatisation of healthcare institutions, but I am opposed to commercialisation, because this is detrimental to the quality of care. What will you do not to make the same mistakes in Antwerp as in Ghent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, as you know, the provision of care in the FPC is the responsibility of Mr De Block, while I myself am responsible for security, surveillance and hotel function. Your question is about staff standards in healthcare and it is therefore Minister De Block's answer that I would like to inform you. The staffing standard was agreed during the previous legislature and we still support it. In other countries, according to Minister De Block, a similar standard is used for a similar population. We have asked ourselves, according to Minister De Block, at the follow-up committee, about the facts indicted in the media. There it was noted that there is a large historical gap which arose in the treatment of the interned, so that due to the damage to detention there are initially many patients with great therapeutic needs, who together, at the same time, have entered Ghent. This should be a temporary problem which will be closely followed up. That is why we are pleased to note, Mrs De Block, that the FPC has decided to temporarily increase the staff standard in order to take into account the nature of the influx. You asked a question about Antwerp. The works there are very well advanced. But the exploitation itself has yet to be awarded. In this respect, the Ghent experience can now be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u32	Mr Minister, that is a small point of light. You speak on behalf of your colleague, but this is a shared competence. I would also have liked to have heard your views on the matter. What do you think of these standards? I didn't get an answer to that. In any case, your colleague is giving the green light to do something about the abuses. I will continue to question Minister De Block on this matter in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, six months, day to day, after the attacks in Maelbeek and Zaventem, the pain of the victims of these attacks is always immense, always blissful, and nothing can ever repair the loss of a loved one, nothing can ever repair the permanent wounds of the body and the mind. But we can go with the victims. We can support them. We can help them. It is even our responsibility, and it is our duty. And I wanted to talk to you about compensation for the victims. I think today the system is too heavy, too complex, too slow. It is insurance that comes first, and then the government's compensation fund comes second. I think we need to reverse this logic, as in France. That is to say, we must be able to ensure that the victims, instead of being confronted, often alone, with a heavy bureaucracy, difficult negotiations, sometimes over long months, are compensated immediately, soon after the attacks, as the guarantee fund in France does. I think that this is what needs to be put in place in Belgium, Mr Minister, in order to be able, in this area at least, to better support the victims. With regard to compensation, I would like you to tell us what amounts have been paid to the victims to date, how many victims and why. I think it is also important that we know where that is. There were major statements on the funds that were available. I would like to know which ones were actually paid. Finally, you know that the victims are waiting for a national tribute, a tribute from the Nation, so that we can show that we are all affected by these attacks and all in solidarity with their pain. France organized them. I expect, and this is one of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which you received the conclusions of two months ago, that Belgium also organises such a tribute. I would like to hear from the government about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very important social task not only to support victims morally and thus provide them with the necessary guidance, but also financially, for which the Victims' Fund was created. Given the importance of the latter, questions are often asked about the procedure and how victims can be quickly compensated. A year ago, I once questioned you about the fact that persons who appealed to the Victims' Fund received a letter in which they were reminded that, in view of the understaffing with a high workload, they could not immediately respond to their questions, nor would they be able to give an answer within what period. In the meantime, Minister, we in the Committee on Justice have adopted a legislative proposal and amended the procedure. More staff were allocated, on the one hand, which is important if the files are to be dealt with quickly. On the other hand, because there was also a reserve, we doubled the amounts for victims' allowances. In addition, we have built in a procedure to work more quickly when, among other things, terrorist offences are involved. Minister, the new procedure has been in operation for some time now. What is the current state of affairs? Has the fund been able to eliminate the backlog? In what way did that happen? Have you actually paid higher fees? Finally, has the simpler procedure been used for victims' applications of 22 March 2013?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u35	Mevrouw Becq, Mr Dallemagne, the attacks at the national airport and the Maelbeek metro station are unprecedented acts of aggression against individual victims, their families and relatives. But they are also in favour of the Belgian population as a whole. The way we help direct and indirect victims is managed together. The impact of this tragedy is crucial. Any administrative and financial threshold only makes the psychological, individual and collective process unnecessarily more difficult. On the basis of the principle of collective solidarity with the victims and their relatives, the authorities will proactively provide compensation for all those concerned. As for your question on the status of national recognition, the attacks are indeed, an act of aggression against Belgium, by an identified aggressor who has claimed responsibility for his actions. Belgium is a member of a coalition that fights this aggressor and thus we consider it useful that a particular status be assigned, by analogy with the victims of war. This is a specific status adapted to the specific situation. This is a recognition of victims. This does not mean that we recognize the facts as acts of war. The government will provide for this specific status. As far as compensation for the victims is concerned, Mrs Becq, we have therefore adopted a unique point of contact managed by the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims. That unique window is easily accessible on a unique telephone number and a unique address, distributed via the press, number 0471123124 and the address will be printed in the parliamentary documents (terrorvictims@just.fgov.be). Since 22 March, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims has received 257 petitions for financial assistance, 360 telephone calls and 650 e-mails. None-eight decisions have already been taken, all for urgent short-term assistance. Because of the principle of subsidiarity, which first requires the exhaustion of other guarantees, the insurance sector is still engaged in quantifying damage. In addition, €768,000 have already been allocated to the victims of the 22 March attacks. The first payments were made in early July. A great deal of attention is paid to the first contacts with the victims. With the help of social assistants, including the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Affairs, help is provided to the victims and their families. They are proactively contacted on the basis of victim lists. So there's a whole lot of proactivity built in. The reception and the provision of information are essential and prove that a unique point of contact is necessary. As a result of contacts with victims, I understand that this is quite satisfactory. Nothing is perfect, of course; we are doing our utmost. The law of 1 August 1985 was amended. A number of adjustments were published in the Belgian Official Journal on 17 June 2006: the doubling of the ceiling for main aid to EUR 125 000, a doubling of the ceiling for emergency aid to EUR 30 000, an extension of the victims to the family-in-law or those living together in a sustainable family, an extension of the damage compensation, including the legal compensation, to be taken into account, and an extension of the definition of moral damage. In addition, an authorisation was given to the King to ensure that terrorist acts abroad could also be the subject of compensation, following the attacks in Tunisia. There are four KBs for implementation in preparation for that piece. The first concerns the ceilings for intervention in funeral expenses by the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence. For burial and procedure, we pay very fast. Secondly, three royal decrees concern terrorist acts abroad, in which Belgians are victims and can claim compensation from our collective fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u36	Minister, you are right, we have a duty of solidarity, of accompaniment. Belgium as a whole has been affected. As much as I can rejoice at the special status you are announcing and the existence of this fund, I stress - and the figures you are giving me give me reason - that the grant of EUR 760,000 in relation to the number of victims six months after the attacks shows enough that the mechanism is far too slow - to set up another mechanism and to draw inspiration from what is happening abroad. Provision must be made for victims, their loved ones, to prevent them from taking extremely complicated steps themselves and for the federal state to eventually turn to insurance in a second phase. That is what we must do! We must not let these victims deal with insurance and then come in the alternative. We have to do the opposite. I insist, minister, that you take this proposal into account. I did not receive an answer to the national tribute. I believe that the European Union has proposed the date of 11 March for all victims of terrorism at European level. This could possibly be a date for a national tribute so that we can actually show, here too, European solidarity with the victims of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This shows how important it is for society to ensure that victims are properly cared for and supervised, but also to provide a financial answer to their questions. In my view, it is a good thing that we were able to amend the legislation so that the procedure is speeded up and that the victims of the acts of terror could be recognised more quickly. At the same time, I believe that it is still important to follow up on the dossiers before 22 March. In doing so, we can learn from our experience today in order to further refine the regulatory environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, my colleagues have just mentioned everything that concerns compensation to the victims and the tribute to those victims. I believe that one form of tribute is also the measures we are going to implement or are implementing to combat terrorism so that these barbaric acts do not happen again. Six months later, I would like to take stock with you of all the measures that this government has announced. Let us acknowledge that some party messages, especially from the majority, sometimes blur a little, if not a lot, of the eighteen measures you had previously announced. Minister, I would like to know if you can imagine any other measures in addition to the eighteen measures announced. Let us also acknowledge that, of the eighteen measures, if taken one by one, only four are fully implemented. It is therefore regrettable that the implementation of these measures is slow, since only four out of the eighteen measures are fully implemented. We have already deplored him on several occasions, notably following the Charlie Hebdo attacks. Our group deplores this on a regular basis. With regard to Article 12 of the Constitution, we realize that, six months later, we find ourselves in square one, considering that the texts have not necessarily changed much. I would also like to know what is happening to the EUR 400 million. We are aware of the additional €300 million you have allocated for terrorism. We would like to know what about the remaining EUR 100 million and, above all, whether these budgets will be sustainable. We have often said so; it is essential. We can't actually say we're doing a one shot because, 400 million, it barely resets the meters to zero. We have often said so in relation to the huge savings you have made on security. Are these EUR 400 million a sustainable budget, particularly for the strengthening of the security services, namely the police and intelligence services which were badly understaffed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity, on behalf of the government and in consultation with the other competent ministers, to show the results achieved by the government on the 30 measures. In fact, we had decided on 12 measures after the attacks in Verviers and 18 measures after the attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015. I'll go through them quickly. I can mention the widening of terrorist offences, the removal of identity cards, the widening of the offences allowing for wiretapping, night searches, the widening of the possibilities for withdrawal of nationality, the creation of a common database to monitor foreign fighters, and finally, the end of the anonymity of users of prepaid SIM cards. I read too fast to make sure it's more than four, but I think it is. Bills are under discussion in Parliament on the modernization of judicial research and intelligence methods. These are the BIM and BOM projects. A draft law on the collection and processing of PNR data will be transmitted to Parliament in the coming days. Discussions continue in Parliament on extending the period of arrest before being brought before the investigating judge. This is Mr. Ducrame who can inform you. Secondly, I turn to practical and organizational measures. Coordination structures at the government level were reviewed by royal decree. In the National Security Council, we take important decisions. The following measures have been implemented by circular: the exchange of information in the monitoring of foreign fighters and the data bank, the freezing of administrative assets, measures against hate preachers, the removal of passports and the limitation of the possibility of early release for persons sentenced to terrorism sentences. A new entity, called the Internet Reference Unit, has been created within the federal police force to detect and request the removal of content related to violent radicalism and terrorism. I adopted an action plan on the fight against radicalism in prison in March 2015. Implementation is under way. At the end of this month, there will be 20 radicalised in Ittre and 20 in Hasselt in a special wing. With regard to the network of cameras known as ANPR, an additional 250 cameras were installed. The Canal Plan has been adopted and is in the process of being implemented. A new methodology for screening access to sensitive jobs has been approved by the National Security Council. The deployment of the military to secure certain places or events is in place, supervised. Belgium is also actively participating in the coalition against the Islamic State, including in military terms with the commitment of the F-16s. I just want to say that these are more than four measures, Mrs Onkelinx, and I have to prove that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u40	Minister, you're talking too fast!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u41	Yes, for the translators. But all Dutch speakers understand French here, Mrs. Onkelinx. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u42	We have to close!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u43	In conclusion, I wanted to show that the government is delivering on its commitments to protect our citizens. On this sad anniversary of the six months after the 22 March attacks, one cannot shout victory or give the impression that all these results are enough. We must work tirelessly to extend these laws, these circulars through practical and concerted use by the services. There is a need for an evaluation of the results and, if necessary, a reorientation of some strategies. Second, it is clear that these thirty particularly urgent measures focused on the security aspect, but the government is of course promoting a broader approach at the preventive level as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u44	Minister, thank you. I was saying that four out of the eighteen measures are fully implemented! If you want, I'll quote them from you! We didn't have a word on the budget, but you know that since the beginning of this legislature, we are typing on the table saying that we can't do more with less. Mr Jambon tells us this every time in committee. It's not possible to do more with less! You cut budgets, you added an envelope, but it barely reset the meters to zero. You are asked if this envelope will be sustainable, that is what the services expect to function optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I was pleased to hear your conclusion. It is correct that progress has been made on a number of issues, but one cannot rest on one's laurels. In that sense, I fully agree with you. However, I am speaking in response to a particularly painful incident. There has been a short communication here and there, but it makes it painfully clear that we are far from there yet. What's it about? The incident must have occurred about the moment the federal prosecutor in the Chamber came to the Committee of Inquiry to explain the problems caused by what he calls a distressing capacity problem in order to deal with the terrorist cases properly. About the same time, we were informed that the trial against 13 suspected Syrian fighters and recruiters had to be cancelled before the Brussels Correctional Court yesterday. What was going on? The prime suspect was at home under electronic surveillance and they forgot to take out electronic surveillance. In the country of René Magritte, anything is possible, including in security policy. They're calling the prime suspect to the correctional court, but he can't come. The whole thing needs to be cancelled, because he can't come because he's under electronic surveillance. Who's this about? It is about an important figure, someone who was sentenced in 2006 for his active participation in perhaps the bloodiest terrorist attack in Spain, the attack on the Madrid train in 2004, killing 191 citizens. That man was then convicted and served his sentence, but must now stand trial for being seen as a recruiter of people who want to move to Syria and as a person who has received returned Syrian fighters. That's what the man has to answer for, but he's at home with his anklet. Minister, we have already talked about ankle straps. I have three questions about this. Is this cowboy story true or was it made up by some agency? Do you think it is logical that such a person, pending his appearance before the court, should be at home under electronic supervision, with all the risks involved? There is a dispute as to who should have informed who. Can you tell me who had to take the initiative? Who do you think went wrong here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u46	Mr President, Mr Bonte, I will not answer all your questions, some of which were rhetorical, which you expect me to answer. I suppose you wouldn't have hoped that either. You speak of a lack of communication between the services. As a result of your question, I had the services, the federal prosecutor's office and the Prince's prison questioned. As required by the rules, the federal prosecutor informed the Prince's prison on time, where the person in question was registered and thus on the roll, of the day and the hour of the trial hearing. The Vorst prison informed the person concerned by telephone of the day and the hour of the hearing. The person in question and his lawyer knew before the summer when the hearing would take place. This was communicated at the preliminary hearing of the correctional court. So nothing prevented that person from attending the hearing. Should the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision, despite all the above, have detected an alarm for leaving the house, that person could, even with the confirmation of the court, the prosecutor or the prison, immediately submit a valid justification. At your reassurance, I can add that this morning the trial took place in the presence of the defendant. As far as normality is concerned, I do not know the case and will therefore not make a ruling on it. You can't expect that from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u47	Mr Minister, you said that you would not answer all the questions, but the first and most important question was whether it is normal for someone with such a criminal record to be responsible for the reception of returned Syrian fighters, and as a recruiter, to sit at home with an anklet. Is that the security policy on which we must base ourselves? You're not answering that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u48	(...) I don't know the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u49	It's not about the file. It is about someone who was sentenced in 2004 for five years, as I read in the press, for active participation in the acts of terror in Madrid. Now he must be prevented because he is regarded as a central figure in recruitment and also the reception of returned Syrian fighters. My very political question is whether you think that man has the right profile to sit at home with an ankle bracelet pending trial. You're not answering that question. Minister, I also read that the Centre for Electronic Supervision claims that the Brussels court did not ask for anything and that the Brussels court claims that it is a task of the federal court. Put things in order there, Minister. The Brussels court is increasingly being looked at. I quote what the King's Attorney of my arrondissement says about this as a problem court. Maybe that's why we're calling for courts to be set up elsewhere. This case once again casts a shadow over the functioning of our courts, and certainly of the Brussels court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is an essential partner of Belgium, from a historical and socio-economic point of view, but also within the context of the Francophonie. Therefore, it is all the more worrying that we have seen the situation on the spot worsen in recent days, with deadly clashes between law enforcement officials and demonstrators against President Kabila's power. The future seems very dark, if nothing changes. The population as a whole, and Congolese civil society, are concerned. I am also, as I have already been able to say in this House, but also in the Inter-Parliamentary Union, where I chair the Belgian-DRC section. My group most strongly condemns these deadly violence and the fires in the headquarters of the opposition parties. This violence takes place in a heavy context, which has continued to worsen since 19 September last, in the absence of a credible electoral calendar, which is provided for in the Congolese Constitution. This situation, which calls into question the deadlines and the constitutional prescriptions, cannot be a state of fact that Belgium, the European Union and the international community, as well as our Assembly, simply observe on the balcony. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What analysis do you make of the current situation in the DRC from both a security and a political point of view? What feedback do you have from our diplomatic post on this deadly violence, the electoral calendar and the ongoing political negotiations? What bi- or multilateral initiatives does the government intend to take in this heavy context? What consequences or possible sanctions could be taken? What could be the consequences of this situation, depending on its evolution, on our country's 3D strategy vis-à-vis the DRC? Finally, what measures have been taken with regard to our nationals on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u51	Mr President, Minister, three months before the elections in the Congo, the Congolese decided to go down the street, which is absolutely legitimate. They want democratic and transparent elections. In Belgium, the Congolese also went down the street to protest for the same reasons. Today, the events are tragic. There are already about 100 deaths, more than 1,000 injured, 2,500 arrests and all the violence that is generated, i.e. arrests, journalists arrested, in short, unnamed violence. Today, the press reports that the situation has calmed down slightly, but you know very well that calm never comes back when you enter such a crisis. The FPS Foreign Affairs website also mentions the risk of new demonstrations. The streets are deserting, the schools are deserting... people are afraid. Our country must offer unwavering support to Congolese people who want a democratic transition. It is in this sense that we voted in favour of a resolution on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 20 July. As a reminder, this resolution calls on your Government, in particular, to advocate targeted sanctions, such as bans on entry or freezing of bank assets, and "in respect of persons whom it considers responsible for serious human rights violations, violent repression, intimidation and harassment of citizens, the democratic opposition, human rights defenders or journalists and not to hesitate to introduce such sanctions itself". The United States was part of that approach, since the Secretary of State had referred to financial sanctions against the perpetrators. Mr Reynders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said this Monday evening that the individual responsibility of the actors could be committed without any precision. I come to my three questions, one of which has already been asked by my predecessor, namely the protection of Belgian residents in the Congo. What is the state of our diplomatic relations with the government, what measures of pressure, but also sanctions, are recommended by the government at the UN General Assembly that opened this Tuesday?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u52	Minister, the events in Congo are actually being read as a chronicle of the announced death. We have often predicted the current developments in Congo with many colleagues, from the majority and opposition. It is clear that Kabila is not preparing for elections. He prepares for the control of riots and rebellion. He doesn't choose elections either, he chooses postponement, he chooses rotting, he chooses the tactics of the gilding. Ladies and gentlemen, after the events of the past few days, it is clear that, as everyone expected, things are going to explode. After the first elections, where it was important that the Congolese could vote, and the second elections, where it was important that the Congolese could say what he thought for the first time, we now have a third round of elections. They are extremely important, because it can be made clear to the Congolese what transition means, which means democracy in the sense that other people are elected to the administration. What role does our Parliament play? Ladies and gentlemen, you have all supported a resolution which calls on the government to urge the Congolese leaders to do so differently and better. You have all supported this question and the dossier deserves your attention, here too. We have asked Kabila to waive a third mandate. Of course we have infrastructure and financial little to nothing to do with it. However, we do have one thing, Mr Minister, neither Minister Reynders nor Minister De Croo is here, namely our vote. Belgium's symbolic voice is being heard, at European level and at international level. So please use that voice today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u53	Mr President, we are all terribly concerned about the violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in recent days. The Minister for Foreign Affairs not only demonstrated his solidarity with the victims, but also recalled that the right to demonstrate peacefully is the corollary of any democratic process. The events of last Monday and Tuesday are very serious. Now we need an independent investigation of these facts quickly. If there is evidence of disproportionate violence, in particular by security services, the individual responsibility of the persons concerned will have to be assessed, with all the consequences. The European Union will also have to draw conclusions from this. This week's demonstrations and violence follow the non-convocation of presidential elections within the time frame set by the Independent National Electoral Commission. It is necessary that the electoral calendar be known as soon as possible and that the postponement of the presidential and legislative elections be as short as possible. The organization of regular elections is indeed the foundation of any democratic system. The facts recall the extreme urgency of reaching the conclusion of an inclusive, credible political dialogue that respects the constitutional principles as well as UN Security Council Resolution 22/77. Every effort must be made to have a genuine, truly inclusive dialogue involving the main actors of the Congolese crisis. In response to your questions on election financing, Belgium is of course always willing, like other international partners, to support a credible and transparent process with a serious budget. All funding will be conditional on compliance with international standards, including respect for rights and freedoms. Funding arrangements are discussed with our international partners. The DRC is at the centre of many meetings. Belgium is playing a leading role in raising the international community's awareness of the urgency of this situation, and in creating a common approach. For example, the Foreign Minister received this Friday, 19 September, in Brussels, the group of special envoys for the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. At that meeting, he referred to the political situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to the ongoing dialogue. In New York, he participated in other meetings on the subject with the international actors involved. We are also currently discussing within the European Union what the Union can do to address the situation. With regard to the government's attitude to Parliament's Congo resolution, I refer to the Foreign Minister's reply in plenary last week. The resolution remains an important document for the government. She's very up-to-date. He will, of course, come back to the Chamber's resolution and explain how he is implementing it in various areas, as a result of the presentation of the Central African Government's note to Parliament. Given his degree of involvement in this matter, the Minister will wish to inform you personally of the latest developments. As the Foreign Minister said last week, we were not officially notified of the withdrawal of the Congolese Ambassador. His absence may be related to several factors, especially in the current tense domestic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your answers; first of all, I would like to remind you that the desire for democracy and the socio-economic expectations of the Congolese people are legitimate. We cannot accept the intimidation of human rights defenders, nor the disproportionate and violent repression of peaceful movements. Indeed, the solution must come first and foremost from the Congolese living forces, obviously in accordance with the Constitution. However, we have a role to play, Minister, because in this case Belgium's voice counts. We therefore call on Belgian diplomacy to take all appropriate steps to enable an effective process of political dialogue in the DRC, which is as inclusive as possible, as you have stated. This dialogue must lead, as soon as possible, to the organization of the elections provided for in the Constitution. Finally, Mr President, I would like to end by calling, in this context, for parliamentary diplomacy to be also fully effective, and for formal decisions to be taken in this direction by our Assembly, and in particular in terms of monitoring this electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u55	Minister, it is more than time to take action to match the gravity of the situation and the democratic acquis at stake. We must implement all the points of our resolution, together with the other Member States of the United Nations, and support the holding of democratic presidential elections in a country whose political situation is crucial for the entire Great Lakes region. Democracy must be respected, but certainly not at the cost of the sacrifice of many human lives. I keep in mind the image of a Congolese woman I recently saw on television who said: "In the United States, Obama has accomplished his eight years. His term of office has come to an end. He's leaving. Why isn't that the case with us?" I also preserve the image of Dr. Mukwege, who transmits very important messages on the human level. They are people of this kind who can help us fight against what is happening in the Republic of the Congo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u56	Unfortunately, avant les élections, égale après les élections. Today's situation is no different than before the elections. We must learn from that. The United States is prepared to prosecute the culprits in the conflict. President Hollande wants to do so at European level and he is asking for our support. Belgium can only do one thing if it wants to remain credible with the presentation of the note on Central Africa, namely to make it very clear that Kabila's time is up and that it cannot take on a third mandate. All our actions must be linked to that follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of June 2016, just before the summer, nine parent couples received the joyous news that they could finally travel to Uganda, to be reunited with the adoptive child that was assigned to them. For some, this news was an organ point, after almost seven years of preparation. All kinds of screenings had to be carried out by the parents before the child could be assigned to them. However, once arrived in Uganda before the summer, the dossier took quite a dramatic turn. Suddenly, the Ugandan law was amended and a new law was published, stating that the parent couples should stay on Ugandan soil together with the child for at least one year. Of course, this is unexploited work and a rather dramatic situation for the parents, with a lot of extra costs, not only hotel costs and great practical problems. The work in Belgium may have to be terminated; the partner must return and there are tensions with the family in the home country. You understand that it was a most unpleasant and unsatisfying situation. The situation has still not changed for a number of parent couples. They haven't even got a date for their trial yet. In the meantime, a number of appeal procedures have also been introduced and the administrative and legal problem continues to drag on. It is, of course, unacceptable for parents, when they are given the signal that they can be reunited with the adoptive child, to face such unforeseen problems on the spot. We must, of course, respect Uganda's sovereignty. However, it is important that we can use all the administrative, diplomatic and political power to help these people move forward. After all, the situation is very acute and very urgent and should simply be unblocked. My questions to you and to the whole government are the following. What has been done by the Belgian authorities, in particular by our local embassy, for these parents? What will the government do in the near future to unblock the problem? When can parents return to Belgium? When can they finally resume their lives in a normal way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u58	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that six of the children concerned have already arrived in Belgium. There are currently four children still on the ground in Uganda. For the six children who have now received a visa on the basis of a valid Guardianship order, the visa applications were submitted to our embassy partly on 24 and partly on 29 August. They were sent to the Foreign Office on 26 and 30 August and one on 31 August. The positive decision of the DVZ was sent by mail on 3 September and introduced by the DVZ into the Visanet system on 5 September. The visas were issued to the children without delay, so that they could leave for Belgium with the first flights. In short, visa applications were submitted in August and visas were issued at the beginning of September. For the four children who have not yet been authorised by the Ugandan government to leave Uganda, visa applications were submitted on 15 and 19 July and sent to DVZ on 18 and 20 July. The visa applications have so far not been approved by DVZ, as the Guardianship orders have since been cancelled by the competent court. I'm rounding up. The services concerned and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are working on the dossier discreetly. Discretion is an essential ingredient to come to a solution. I can assure you that the embassy services have always accompanied the departing parents and children to the airport to ensure that they could leave the country towards Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know it's about a very delicate file. Some discretion is definitely required. However, it is important to send a signal to the parents that the Belgian Government and the authorities on the ground will continue to work day after day. Only dialogue will lead to a solution. We may therefore hope that the Ugandan Government will also be attentive to the sighs. It is normal that there are transitional measures when legislation changes so drastically. The fact that files already in progress can still be covered by the old system is an important starting point that we can argue together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u60	Minister, new revelations reveal the existence of 175,000 offshore companies in the Bahamas. Excuse me for a minute. You will remember that a few months ago, when the Panama Papers were released, I already told you in the Finance Committee that there would be further scandals. Here's a new one. After Offshore Leaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and Panama Papers, here are the Bahamas Leaks. When is this going to stop? We could ask ourselves the question and we could even start getting tired. That being said, do not count on us to be blasphemed! We can only repeat, Minister, our indignation at this blatant injustice, which is seen by some as a tax evader while the workers pay it. This situation, you will understand, is unbearable. Again, the subsidiary of a Belgian bank assisted by our state is mentioned in this scandal. However, it was with billions of dollars that the banks had to get out of the abyss of the financial crisis in 2008. Therefore, it is equally unacceptable to learn that these same banks, at least some of them, have been able to pursue these practices. Especially as the banking and insurance sector uses hundreds of redundancies, if not thousands. So this adds an extra layer of indecency to injustice. Since I am talking about indecency, Neelie Kroes, former European Commissioner for Competition, seems to have had an offshore operation in the Bahamas. Minister, after Barroso joins Goldman Sachs, we are discovering the interests of a former European Commissioner in a tax haven. It is better understood why the Commission has shown so much inertia in the fight against international tax fraud. Minister, here are a few questions. What is the status of the EU-wide fight against tax havens? How many cases do they involve Belgians? Has the Special Inspectorate of Taxes already received these files and has it already initiated an investigation? Will you strengthen your policy to combat international tax fraud? Would it not be time to act also at the national level by withdrawing their authorization from banks, their subsidiaries and tax intermediaries who pay in this form of financial crime? In short, Minister, what are you doing to finally move forward in the fight against financial crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u61	Mr President, Minister, it is to become depressed. We have had SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers, and here in Parliament the Panama Commission. Since last night, there have been the Bahamas Leaks. It doesn't seem to stop. Once again, it is disappointing that there are Belgians, rich Belgians, who think they should escape taxes and therefore not have to contribute their share to our society, to the welfare of all of us, and who therefore bring their money abroad where they do not have to pay taxes. I remember everyone coming out of the corner when the Panama Papers appeared in the press. I also remember your reaction to that. I believe that within a week you announced that you and the Minister of Justice would set up a Panama Task Force. I haven't heard from you since. That is my first question, Minister. How's that going? We've been six months. Secondly, it is often said on such large international dossiers that they need to be dealt with at European level. What initiatives have you, as Belgian Finance Minister, taken from the Belgian Government at European level to make such matters impossible in the future? That, I understand, is the will of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the list has now passed twice. After LuxLeaks, OffshoreLeaks and Panama Papers there are now the BahamasLeaks. If I forgot one, Mr Calvo, you can add it. It is again a file in which a number of prominent people appear with structures in the hidden. That is what pisses public opinion off, and rightly so. I suspect that no one was surprised, here in Parliament or in public opinion, that we again saw a prominent role for Dexia here. Dexia, the bank run by politicians of the Municipal Holding and of the ACW, Dexia, which was the absolute champion in Panama, with the highest number of constructions, also appears in the BahamasLeaks. That was nothing new. Dexia's current ceo had already given an overview in the Panama Commission. It was clear that after additional leaks a number of Dexiaans would fall out of the closet. It is clear that public opinion does not accept this. Of course, we are not going to accept that either. Measures have already been announced, Minister. You have already announced several, such as a better exchange of information, an extension of the investigation period, access to digital information, which is very important today, and, of course, the provision of a whole range of tax experts to your colleague of justice, so that the court could do its work better. Above all, after the publication of the Panama Papers and the immense list of Belgians with a construction abroad, you announced that they would be subject to priority checks, that you would make priority work on the information from the Panama Papers, that you would make the necessary collections and that you would have the BBI work on them as a priority. Minister, what progress has been made on the implementation of your measures? What are the preliminary results of the BBI's priority work after the Panama Papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it does not make me depressed yet, but the tendency to go a little in that direction is indeed not far away. I would add immediately that what we are seeing now is news about constructions in tax havens. At the moment, as far as the Bahamas Leaks are concerned, I can only base myself on those messages. To get a full picture, more information is needed. You will recall that I immediately urged the Panama Papers to provide the relevant press bodies with more information so that we could move forward more quickly, effectively and in a legally responsible manner. That question was not answered at the time, but I will, of course, ask them now. We will also be waiting this time to see what results this demarche will have, but I can assure you in the meantime that the BBI has already recharged and stored the list which has been published and is waiting, but it is also doing what is necessary and is working with me to obtain more information on what is on that list. We are also currently looking at what we can use in the framework of the Tax Information Exchange Agreement with the Bahamas since 2014 to quickly obtain additional information. As far as the treatment of Panama Papers is concerned, what is the status of Panama Papers? The press articles reported 732 Belgians or foreigners with an address in Belgium. Following a risk analysis conducted by the ISI, 239 files were retained, of which 231 were for natural persons and 8 for legal persons. Requests for information have been sent to interested parties, thereby de facto excluding them from possible tax regularization. These dossiers are now examined one by one in more detail, in the context of which the una via consultation applies. I am really surprised at what has appeared this morning. I have no problem with things being repeated a number of times, but for everyone, I count the three interveners who follow this case for sure there was absolutely nothing new. The fact that there was a Dexiafilière in the Bahamas was widely and long explained by Dexia's current ceo in the Chambers Committee on 7 June. He clearly indicated there on page 16 of his presentation "the nine companies', that those companies were sold in 2010, 2011 and that at the moment there is no more Bahamas-filière for Dexia. Again, I have no problem with things being repeated but speaking of a surprise in this communication, which was, to say the least, strange. In general, the government has not waited for the Panama Papers and certainly not for the BahamasLeaks to do anything about tax avoidance. I'm not talking about fraud yet, I'm talking about tax avoidance. Long before the Panama Papers, we were able to introduce the long-awaited Cayman tax and set an example in the European context of the exchange of rulings. After that, more than 10 measures were taken to further strengthen the fight against tax fraud and large-scale avoidance. I won't repeat them all. It is a question of providing specialist judicial tax officials, extending the time limits for investigations and also the task force where we are now in the last straight line for the composition. At European level, we have been involved constructively in the debate on the fight against tax avoidance, and sufficient reports are available for this. Again, and for the sake of clarity, the manifest and large scale avoidance of loads via constructions cannot be done. That's absolutely impossible. We have taken important steps in this area and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u64	Minister, you need to understand something very simple. When workers, households learn from the press, month after month, new financial scandals where people fraud for billions of euros, while they pay their taxes and suffer all the measures of your government, they are simply fed up! If, very quickly, your government does not show more will in the fight against financial crime, our fellow citizens will be right to tell you that there is double standards in our country, that you are hard on them and that you are weak with big fish. Minister, the ball is on your side!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u65	Minister, I share your surprise at Dexia. At the same time, I would like to share with you my surprise at what I have learned in the meantime from the Panama Papers Committee. I am surprised that, after we have seen all the banks, no bank would have known or cooperated in any way on international escape routes. Nobody knows anything about that. I am surprised that the supervisor, who was heard on the Panama Commission, thinks he has done his job well. I am amazed at this, not only about the fact that people park their money abroad to avoid taxes, but also about the fact that authorities here say that all this can be done, that they know nothing and that everyone washes their hands in innocence. Last week, investigating judge Claise, someone by name, was heard on the Panama Commission. He has said quite clearly there that he finds that the fight against tax fraud is deteriorating under the current government. You list a number of measures. The task force, which you announced six months ago, is still not here. You said it would be fine before the summer, but it still isn't. You announced this in an answer to my parliamentary question. On the other hand, I note that the government is rapidly putting in place a regime of favors for the diamonds, that every effort has been made to regulate tax amnesty for tax fraudsters, that last week the social inspection had to be abolished. The government constantly sends out the message that tax and social fraud are not so bad. So don't be surprised that some people wipe their feet by the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Clearly, times have changed. In the past, Dexia's own bank helped to set up structures to hide money. We're gonna take care of these constructions. That's a big difference. The legal constructions are already being dealt with through the caiman tax. We are therefore asking for a contribution to be made to these legal constructions. Mr Vanvelthoven, we are also tackling the illegal constructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u67	Come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u68	Mr Vanvelthoven, I share your disappointment when it comes to the policy of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u69	You can't call tax amnesty an approach, can you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u70	Mr Dedecker has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u71	Mr Vanvelthoven, allow me to take a look at how that happened in the past. In the regularizations that your government carried out, only the proceeds from the assets were regularized, but the initial black capital that was at the basis of it left you alone. You knew where it was, but you left it alone. That is the difference, Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u72	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u73	Let us also look at the proceeds. In 2016 more fraud money was introduced in half a year than by then Secretary of State Crombez in a whole year. That is the difference, Mr Vanvelthoven. That's the power of change. That is the approach to tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u74	Mr Minister, the last few days have been a lot to do about whether or not to re-introduce the military service. I understand you didn't do your military service. I did do that as KRO at the sixth Linie Storm Fusseliers. I didn't mind that army service. On the contrary, it was a particularly educational period in my life. I am therefore critical of the re-introducing of the military service. I note that the debate being held today is a fundamental debate on standard awareness, duties, responsibility, the culture of character, solidarity in our society and the social integration of different groups in our society, all of which can be achieved when the military service is re-established or derived from it, i.e. some form of civilian service and military service. The President of the European Commission, Juncker, is willingly calling on 100 000 young people to move towards a European solidarity movement, which must also go in this direction. I note that Minister Sven Gatz made statements in the Flemish Government yesterday and today in the press that the reintroduction is a good idea. On the federal level, the government is prepared to reflect on this reintroduction and to engage in the debate. My question to you is therefore obvious. What are the federal government's plans in this respect? Are there indeed intentions to evolve towards a new voluntary or compulsory military service or civil service? You'll be happy to tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u75	Mr Dewinter, first of all, the debate that is taking place today on what is called civic education among young people is a very interesting debate, which is best conducted à fond. A re-establishment of the military service is not in the coalition agreement. It is not part of the coalition agreement and is therefore not in the government's hands. Having said that, on behalf of the Minister of Defence, I would like to point out that today there are three core tasks for defence: collective defence, collective security and the protection of our citizens in the world. This does not include purely educational tasks or achievements in relation to young people. In order to carry out these three core tasks, we need an army that can be deployed, with well-trained professionals and with high-tech equipment for these people. The transformation our army has undergone is well known. In the period of the Cold War it was more about quantity, now rather about quality. The military profession is highly professionalised. One year's service is really no longer enough to teach and apply the complex tasks and techniques specific to the army. What the Minister of Defence does believe in is a motivated and trained reserve that could provide additional troops in crisis situations, such as threat level 3 or disasters. There is already a formula for young people who want to seek refuge in the Defense Department for a short time. On the one hand, these young people can make use of the voluntary military service system. On the other hand, Defence also offers them short career paths, the so-called contracts of limited duration. Finally, they may also join the mentioned reserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u76	Minister, I note that Flemish Minister Gatz may have gone a little too short and spoken for his turn. I note that the federal government, which is ultimately responsible for this, does not seem to have any intention of doing so. So be it. I take note of that. I know the coalition agreement. You don't surprise me with your answer. However, I would point out that the military service in our country has never been abolished. The military service has been suspended and can be re-established at any time, in cases of crisis. I believe it was Louis Tobback, former Minister of the Interior, who once said in the press that if Putin sneeze twice, we could immediately re-introduce the military service. And it is. In view of the above and in view of the international circumstances, which are far from rosy, I hope that this government, in particular the Minister of Defence, will have sufficient plans and scenario plans in place to re-establish, if necessary, the suspended military service and to actively use Miliciens to defend our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u77	Minister, I will not go back to the debate that was held here in June on rice pie. However, I am convinced that we really have to take into account short circuits, local products and regional know-how. I would therefore like to come back with you to the role of AFSCA in this category of products. You know, like me, that I have an agricultural fibre, and that these local products and short circuits are really a diversification for the agricultural sector; I attach great importance to this. There has been, for some time, and even for some time, an opposition between our regional traditions, our local products on the one hand, and our food security and our public health on the other. Today we can talk about rice pie, Herve cheese and some yogurt produced on farms. I am convinced that there must be no opposition between these different sectors, and that there are solutions to be found. The subject is not new, but it is important. You know, like me, that in addition to this problem, the agricultural sector is facing a major crisis. Diversification must therefore be highlighted. Minister, when we addressed these various issues in June, you said that a report should be considered. You asked AFSCA for a report. I therefore wish to know today whether you have had this report, even if I think so. And if so, have you maintained contact with your administration since you had it to determine in what direction to no longer place these short circuits and local products in opposition to food security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u78	Dear Mrs Cassart, this does allow me to take stock in a few words of a case and a situation which, for several months, has taken the form of a difficult dialogue and misunderstanding sometimes, with elements of alleged criticism which are addressed, in particular, to our food security agency. On the one hand, I wanted to be able to clarify things for this very important sector on the whole. Thousands of people live through the transformation, trade and valorization of our agricultural products, our traditional and local artisanal products. This is an extremely important economic reality. It is also part of our traditions, our heritage, the valorisation of agricultural products, as you have pointed out, at a time when the agricultural sector is facing a severe crisis, particularly in view of the fall in the prices of a number of products. The things we have therefore put in place concern both a mediation service at the AFSCA - I allow myself to tell those who would have questions, difficulties, etc. - service available, modern, set up in such a way as to be able to answer any questions from operators or stakeholders. Secondly, we have set up a small producer unit. It was the latter who intervened in this case. It aims to bring together all the representatives of the professional federations of the agricultural sector and the professionals of the AFSCA. We need this dialogue forum. Third, in the various files you mentioned, the AFSCA has shown a willingness to discuss with stakeholders, whether it is Herve cheese, rice pie, or producer or buyer organizations that, together, were faced with issues related to the marketing of products. It is important to reconcile two very important concerns, both food safety and the normal and well-understood precautionary principle, but also the legitimate investment of our processors. This was particularly the case in this study, the conclusions of which are now available and which today closes a question and a polemic which has animated not only our work in committee but also the public opinion for a few weeks now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, the dialogue was difficult, but the answers were quite quick: mediation service, cell for small producers... That is the work that has been done and which enables us, at the moment, to really ensure that food security is protected, but also that local products are available, giving the agricultural sector the opportunity to diversify and create jobs in the Walloon Region and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u80	Mr President, Secretary of State, welcome! There is not a week in this Parliament, and it has been a few months or even years, without a company, employers or workers, alerting us to the phenomenon of social dumping, which costs our entrepreneurs and businesses thousands of jobs. This social dumping is the result of a European directive which has been voted on by most of the groups represented in this Parliament and in the European Parliament and the Greens have consistently opposed it. We believe that equal pay, including social security contributions, is required for equal work. Your first responsibility as Secretary of State is to convince our European Commissioner in charge of this and those of other countries to change the directive. Your second responsibility is to organise on-the-ground monitoring of employers' compliance with the rules on payment of social contributions for posted workers. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, it takes inspectors on the spot to give a clear signal to those who would be tempted to fraud in order to protect workers whose status and situation often limit to slavery and to defend our companies, which play the game and pay their workers properly. What an astonishment, Mr Secretary of State, to hear that you are considering a reform of the Social Inspectorate which, according to the first interested parties and according to the labour judges who have been informed of the situation, will lead to less presence on the spot, less control capacity. I quote from a judge who was taken up yesterday by the RTBF: "The Social Inspectorate is the main strike force in terms of monitoring compliance with social security. Without them, it is almost an invitation to fraud for all employers." These words are clear and strong. Mr Secretary of State, what does he justify considering a reduction in the presence of inspectors on the ground in view of the seriousness of these phenomena? Has this reform been discussed and built with the services concerned? Are you ready to change course and correct this bad project that you are developing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, you seem to be working on the reform of the social inspection services. We support that principle. On the committee, I've been hammering that nail for two years. We have also shared this ambition in the coalition agreement. We need to move towards a modern, efficient and effective social inspection, with fewer structures and management, so that more staff and resources can be made available to go on the ground, to do more effectively against social fraud, a service adapted to today's forms of social fraud and which discourages social fraud. People just don't want to get into it anymore. That's gotta be the point. Apparently, you're already advanced with your plan. I read a number of things in the press here and there. I also hear that the social inspection services say that you will abolish everything and that that is not a good thing. I wonder, then, who says that, which of the eight social inspection services? Anno 2016 there are eight social inspection services, which in itself I do not think is normal anymore. I cannot really believe this criticism, Mr Secretary of State, because it is our common ambition to fight against social fraud. We've been doing that for the past two years. I am therefore free to catalog the criticism of the social inspection services as a mood-making exercise. I'll hear it in your answer. Do you indeed have the ambition to achieve a real reform? When will we hear from them? What will that include? Can you give me a hint of the veil yet? Finally, can we sleep on our two ears? Can we expect a reform on the ground rather than a bit of a streak in the margins?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, since the imposition of this European directive in our countries and the competition of workers, there has been a growing trend on the ground, on construction sites, in companies, of serious problems of social fraud, of workers paid almost 40, 50% less than workers subject to Belgian social law. A Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud would be expected to deal with the fight against social fraud. And what do we learn in the press? It is that, rather than tackling social fraud, you are attacking the organ of the public service that allows you, precisely, to implement this struggle on the ground. We no longer understand, Secretary of State. We expected, from a Secretary of State, that you would encourage the teams, work with them, communicate, see how the operation can be improved. And what do we hear? "No, we're going to dilute, we don't know where we're going," and a lack of dialogue with these services. Yet, as you know, it is necessary. More recently, we have seen some construction sites, including public construction sites, such as Rive Gauche in Charleroi, where workers of Albanian or Egyptian origin are almost no longer paid. We must put an end to this competition, which is not only unbearable for workers from these countries, but also puts pressure on wages in Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, my question is very clear. Following a concern expressed by the first concerned, those who work on the ground and carry out these inspections - it is not just anyone - and following concerns expressed by the magistrates, who are still busy in this sector, can you explain to us? You said in the press that you were misunderstood – which is often the case with the ministers of this government. They announce plans, and then they say they're misunderstood. I'm going to ask you some very simple questions, Secretary of State. Firstly, can you guarantee that there will remain at least 300 workers at the Social Inspectorate and that there is no government's will to apply any linear austerity to this sector? Secondly, since no one really understood where you wanted to go, whether you want to gather or not, concentrate or not, can you explain to Parliament today the very essence of your plan, so that we can be sure that you do not want to dilute the Social Inspectorate in other social security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, in recent days we have been reading rather contradictory reports in the media about the planned reform of the social inspection services. A newspaper even copied that you'd like to shut down the social inspection. I am not the only one who was shocked when I read that, hence the numerous questions in Parliament today. There was surprise everywhere, because you and your predecessor have just made the fight against social fraud and social dumping a spearhead in this government. Mr Gilkinet, Mr Hedebouw, the coalition agreement is very clear on this: "The social inspection services will be adequately supported and, if necessary, strengthened." Furthermore, I read: "Coordination between the various inspection services should be continued and strengthened, where appropriate through the integration of the various services." It is therefore a question of strengthening and integrating. There's no question of shutting it down at all. This ambition has been further explained by our Secretary of State in committee, just as the government explained in its policy statement. It was not only words; it was already acted upon. In the meantime, the social inspection services were reinforced by 96 inspectors. That's not a bad thing. So, 10 %, extra inspectors have come. That's not a headline today, but it's a fact. Mr Secretary of State, can you clarify and confirm that it is not at all the intention to cancel the social inspection, quite the contrary? Can you also explain how far your plans to reform and strengthen the social inspection services are going, so that wrong media coverage is destroyed? You may also be able to explain how the procedure is being implemented. Does this happen in consultation with the social inspection services themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, everyone knows that one of the government's priorities is the fight against social fraud and all fraud in general, but also against social dumping. We know that this is a real problem for our economy. I would recall that we lost more than 13,000 jobs in 2013–14 and that a loss of 16,000 jobs is projected in sectors such as construction and transportation. I would like to highlight the many actions that have been taken by our government, which has spared no effort to combat fraud. I can recall various projects from your predecessor, such as the eighty-measure action plan, but also Minister Borsus's plan on fair competition, the law on public procurement that was passed on 26 May, the announcement by Mr Peeters this week of a new bill in the transport sector and the commitment of non-ante-six inspectors. All these measures show that the government has spared no effort. When we read the newspapers and the fear of the staff caused by this rumor of dismantling, I would like you to enlighten us. You have denied this information, but you should reassure Parliament and this staff. I believe that this service can be reorganized, but that it also has some expertise and knowledge of field work. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I thank you in advance for answering our questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement makes it quite clear that the fight against social fraud is a priority. However, it also states that integration is necessary from different services where there is overlap. This is necessary because today the eight different services work too much in parallel. There's too much fragmentation. For me, the main question is that. How can we ideally draw on the expertise of the various inspection services in the fight against social fraud and social dumping? That is why, in May, we launched a journey and a task force, together with the relevant ministers, to reform the inspection services. We have deliberately expanded our thinking into four different chapters: governance and strategic objectives for the fight against social fraud, the role of SIRS, the standardization of processes and the new structure. An agreement was reached within the Task Force on the first three chapters. This is not yet the case for the fourth. Today we are in the final phase. We are almost there, but not quite yet, to shape this reform. I can tell you that we have three clear priorities in the reform: the fight against social dumping, the fight against bogus self-employment and the fight against benefit fraud. Four main areas will also be covered: employment, social security, self-employed workers and benefits. With a central control system, which is also reinforced from the SIOD with a full-time manager, being an additional person who has to steer and give inspection services a clear strategic direction, we are definitely taking a step forward. So the reports that the whole fight against social exclusion will be eliminated are not correct. On the contrary, the reform we are doing is giving more power and strength to inspections in the fight against social dumping and social fraud. This whole reform, which we are doing now, will ensure greater efficiency in the field, more checks on the ground and more budgetary space, in order to continue to carry out those checks and actions on the ground. I understand the staff uncertainty, reforms always create uncertainty. However, they do not have to be afraid, as some Members have said here. No jobs will be lost. On the contrary, we recruit almost 100 inspectors to strengthen the inspection service. That means more than 10 % capacity added. I have faith in the staff. I have confidence in the expertise that the staff has built up and is recognised abroad. If one wants change, one must also want to change. It is not because we are now operating in a good way in our various inspection services, that we should not take the step, in order to achieve even greater efficiency. Once our reform is completed, all social inspection services will have even more power and will be able to move even faster in the fight against social dumping, including cross-border dumping. The current government proves in the field that we have made the fight against social fraud and social dumping a real priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u86	Secretary of State, I hear your slogans and your strong words. I also mean those who are on the ground, who are responsible for implementing this essential objective of the fight against social dumping, and who are not following you. Between your comments, the knowledge of the government, and the field expertise, I tend to trust the field expertise. I am interested in reforms when they improve the system. All the social reforms carried out by this government are aggravating the situation. You say you want to defend social security, and you dismember it. You say you want to fight child poverty, and you deprive parents of allowances, you send them back to CPAS. What is the situation here? Mr President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr Van Quickenborne, I ask you here to organise very quickly, since Parliament has returned, hearings with the Secretary of State and with the workers who complain today. The fight against social dumping, Mr Borsus, as I say, is a priority. You have created the situation that today causes us to lose thousands of jobs by accepting these European directives. It is necessary to correct what can be corrected, to correct these guidelines, and to ensure that the field inspection is more effective. That's the opposite of what you're organizing. Change your policy, Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to make it clear, as you have said, that the people in the field, in the social inspection services, are doing a very good job. But anything can be better. We can get even more out of those good people if they work in a structure adapted to this time. I understand your trial is on going, you're almost there. I understand that working well takes time. Not too much time, though. I believe that at some point we will have to land with a decent result. I believe that we must achieve a trend break here and distinguish ourselves from the social fraud policy of recent decades. I do not know all the details of your story, we will make the evaluation at a later date. I certainly do not want to say that your plan would not go far enough in my view. I would also ask the other stakeholders not to shoot off the preparatory work you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u88	Mr Secretary of State, the workers in Belgium, whether they work in construction, cleaning or in a company, are tired of constantly being exposed to competition with workers and servants from other countries who work here for 40% to 50% below the price. You must take action against this. What you are proposing does not offer any perspective in this respect. I refer to the statistics of the social inspection. In the construction sector, 41 % was positive, in cleaning 46 %. This is about work being done today. You should bring the expertise together to bring the employers who make use of that form of employment to justice. The social inspection does not simply carry out checks to recover money for social security, but also specifically to bring those employers to justice. The inspectors with that expertise want you to transfer to other services. Mr Secretary of State, I believe that priority should be given to combating social dumping. People are now being set up against each other in Europe. It can't go on like this. So I am not at all reassured by the measures you are proposing today. I really think that in the coming months and years the fight against social dumping should be a priority for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, I found your answer quite clear and not interpretable, others apparently do. It is precisely this government's intention to make inspections more butchery and more efficient, and this reform serves this purpose. Social inspection services are too fragmented today. You have the full support of Parliament. You have emphasised once again that our group too is strongly in favour of the fact that the fight against large-scale social fraud and social dumping remains an absolute priority and that this fight is being stepped up under your control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. The MR will obviously support you. However, we will remain attentive to developments, because we must not lose sight of what the government has already achieved and we remain very sensitive to the situation on the ground and to the quality of the work of the social inspectors. We would like to draw attention to the importance of our businesses and to our workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u91	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u92	By letter dated 21 September 2016, the Commission asked: of the Assembly of the French Community Commission We are aware that it was declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 21 September 2016, the Assemblée de la Commission communautaire française (Assembly of the French Community Commission) announced that it had formed itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u93	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 29 September 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 29 September 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. End of business. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The meeting is adjourned. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u94	One last word, Mr. Delizée. I apologize because I didn't see you asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u95	Mr President, you closed the meeting very quickly. I just wanted to tell colleagues that the Committee on the Economy will meet on Tuesday afternoon next week at 2.15 p.m. on 27 September. I invite the speakers to share with you and myself the list of requested documents so that we can have a complete list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u96	Mr. Delizée, have you contacted the minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u97	Yes. It is available at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-22-54-plenair-ip126x.u98	She would therefore be present and agreed to participate in that meeting. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
