ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u1	Colleagues, in this small, beautiful room we will start the sitting with a number of oral questions on the agenda this morning to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs. The Minister informs us that he has until noon, not until 12:30. We will repeat that message later, so that nobody has to wait unnecessarily long in the Chamber and then not be able to ask a question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 9127 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u2	Minister, after the anti-terrorist action in Verviers in January 2015, a first budget was made available for the fight against terror. It was about 200 million euros at the time. This budget was intended to enable the implementation of 12 additional measures taken by the government to tackle terrorism and radicalisation. A year later, the fight against terrorism is just as topical and further efforts are being made to reduce terrorism and radicalisation. Some of the questions I submitted have already been dated. So I won't put it anymore. Part of the 200 million euros went to the Home Office to carry out a number of cases. What is the state of play in this? How much of that budget has been spent on operating equipment? How much of that budget was used for investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u3	Mr Demon, I gave you some answers a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u4	Yeah, that's why I dropped those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u5	In the context of the specific budgets, 173 staff have already been appointed by means of mobility, 65 of whom came externally, from the local police. The others came from other federal police services. For 17 relations, recruitment is still ongoing. The staff were deployed in the management of the special units, the border control of the Brussels National Airport and the various anti-terrorist services of the federal judicial police, mainly in Brussels. EUR 1.8 million was spent on operating resources. Investment was also made. A lot of material has also been announced, but the question is whether it is placed under investment credit or working credit. For example, the armament of the special forces has been updated and expanded. Also in the context of the terrorist investigation, the special forces detection of communication equipment came with the famous Bella, a beautiful vehicle with enormous possibilities. So all this has happened, but it is now a question of whether they are covered by operating appropriations or investment appropriations. At least they're materials purchases. The operating resources are therefore EUR 1.8 million and the materials I have just listed are financed. We started spending the 200 million late, because part of the political decision meant that the old invoices from court experts and others that were still open to the Justice Department would be paid first. The Institute for National Accounts has had to assess for a long time whether we could still take that off the record in previous years. If we could, we would. If it couldn't be done, that would be deducted from the 200 million. If I am not mistaken, we have been able to deduct 100 million from the previous years and 40 million from the 200 million. This involved medical costs and other costs on long outstanding invoices which have now been eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u6	Minister, one of your key issues in the key tasks debate is the development of e-police, a modernised and uniform computer system for the police. In order to develop this system, existing programmes would be called upon, inter alia, by the London police. These programmes would be purchased after which they would be adapted so that the police in our country could apply them. What is the status of this project now? Has a cutlery been made yet? What is the total cost of this and when can programming start? Will each zone be required to enter this system? Does every user need an account? What is the cost per user? What is the cost of the zones? What resources will the federal government provide to complete this project over the next five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u7	Mr President, Mr Demon, first of all it is important to mention that there are now more and more market-based solutions than those used by the London police. This system has been in place for some time now and you know how fast IT is evolving. The federal police will therefore monitor the regular legislation on public procurement and see which providers can meet the functional requirements of a modern police information system. In concrete terms, this means that the police have carried out a market survey and benchmarking with other police forces and have the necessary information to draw up a specifications. On the basis of the e-policy business case, the government has given the green light to start writing out a handbook and has allocated the necessary funds in the budget of 400 million. In the past, for market prospecting, there has already been an order size of EUR 95 million spread over five years. I can confirm that we are thinking of such an order size, but in the interests of proper execution of the public contract I do not wish to go into this further for the time being. Realistically, we have to assume that 2016 will serve for the award and award of the contract and that from 2017 to 2021 the project can be carried out. The first results in the field will already be noticeable in 2018. Each zone will be required to enter the system. After all, we work with an integrated police force. It is therefore important that the modernisation of police forces and the processing of information is an integrated story. That is why it is necessary for every police department, both at federal and local level, to join the story. Each user indeed needs an account, not least for reasons of security. It is important, in accordance with the legislation, to be able to check who provided or consulted certain information and when. The cost per user will depend on several factors such as the final cost of the solution offered, the number of users, the specific modules and so on. With all these variables, it is therefore still too early to make the calculation. What will be the cost of the zones? Here too, it is difficult to anticipate. The zones have long been investing in computer infrastructure, local network and own computers. That will remain the case. However, I can promise you that the aim is to connect the federally funded solution to the various local computer infrastructures at no additional cost. What is being developed federally will thus be able to be installed on the local infrastructure. The local areas won't have to pay for that. The best solution will be sought in the public contract, taking into account both the efficiency requirements for good and rapid operation and compatibility with existing local infrastructures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u8	Minister, if I understand correctly, this system will take some time to enter into force. I would like to talk about a detail that is being pointed out to me, but which may still be important. It's reported to be ordinary police.be address, so the cops' address, free of charge. Now, however, it should be paid for, according to the storage capacity. That could be an extra cost. Can you confirm or deny that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u9	I'm afraid you're confusing two things. For e-police, we are now making a notebook. On the other hand, all police zones use a number of Microsoft tools. That didn't all happen according to the licensing system, but it was used. A global contract has been concluded with Microsoft through the chancery to use all of those things as a rule. The zones will have to pay for that. In the development of e-police, we will make these systems available free of charge. So that has nothing to do with those things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 9521 question has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u11	Mr Minister, at the end of 2014, the P Committee published a monitoring study on direct debits, in which it explains the police practice of home checks and makes a series of recommendations, such as the need to adjust the eight working day deadline, standardise work processes between population services and police services, and develop more knowledge among district agents. Mr. Secretary, did you take note of that report? What action points will there be in this regard? Which databases can police people consult in the context of home control? Can police officers demand access to the house to carry out their checks? Can they demand a tour of the house? Are you planning to create a new directive for the police and public services in the area of home control? Can police officers record in a separate database the information they receive from the residence control of residents, such as telephone number, and other attendees? How many fraud findings have police services made from 2011 to 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u12	Mr Demon, first of all, at the end of 2014, I took note of the Committee P's report on residence controls or home controls. As a result of its publication, both my administration and the local police were sensitized to the recommendations of the P Committee, in order to improve the provision of services and contact with the population. As a reminder, the P Committee's report also underlined the satisfaction of the municipal authorities and the public with the work of the district agents. The fight against social fraud is one of the priorities of the Government Agreement of 9 October 2014. The various departments concerned therefore pay particular attention to it. Moreover, the new 2016-2019 security plan highlights the fight against identity fraud and residence fraud as an important cross-cutting issue. The local police play an important role in the detection and control of suspected cases of residence fraud due to the checks it carries out for the municipal administration. In the context of the key tasks debate, it is desirable that the verification of residence should remain a legal, administrative and mandatory task of the local police, in accordance with the circular of 1 December 2006 with directives requiring and simplifying some of the administrative tasks of the local police. Secondly, I report that the district agents are registering the data in ISLP. They may consult the data of the general national database of the integrated police or the data of the National Register. They shall also have access to international signals. In addition, they may use any other information they would be aware of. Thirdly, in the context of a residence check, which is a task of the administrative police, the access to and visit to the place of residence should not be enforced. This is a violation of privacy. However, on the basis of Article 3 of the Law of 19 July 1991 on population registers, identity cards, alien cards and residence documents, and of Article 7 to 10 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on population registers, a citizen must cooperate with the local police in determining the effective main residence. In the event of refusal, with other elements collected, a report may be drawn up in accordance with Article 7 of the Act referred to above. Fourthly, as I mentioned in my answer to Parliament's question No. 99 by Mrs Gabriels, it is not my intention to issue new directives in this area. The legal and regulatory texts in force provide a sufficient framework for the checks on residence, for which there is, moreover, good cooperation between the local police, the municipal authorities and my administration. For example, in the context of the fight against residence fraud, the letter of 30 August 2013 already contains many points of interest and best practices for the municipal authorities and local police on how to conduct the housing investigation. In addition, a training in Housing Control is permanently included in the basic training for district police of the provincial police schools. My population inspectors also provide this training on request in the various police zones. Fifthly, Articles 44.1 and 44.2 of the Police Office Act clearly state that police services may collect and process information and personal data for the purpose of carrying out their duties of administrative and judicial police, provided that the law on privacy is complied with. The data and information collected during those assignments may, if necessary, be recorded in structured databases. Sixthly, on the basis of the minutes recorded in the ANG at national level for the years 2011 to 2014 and the first semester of 2015, I can give you the following figures on the facts of the population register: for 2011 we note 31 429 for 2012 there are 32 581, for 2013 there are 34 770, for 2014 we write 34 175 and for the first semester of 2015 there are 15 206. It is important to reiterate that the breaches of the population register do not necessarily lead to an investigation into residence fraud. They can be the result of, for example, an administrative error and can be corrected. So they do not all give rise to inquiries into residential fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u13	Minister, it was a clear answer. The only thing I find a little strange, but that can be because I didn't understand it for 100 %, is this. You say that home control cannot be enforced and that you are in favour of it, that you will not change that rule, inter alia because you respect the privacy protection rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u14	Yes, it is possible to draw up a report at that time, and then it is possible to consider whether action should be taken, but I do not think it is advisable to allow a district agent to take action at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u15	Joined Questions Nos 9628 and 9891 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and No 10043 by Mrs Els Van Hoof are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u16	Mr President, the Tihange 1 reactor was shut down as a matter of urgency on 23 February, following a new incident which seems to have occurred in the nuclear part of the plant, at the heart of the reactor. Minister, can you say more? What is the origin, location and extent of the problem? What are the consequences of this incident? At what level has it been classified on the INES scale? Why did the first official information issued by Electrabel refer to a "test", when it was an incident? What follow-up will you give to all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u17	Dear colleague, on 23 February, the Tihange 1 reactor was put to a preventive stop by Electrabel, due to a potential problem in the volumetric and chemical control pumps of the reactor's primary circuit. These were also used as safety injection pumps. Tihange 1 has three of these pumps in parallel, in order to perform this function. However, only one of these three pumps is sufficient to do so. A second shall be operational as a redundancy component in the event of failure of the first pump. The third is a reserve component. As a rule, Electrabel must have two operational pumps for the volumetric and chemical control of the reactor's primary circuit. The rotor of one of these three pumps broke, causing the pump to stop. The function was thus normally taken over by the other two pumps in accordance with the procedures. This event is a potential safety issue until the operator has been able to demonstrate that the other two pumps are not likely to be damaged in the same way. This is to verify that there is no common failure mode between these three pumps that could lead to rotor failure. In order to diagnose the origin of the breakage, Electrabel dismantled the damaged rotor. On 23 February, the initial analyses could not demonstrate that the problem causing the rotor rupture could not occur on the two pumps required for nuclear safety. Electrabel has therefore decided, as a precautionary measure, to shut down the reactor until it is shown that there is no safety problem related to these elements in the other pumps. The INES test criteria conclude that an analysis is not necessary for the degradation of a pump, as a spare pump is available. On the other hand, an analysis would be timely if it were confirmed that the degraded pump problem is generic and could impact the other two pumps. The event is therefore not strictly an incident as defined in the INES manual but a preventive shutdown which will allow, among other things, tests to be carried out on the other two pumps in order to verify their integrity. This difference may explain the initial communication made by Electrabel. The AFCN will, of course, closely monitor the repair of the damaged pump and the progress of the tests conducted on the two intact pumps. In the past, I have provided you with the number of INES incidents in recent years, always pointing out that these data cannot be used for statistics and that they do not give any indication of safety. AFCN inspections consider many other data in addition to the number of incidents. In any case, the number of incidents classified on the INES scale is similar to that of previous years. There is even a sharp decrease for the Doel power plant. As the year 2016 has barely begun, it is difficult to predict a response at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u18	Minister, what is fantastic with you, but especially with the Federal Agency, is that there is always an excuse. Here, on the minimization of communication. You say we did a test and then we realized it was an incident. On the other hand, you say that the number of INES incidents is similar and that, better, at Doel there is less. For sure, with the closures in Doel 1 since February, we understand why there are fewer incidents if we look at the year 2015. You say that, for 2016, it's a little early to take stock of the year. I agree with you on this part, but at no time do you deny that this is a pump located in the nuclear part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u19	I said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u20	So much for me. It is therefore good in the nuclear part, since in the event of an incident it is necessary to intervene very quickly with borate water in order to lower the nuclear pressure. As you know, we'll continue to track these kinds of incidents. I note that this Thiange 1 power plant, which is one of those that governments are prolonging - since the previous one has also done so - is aging. It is inevitably more and more subject to difficulties in the nuclear part, even though this time, and fortunately we all rejoice, there has been no unfortunate follow-up, except for the break of a few weeks that has taken place in order to check the other pumps. Of course, I will follow this file like all the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u21	Mr President, I must add something important. My first sentence was: "The Tihange reactor was pre-emptively shut down by Electrabel due to a potential problem on the volumetric and chemical control pumps of the primary reactor circuit".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u22	You say "primary" for the nuclear part. In any case, we agree on this point. This is therefore a potential problem each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u23	Minister, you know that I am in favour of the development of an armed administration, as I call it, in which we, as local administrators, try to combat all kinds of phenomena of insecurity and crime. As mayor of Maasmechelen, you know that I am facing a lot of problems, including drugs and cannabis plantations. The problem also includes the motorcycle gangs, because, as you know, three motor gangs have been established in Maasmechelen. This shows how well Maasmechelen logistics is accessible, which is one of the added value of the municipality, but such initiatives are of course also the Achilles heel of the municipality. I asked you a question about this in plenary on 19 November 2014, and I was very pleased with your answer. At that time, you promised that you would also find it useful to work with regional information and expertise centres, in accordance with the Dutch idea and example. The purpose of these centres is to filter, transmit and deliver police-judicial information to the municipal authorities who want to participate in the armed approach, the armed administration of these crime phenomena. Mr. Secretary, today I would like to ask you a follow-up question. What is the state of play of the possible creation of regional information and expertise centres, such as the RIES in the Netherlands? When is there any possibility of operationalisation? What is the status of Bibob legislation, which means that the board can verify the integrity of applicants before certain permits are issued or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u24	Mr Terwingen, I have already told you that a team of experts led by Professor De Ruyver has carried out an assignment, and we were able to receive the results in a basic document at the beginning of this year. We then held a first meeting with the advisory committee in February. Operational support and investigation of legislation is one of the tasks of that guidance committee. There is a need for regulation in order to be able to act. The existing rules need to be more explicit. It is not intended to copy Bibob legislation from the Netherlands. We need to take the test with the regulation that is now on the table in Belgium. For example, we can make minor legal changes to outdated drinking legislation and gambling legislation. We should not invent new things if legislation already exists, which should be better applied. In recent years some new articles have been added to the new municipal law. The VVSG indicates that it is sometimes difficult for local authorities to know which article to use. For example, there is a lot that can be done under Article 135 of the new municipal law, but sometimes the wrong article is used. Therefore, before creating new legislation, it is necessary to optimise existing legislation. That is why we have chosen to bring the right actors around the table and to share best practices that should allow us to develop this further during the second monitoring committee. As far as operational support is concerned, I have already replied to a previous question that a pilot project will be set up in the province of Antwerp and Limburg in the near future, replacing an organisational model to support the administrative authorities. At that time, I deliberately did not mention a time limit, as this depends on several factors, including the willingness of other actors. This administrative approach is a new form of cooperation, a new culture that will have to be created. The guidance committee is a first step. A second meeting is scheduled for the end of March. During the first guidance committee several slopes are provided. These must now be considered in terms of feasibility and effective added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u25	Therefore, Minister, you will not blame me if I return to you after the Easter holiday to see what the guidance committee has decided. I certainly know that there are plans to do something in Antwerp, or Limburg, or perhaps even both together. It may be a blow to the bow, but I would strongly argue for a split-up. I believe that there is room for two pilot projects. I understand that there is one centre for both provinces. I believe that this will be too much information that will also be difficult to grasp. If there is to be a pilot RIEC, I would like to see a split for both provinces so that both can exchange information and experience. I hope that both pilot RIECs will get there as soon as possible. However, I understand, Minister, that you need some time so that it can go the right way. In a few months we might be able to test with two RIECS, one in Antwerp and one in Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u26	Mrs Claerhout is not here. Nor did she ask for her question to be postponed or converted into a written question. Pursuant to Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure, question No. Mrs Claerhout considered that 9662 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u27	Minister, on 23 February you announced that border controls would be organised with France to intercept and send back any refugees from Calais and Dunkirk. Let me make it clear that I fully agree with those controls, because they are necessary. Its organisation threatens to be at the expense of local police areas that are sometimes more than 100 kilometres from the border. Due to the long movement times, a lot of overtime is likely to accumulate in the long term. I can give you an example from the police area of Grapes. Policemen have to get there at 4:30 a.m. to the Commissariat, change their clothes there, then go to Asse and sit in a bus from there for an hour and a half to the border, specifically: to Veurne. There they have to patrol for 12 hours and then return along the same road. That's five to six hours before those cops are home. Six hours on and off are quite pointless for those who live far away. Those hours are not carried out in the zone, which means that those who remain in the zone must take over duties from those policemen. This creates a snowball effect, which puts local areas at risk of being unable to carry out a number of tasks. I agree with respect for the principle of solidarity, but some pragmatism is also on the agenda. Last week, by the way, the union filed a strike notice for that reason. Minister, my first question is about efficiency. Couldn't more policemen be brought up from closer to the border? I think of Hainaut, West and East Flanders. Secondly, can the priorities of the federal police not be reviewed and shifted so that they can contribute more to border controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u28	Minister, the European Commission considers that Belgium does not respect the Schengen agreements by carrying out checks at the border with France. This was evidently in a letter from the European Commissioner for Migration Dimitris Avramopoulos to Prime Minister Michel and to you as Minister for the Interior. According to the Commission, border controls may last up to 10 days. According to Minister Reynders, the period can be renewed. The chairman of your coalition partner in the government, Mrs Rutten, also expressed doubts about border controls. She stated in the media that Belgium is a very small country, with an open economy. In her view, therefore, it is of the utmost benefit to us that the borders remain open. Open Vld would therefore have preferred targeted controls. Can you confirm that you received that letter? In the meantime, have you responded to the letter? Can you also confirm that border controls can be extended after 10 days? Which body may decide on the extension? On the basis of which criteria will it be decided whether the checks can be renewed? How many agents are being deployed at the border at the moment? Can you confirm that some of the agents deployed at the border are or were employed in the Molenbeek and Anderlecht zones? Finally, was the possibility of targeted controls discussed in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u29	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to recall the decision taken by the French Government on 23 February to dismantle at least half of the Camp de Calais, a decision which is perfectly autonomous and sovereign, but which comes very late. Moreover, along our border with France there are about 7,000 people. They are not, in principle, people fleeing war and death. These are illegals who try to join a Member State of the European Union, certainly outside Schengen, but still a Member State of the European Union. We are not busy witnessing a situation of the kind we encounter on the border side of Eastern Europe. On the contrary, we are faced with people who take on a precarious life in extreme situations, but who have made the choice not to apply for asylum. In doing so, we cannot guarantee that they will not settle at home if they fail to cross La Manche and go to Britain where, necessarily, they do not meet the conditions for being welcomed. We are turning around and this situation seems to me to be extremely difficult to deal with, from the Belgian point of view in any case. In view of this management, I would like to know when the Belgian Government was informed by the French Government of the decision to dismantle. In what form and on what date did the Belgian Government inform the European Commission and the French Government of its decision to strengthen the police force in the perimeter? What criteria have been used to determine the choice of this reinforcement? What is precisely the additional police force that has been decided to support the local areas there? Where's the backup coming from? Do you confirm the number of 600 arrests in the first week of strengthening controls? What specific tasks have been entrusted to the Belgian law enforcement agencies at the border? What measures had been taken against the illegal migrants arrested?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u30	Minister, I too would like to see a state of play on the consultation with France and the consultation with Europe on the Schengen area. However, I am also interested in the very practical way in which border controls are organised, in particular with regard to the frequently cited question of the need for migrants to apply for asylum in northern France. If migrants cross the border and are caught by the Belgian police or border guard, how will they be informed that they can apply for asylum in Belgium? How does that happen? Why am I asking that question? My question dates from the beginning of March. On the Dutch TV I saw a report in "Nieuwsuur" about the Belgian controls at the French border. At that time, the report clearly showed that Belgian policemen were picking up a few people right across the border of the bus and sending them back across the French border without a word of explanation about the possibility of applying for asylum in our country. Can you give an overview of border controls along the French border since their start? How many people without legal residence have been localized and what has happened to them: putting back across the French border, initiating asylum procedure, expulsion order, detention in a closed centre? There are a number of options. What is the procedure if the police notice someone without legal residence? Is it up to the police to report the right to asylum? In what language does that happen? Is there a protocol or manual that needs to be followed? If there's such a thing, I'd like to get a copy of it. According to the reportage it is of course only a snapshot, but it was still a clear picture... would not happen systematically. How do you explain that? When can a person be arrested without legal residence and referred to a closed centre? Finally, like my fellow Members, I would like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister, Operation Médusa, which involves carrying out border checks between West Flanders and France and which mobilizes a lot of police resources, is increasingly criticized, particularly by the police. In particular, the police unions denounce the poor working conditions of approximately 250 officers deployed at the border, and the lack of clarity in the instructions given. It would also appear that, of these 250 officers, there are some 50 Brussels police officers, while the Brussels-Capital police force is understaffed and is already heavily overcrowded, in particular because of the Canal Plan, which has been the subject of extensive debate in this Commission. Minister, can you confirm to us the figures given with regard to the number of police officers engaged on a daily basis in this operation? Can you tell us more about the whereabouts of these police officers, if possible by zone? What is the daily cost of this operation? What are the main tasks assigned to these police officers in this operation? How long do you plan to maintain these controls at the border, given that Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code provides that such controls must not exceed a period of ten days?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u32	I have a very detailed answer to the various questions. There are also different facets to the problem. It is my ambition to answer all your questions carefully. As regards mobilisation, the principle of designation and mobilisation of police forces for temporary border controls in West Flanders is based on the rules in force in the respective ministerial circulars, namely GPI 44 ter and MFO-2. These binding solidarity mechanisms within the integrated police force include a concentric mobilization of available resources, in the sense that, first of all and in accordance with the quantitative threshold, the police capacity mobilised is the one closest to the place of mobilization, and then draws the remaining needs from the capacity of the police areas outside the province concerned. In view of the deployment of a relatively important police system – I will come back – over several days, it is necessary to mobilise the police services of the rest of the country. The same mechanisms are invariably applied in support of large-scale events, for example in Brussels, which require the mobilisation of police services from all over the country with such long lead times to come to strengthen police capacity in the capital. For these border controls, the federal police are already making considerable efforts, both with specialized support and in terms of capacity. In addition, various units of the Federal Police are directly involved in this issue, including the road police, the navigation police in the port of Zeebrugge, the Railway Police, the Judicial Police, the Coordination and Support Service in West Flanders. For the moment, the mobilization of the capacity available within the Federal Police is already almost exclusively devoted to the management of the current priorities of society, one of the main ones being the problem of migration. You asked questions about the use of means and efficiency in operations. The decision to increase staff and to conduct border checks with France was taken in consultation with the Governor of the Province of West Flanders, the Coast Corps Chiefs and other relevant police services, as well as the OE. To this end, the police and local authorities provided the necessary data which revealed that there was indeed a significant increase in the number of migrants in transit who, from France, crossed the border with Belgium. On a 24-hour and 7-day basis / 7,290 additional police officers have been designated for this reinforcement. They were mobilized in various missions and tasks, including border checks, administrative treatment of persons arrested without a legal residence permit and cavalry and helicopter patrols. Special measures were requested for Brussels. That is not the case. No special measures were taken to safeguard the capacity deployed by the Brussels police force. The current threat level 3 applies to the whole country and not just to Brussels. In the framework of the reinforcement mechanisms, the Brussels police zones provide structurally little support to other areas, but generally receive a large amount of support from corps outside the Brussels Region. It is therefore logical that the support mechanism can also work in the opposite direction and that the Brussels corps also provide assistance elsewhere. Major events often take place in Brussels and solidarity usually comes to Brussels. In this particular case, it was necessary to call on the solidarity of Brussels as well. It was greatly appreciated that it was delivered by Brussels. Mr Top asked why there were no targeted controls. I would like to point out that, as part of the Medusa operation, the first phase of which began before 23 February, we have been carrying out checks in the border areas and on the major axes for a long time. This operation, which was announced a few months ago, did not concern border control as such, but had the same objectives, in particular to track down refugees and, above all, to catch smugglers. About the second phase, or the other completion of Medusa after 23 February in West Flanders on the French-Belgian border I can give the following specifications. The tasks at the border under the Medusa operation are, firstly, to coordinate the operation through a combdo, secondly, to produce an image through the policy cell CSD Pentolon and, thirdly, to carry out effective controls with the aim of avoiding the creation of tent camps. What are we going to do about it? The operatives at the border in the West Coast zone are used for controls in the Adinkerke-De Panne region. There's a railroad police dispo Railo to check the trains. There is a dispo HAAI from the road police for checks on the parkings along the A-roads. There's a Dispo Port of the Maritime Police for port controls. There is a dispo of the Bruges police zone for increased controls in the Zeebrugge region around the port. There's a helicopter for reconnaissance orders. There is also a mortgaged reserve, as well as a reserve FGP in the context of handling human trafficking and an ambulance. There is the orientation of the VVI department of the local police and a migration dog and a CO meter are made available daily. Finally, two processing offices were set up in the border region, one in Veurne and one in De Panne. The operatives of the checks can be adjusted according to observed shifts of the routes. They certainly do not remain in a permanent place; the flows of refugees through which border crossings or other routes are taken into account. It is actually a rather dynamic fact. In the interior, the Medusa operation, which focuses on secondary migration on high-risk trains, in ports, on motorways and on parkings, is still ongoing. So we had already put in place the operatives on the subject before we did the border controls. Collecting hard and soft evidence against smugglers is one of the aims of the operation. Questions were asked about communication with France and notification to the EU Commission. First, I would like to comment on the notification to the Commission and the consultations in the government. The government decided to re-establish border controls at the border between West Flanders and France for an initial period of 30 days. This led to the dismantling of the illegal camp in Calais on top of the ever-increasing number of transit migrants. It is not, therefore, that we have not yet observed the phenomenon before 23 February. The phenomenon was there. The fear of the local police, which has also come true, was that the current would really increase at the time when the camps were dismantled. We have therefore made an official notification to the European Commission and to the Member States first and foremost with the application of Articles 23 and 24 of the Schengen Borders Code. I also informed French Minister Cazeneuve about the measure and the notification to the European Commission. On 25 February 2016, the Prime Minister and I received a letter from European Commissioner Avramopoulos, responsible for Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship, stating that due to the nature of the operation, another provision in the Schengen Borders Code should be applied, in particular Article 25. We had called for Articles 23 and 24 of the Schengen Borders Code. The European Commission has said that, in this case, Article 25 could be better invoked as an exceptional case. It was the first time we started that procedure. That was actually in conjunction with the European Commission. Even though the European Commission had recognised that this was a foreseeable and already evolving situation, in particular due to the ongoing trial in France, due to the urgency with which border controls had to be temporarily re-implemented, there was no prior consultation with the European Commission and the Member States. Well, in such a case, the European Commission prefers to follow the procedure laid down in Article 25, because it is an event that requires immediate action. This is even the case if it has been clear for some time that there is a risk that the event will occur. Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code provides for an initial period of 10 days for the introduction of border controls, renewable periods of 20 days each, with a maximum total period of two months. In close consultation and with the approval of the European Commission, Belgium has made a new notification to the European Commission and the European Member States on the basis of Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code. As proposed by the European Commission, the notification also immediately announced the extension of the measure by a maximum of 20 days. In addition to the situation in Calais, the evacuation of illegal camps across northern France will create a further risk of transmigration towards Belgium. The current extension, i.e. the period of 10 plus 20 days, is therefore valid until 23 March. Next week the Council of Ministers will consider whether we are requesting a further extension from the European Commission. It was also asked whether the issue had been raised in the government. The government parties agreed to the reintroduction of border controls within the limited area between the province of West Flanders and the French border region, given the urgency of the situation. The possibility provided for the Member States in the Schengen Borders Code is intended to deal with these situations temporarily by means of a reintroduction of border controls, precisely when the targeted controls prove insufficient to guarantee public order and internal security. In fact, the government has been consulted on this issue. I now come to the questions about communication with neighbouring countries, more specifically France. I informed my French counterpart, Minister Cazeneuve, by mail of the reintroduction of border controls, pursuant to Articles 23 and 24 of the Schengen Borders Code and of the notification to the European Commission on the same day. Both on our own initiative and at the request of the European Community, the Prime Minister and I have decided to contact the United Kingdom and to conclude agreements with the countries likely to be places of departure for the latter (France and the Netherlands). Under the Schengen Borders Code, Member States decide whether or not to reintroduce border controls in accordance with the provisions laid down. The requirements and conditions of the Schengen Borders Code must therefore be complied with. The European Commission shall ensure that this respect is maintained. On what basis are smugglers intercepted? There is a permanent evaluation of the condition, the number of intercepted transit migrants and runners and their modus operandi. Based on that, the police are adjusting its operatives. That happens in a flexible way. Already in the first week that led to the intercept of 16 human smugglers. We will continue to do so. I underline the very good and integrated cooperation in the field of local police, which is strengthened by units of the federal police's administrative column, as well as the federal judicial police, under the leadership of the police, when it comes to tackling human trafficking. The asylum procedure must, as a first step, take place in France, where the services have received all relevant information and information. The intercepted persons do indeed want to join the United Kingdom and have so far provided no indication to the police of any asylum application. They are therefore in permanent illegality. The police services shall make the intercepted persons available to the Office of Foreigners, which shall take a decision in accordance with its competence. The Foreigners' Office takes care of any asylum applications. This procedure, which passes through the Furnes treatment centre, is particularly effective. I can confirm that the police have been instructed to remind people of their rights to apply for asylum, but very few use it. Figures were also requested. I have an overview of the interception of transit migrants in general in the period 2015/2016 in West Flanders. I can give you those figures per month for the years 2015 and 2016. You will notice that the increase will be significant from October 2015. I'll give you the numbers. For the year 2015: January 133, February 115, March 190, April 154, May 228, June 233, July 178, August 236, September 235, October 542, November 362 and December 783. For 2016: January 950 and February 1 418. What are the concrete results since the start of the action? The concrete results of the Medusa action in their entirety are difficult to measure because we do not know what the preventive and dissuasive influence has been. These border posts can also have a preventive and dissuasive effect. In general, we can say that for the time being there is a decrease in the number of transit migrants in the coastal region and that tent camps have not been completed. These are the objectives that we had set ourselves. With regard to the naked performance of the action until mid-March, a total of 717 transit migrants were found in the coastal region by the services directly involved in Medusa. The border region concerns 433 transit migrants. At the temporary administrative handling centre there were 93 transit migrants. By the railway police 47 were arrested by road police 9 and by the shipping police of Zeebrugge 135 transit migrants. In addition, of course, transit migrants have also been found by the non-directly involved partners. These figures have not been charged. In the RAAK, which is the administrative handling centre, 231 persons were handled, 296 were ordered to leave the territory and 357 were returned to the border. Mr President, I think I have given quite a complete answer to the various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u33	Minister, your answer was quite complete and quite extensive, as you announced. Mr Vandenput has no reply. Mr Top is not here. Mr Pivin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u34	Minister, I have a comment and a question to make. We know solidarity. I do not know the figures for the balance of solidarity: is it more in favour of Brussels or the rest of the country? I'll ask you a question to get them because you look sure of yourself. I would remind you that Brussels is the capital of the country. It does not seem disturbing to me that the scale is leaning in that direction. You said, if I understood you correctly, that we were using roughly all the available capacity of the federal police. That's good, the results follow. But what if something else happens? Do we still have a reserve capacity? I guess so, but which one? How big is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u35	It's a matter of priorities. For example, for football matches, we try to keep capacity. FC Liège's football match against the Beerschot on March 23 is a big risk. Also, we will deploy a great capacity. For these events, it's settled. We have the level of terrorism, we have the asylum crisis and the crisis of transmigration. At some point, we need to mobilize all the capacity we can to manage all of this. It is clear that sometimes the capacity is on the ground. It's not unlimited. We're recruiting and we're going to train staff to increase capacity. But in the meantime, I have to work with the means at my disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u36	Minister, you have given a very detailed answer, which I will read with great attention. We share the same concern anyway, in the sense that we must avoid a tent camp along the Belgian coast. How do we avoid a tent camp? Of course, by encouraging those people to apply for asylum. However, I have a very strong suspicion that this is not happening in the right way. The answer you have just given does not remove that concern. The first contact takes place with the police, with the person carrying out border surveillance or border controls or with more sporadic control in the larger border area. It is up to the police to make the rights clear in a very good way in the language of the migrant, so supported by interpreters. I asked you whether and how that happens, and you simply replied that it is happening. However, the reportage on Dutch television shows something else. How do you explain that? I don't know if you saw that report, but maybe you had it looked up because of my parliamentary question. At least from that reportage I get a completely different picture. I have also asked you if there is a protocol manual for the police, which states how policemen should deal with it. What words do they say? That's what it's about in the end. Do they have a document in the migrant's language, with any explanation? That seems necessary to me. You didn't answer that. Maybe you can go into that later. I have an additional question about the treatment centre in Veurne. What role does this centre have in the asylum procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u37	By the way, Mr De Vriendt, the migrants are being admitted tomorrow morning, and I am going to go over there to see what is going on in the field, and these questions are being asked. I am sure those who are asked questions will be asked because it concerns two different flows in the handling. Anyone who wishes to apply for asylum will be referred to the Foreign Office. If you do not want to apply for asylum, you go to the processing centre, which is a strange word, but that is what it is called in Veurne, where the person is registered and where fingerprints are taken, after which the person is put back across the border. It is therefore about two different flows, and since the two flows deal with people, I am sure that the question of the possibility of an asylum application will be put effectively. The feedback I get from the services is that there are very few refugees going into it. They don't want asylum here. They want to go to the United Kingdom. That was also the whole problem of Calais and Dunkirk. I also talked about this with Minister Cazeneuve. He said they're trying to convince the refugees to apply for asylum, but they want to go to the United Kingdom. What amazes me now in a positive way is that France, in dismantling the park or the jungle in Calais, is communicating that 70% of the population now wants to ask for asylum. They are spread over better places, with better conditions and want to apply for asylum now. I will continue to follow that up, but I am surprised that as long as they were in the jungle, they didn't want to apply for asylum and they did after the dismantling. That phenomenon still requires some explication.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u38	That doesn't surprise me at all. I visited the camp in Dunkirk. The problem, including in Calais, was that the government was not represented in that camp and did not want to enter it. There was no contact with the refugees to tell them what their rights are. If the camp is dismantled, these people are distributed, everything becomes smaller, but there is immediate contact with the government, as the dismantling is done by the government. We must stop telling the story that refugees do not want to apply for asylum, because it is not true. It is about doing a lot of good work for the refugees. If they apply for an asylum status in Belgium or France, they can also get to Great Britain via the detour of the visa. The refugees have no interest in not applying for asylum. If they want to go to Britain, they can, but then the easiest way is to apply for asylum in France or Belgium. What is the moral of the story off the Belgian coast? If we encounter migrants, we must explain to them with all our power what their rights to asylum are. It is still not clear to me that this is how it happens. I asked for a protocol or manual on the subject. I am also stuck with the images of the Dutch reportage. I can only express my concern here. I ask you, together with your colleagues in the government, to make the most of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u39	Minister, thank you for your detailed and comprehensive answer. I would, however, like to draw your attention to the question of the organization of the travel of police officers and agents. These movements lead to an overload of work. For now, the situation is not easy. As you said, all capabilities are mobilized. These complicated and exceptional situations must be limited in time. Still it is that, given the overload of work, a lot of signals are and are sent to you. In addition, you have given us a list of the tasks assigned to the police services. However, according to the feedback we have, things are not as clear as you seem to say. It is therefore important that the information work be done properly. However, as far as the Brussels workforce is concerned, I understand that solidarity must exist in both directions. Obviously, in this case, we find ourselves again in a particular context. We discussed in this committee the Canal Plan, the implications of which are known at the level of services and new assignments. Today, the Medusa Plan is being added, which raises even more concerns within the police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u40	The interplay No. Mr Kir's 123 was postponed to another meeting. Mr Top will come later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u41	Minister, recently in the Eupen region, citizens have been able to see a "combi" vehicle in the colours of the federal police but equipped with foreign registration plates. In fact, it turns out that the police area of Roulers would have renounced the use of this combi and that the responsible leasing company resold the latter, without, however, removing the lettering of the federal police on the body of the vehicle before giving it to a private person. Given the current context of the terrorist threat, this incident, although exceptional, is, at the very least, regrettable given the potential implications of a lack of rigour on the part of some service providers. So, have you been aware of the facts and can you confirm them to us? Has an investigation been conducted to identify the responsibilities and failures of the service provider? Have any instructions been given to the various police areas to avoid this type of incident in future in their relations with the car leasing companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u42	Mr Calomne, I did see the photograph of the combi in question. It is intolerable that such a situation can occur. A local police vehicle in the RIHO area is involved. It seems that the leasing firm is in this case at fault. I am learning that Committee P has begun an investigation into this matter. The results will be communicated to you at a later stage. There are guidelines within the police on the procedure to be followed when a vehicle is eliminated. For your information, this is Circular GPI 51 of 13 September 2006 on the treatment of decommissioned police equipment (Directive and Recommendations). As long as this is an isolated case, it is not appropriate to amend the directive. I therefore await the results of Committee P's investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u44	Mr President, Minister, because of the government's desire to bring as many police officers as possible to the field, you have decided to put an end to the awareness-raising activities of the Education and Prevention Unit (CEP), which were carried out in schools in particular. This cell was created in 1958 in the gendarmerie under the name "Via Secura". Its main purpose was to educate and take charge of public relations. As a result of collaboration with the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR), the nine provincial units have the task of giving theoretical traffic lessons in schools, combined with practical exercises on roadways; providing information sessions in companies on the issue of traffic; or participating in major events such as the Auto Show. We all remember this type of interaction when we were still in primary school. The Education and Prevention Unit also has two ton cars which are made available by the IBSR and which are used mainly for public relations events, in order to raise awareness and persuade citizens to wear the seatbelt. These campaigns also take place in secondary schools. Minister, in putting an end to the existence of the CEP, have you considered alternative options for the continuation of its missions, possibly in collaboration with other levels of authority, or is this a choice guided solely by budgetary considerations? Don't you think that prevention and awareness of road safety from an early age – so, especially in schools – has a positive influence on the behaviour of road users? What will become of the police officers who still belong to the various provincial cells? What assignment did you consider for them? What career management policy do you intend to implement, particularly in terms of the assignment of staff at the end of your career? Finally, what will become of the equipment in which the services concerned have invested, in particular the well-known ton cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u45	Mr Vanden Burre's question is attached to Question No 9794 by Mrs Poncelet, but she announced that she could not join us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u46	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, the sixth reform of the state provides that the competences in education are transferred from the federal to the regions. It is the Regions that will take over the mission. Contacts have already taken place in early February between the federal police and the three regions. As regards the equipment of the IBSR which was made available to the CEPs, it has been acquired or is in the process of being acquired by the Regions. We're going to transfer them to the Regions. In addition, this is part of the current debate on key tasks of the police. The Federal Highway Police will therefore ensure that the transfer of skills, knowledge and equipment to the Regions is carried out in the best possible conditions. A first meeting has already been held in February between the Federal Highway Police and the three Regions, individually, to take stock of this issue. We are convinced that good road safety behaviour must be achieved at an early age, which is why we insist that this prevention mission be maintained and now carried out by the regional level. Various meetings have already been held between the Director of the Federal Highway Police and the members of these cells. A working group will soon be set up. In particular, it will be responsible for supporting the staff of the CEPs in their professional reorientation by pursuing positive solutions for both the staff concerned and the federal police. It should be noted that some staff members have already requested, or even obtained, a new assignment. In the debate on key tasks, we have taken the decision to transfer this competence, but it is clear that we will not stop this service at the federal level until it has started in the Regions. Prevention is important. I have always said that the implementation of this decision in key tasks was for 2016-2018. With respect to your fourth question, initially, the equipment used by the Federal Highway Police CEPs was owned by the IBSR. In 2015, ownership of this equipment was already transferred, on payment, to the Regions during the sixth state reform, with the exception of equipment for the Walloon Region, which has not yet been transferred, and which the Walloon Region has not yet paid. The Federal Highway Police continue to use this material, but given the cessation of the activities of the CEPs, this material will be handed over to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you, we are convinced that road safety is crucial and that young people need to be made aware of it. That is why we regret the decision taken today, that is, the fact that this mission is no longer carried out by field police officers. We believe that this is smart prevention, which makes it possible to create a link between these police officers and young people. You said that you had met with the Regions and Communities, which are indeed competent for prevention. But according to the returns from the field, it is not known who will resume these missions or who will take care of this training. We hope that things will be clarified quickly. Great questions and fears remain around this issue. I welcome the fact that this will not stop until a structural solution is found with the Regions. We will continue to pay attention to this issue because road safety is learned from an early age and awareness-raising is a key factor in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u48	Minister, there is still a mass of personal information available on the Internet about staff from the Nuclear Research Centre. Two months ago, a video was discovered by terrorists, in which a top guy from the SCK was shadowed. Then there was criticism, because his private data was too easy or so easy to find. In the meantime, however, safety does not seem to be strengthened at all. The SCK complies with the directive drawn up by the FANC. Nevertheless, personal data, such as private addresses, can still be found in public reports. Moreover, many employees or relatives of these employees still post personal information on social media. In the meantime, it is not inconceivable that terrorist organisations may be able to plan a nuclear or biological attack. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions. In the meantime, you have known for more than two months that there is a risk that terrorist groups will fish the Centre. What steps have been taken against this in the meantime? Here in committee, I have tried several times over the last few months to clarify the issue of cybersecurity. I have also indicated which cases are not being properly followed. To date, however, all data are still not sufficiently secure. An action plan is actually pressing for it. What measures do you provide for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u49	Mr Top, all nuclear sites in Belgium have been in a state of increased vigilance since the shooting at the Jewish Museum in Brussels on 24 May 2014. This means that security authorities constantly analyse the terrorist threat and that the nuclear security regime is being reviewed on a regular basis. This review shall take into account new developments and relevant information. The attacks in Paris and the discovery of the video are relevant information after which additional security measures were taken. It is not possible to explain in detail what measures are involved because one of the security measures is just not to talk about protection measures. In addition, the government recently decided to set up a Monitoring and Protection Directorate within the federal police. In this direction, a nuclear rapid response unit will be established. Pending this establishment last week, we decided with the government to use military forces for the external surveillance of nuclear sites. A total of 140 soldiers are involved, but this does not mean that 140 soldiers are on the ground at the same time. On the ground there are 24 soldiers present, but in order to be able to guarantee this service, a total of 140 soldiers are needed. As far as your second question is concerned, national and international efforts have been made for a number of years to strengthen the physical security systems of nuclear installations. In practice, the information and cybersecurity of Belgian nuclear power plants are monitored in two ways. In the context of the 2011 stress tests, the security of Belgian nuclear power plants against cyber attacks was already subject to an in-depth review. The evaluation of these results shows that a cyberattack against a Belgian nuclear power plant cannot lead to a loss of safety functions, mainly because the reactor control and safety systems are disconnected from the plant and plant computer networks. In addition, almost all reactor control and safety systems use an analogue technology that is not susceptible to cyber attacks. The parties concerned are well aware that these tests were a snapshot and that a continuous follow-up of cybersecurity is needed, given the rapid and continuous evolution within this domain. That is why the FANC and Bel V also carry out specific monitoring of the information security of all nuclear facilities in Belgium through regular inspections. Any changes to the installations shall also be evaluated in accordance with information and cyber security. Furthermore, especially in the case of social media, a sense of awareness of personnel about the sharing of personal information can be useful, without, however, interfering with employees' private lives. The FANC has already scheduled a meeting in 2015 with the newly established Cybersecurity Centre which took place in January of this year. It discussed what initiatives Belgium still needs to take to optimise its cyber security and to strengthen international cooperation in this field. These contacts will continue in the future. In addition, the Agency also actively participates in the Working Party on Information Security chaired by the FPS Justice. The aim is therefore to make staff more aware of the use of social media. It is, of course, difficult to put a 24-hour staff member next to each staff member, but we are going to sensitise again to indicate that it is all very sensitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You gave a description of cyber security, not just the SCK, but everything related to cyber security. The government needs to pay more attention to this and work on it much more plannedly. It is not a question of checking employees but of working completely plannedly. They are therefore working preventively and I do not want to say that they are going to raise employees, but they are being given a guide to which they must pay attention, without having to force them to do so. They are actually given a school, a path that they have to pay attention to in order to secure a number of things in their privacy. Let's start with that. Then there's the government itself. The example of the SCK was about certain individuals, but the government itself has a long way to go. If you describe the creation and the working groups, then I insist that the process of drawing up an action plan to improve and bring our government to a higher level is very slow. It's actually a very slow road. We are constantly confronted with attacks, whether dangerous or not. You have described that in this particular case it did not pose a risk to nuclear safety, fortunately. However, the number of incidents indicates that the government remains sensitive to external attacks on all its sites. Today we urgently need to make a point of this. I would therefore like to continue to insist that this is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u51	Mr President, Minister, police-on-web, the system whereby people can report minor crimes without having to pass through the office, is still not compatible with the police's computer system after ten years. As a result, the declarations still have to be printed or printed often, and then re-entered into the system. However, the system would provide an excellent opportunity to reduce the workload of the agents. At present, the web platform receives an average of sixteen reports every day and apparently the police simply ticks over those reports. Such a declaration platform works very well in the Netherlands. The Dutch police website won the public prize website of the year for that platform. In response to the message, you state that budgetary constraints do not allow the expansion of police-on-web. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, was a cost estimate made for the expansion of police-on-web, in particular for the linking of that application? Secondly, would it be possible not to make the declaration via the electronic card reader in order to lower the threshold for the declaration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u52	Mr President, Mr Top, we are going to take the declaration facility with us at I-police, so that integration can be done immediately. The budgetary constraints are there. After all, now that such an adjustment is being made in the short term and a global system is soon to be introduced, it seems to me that costs are similar to the death house. We have therefore opted not to do so. We want to focus everything on the I-police and take that element into account. As far as the card reader system is concerned, police-on-web including the card reader has been developed by Fedict. If you have any reservations about this, you must ask the Minister responsible for Fedict. That body is responsible for that system. We're betting on I-police now. We will integrate all functionalities with the police and with the public in I-police. That is why, unless things are very urgent, I am not inclined to introduce many new developments into old systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u54	Mr President, Minister, on 21 February 2016, the director of Europol declared in a German daily newspaper that Europe was currently threatened by terrorism, in particular through the infiltration of jihadists led by Daesh and he estimated that 3 000 to 5 000 people on European territory were preparing for further large-scale attacks targeting civil society. Minister, to the best of your knowledge, what evidence and information has the Director of Europol been able to provide this estimate? Do you confirm it? If so, have specific initiatives been taken? Is there a geographical estimate of this presence within the European Union? Have these elements been communicated to all Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u55	Mr President, Mr Pivin, during federal police contacts with Europol, Europol said that this figure was never mentioned by the Europol Director. Europol said: "The German media recently relayed a false picture of Europol's position on the subject. We have always indicated that we estimate at least 5,000 European Union nationals radicalised by the Islamic State and involved in conflict zones in Syria or Iraq. Some of these foreign fighters, whose exact number is unknown, have since returned to Europe with the intention of committing terrorist attacks and/or with the ability to commit such acts. We also believe that the Islamic State retains, in the person of these foreign fighters and other radicalized members, the capacity to act necessary for further attacks of the nature of those perpetrated in Paris last November. In view of all these factors, Europol considers that the current terrorist threat is the greatest that Europe has ever known in at least a decade. It is therefore important to point out that we have never declared that 5,000 foreign fighters have returned to the territory of the European Union and that they are currently active. The situation is fluid and the information available on it is fragmented, but it remains a top priority for Europol and its partners." However, I can tell you that the information provided by Belgium is not fragmentary. Europol is aware of the five categories included in the OCAM database.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u56	Minister, thank you for this development. I regret, of course, that some media are reinforcing the concerns already present in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u57	Yes, and not just the media...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u58	Mr. Chair, Minister, a report from the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a non-governmental organization, has recently been made public. It aims in particular at the cyberprotection of sensitive infrastructures in Europe. If the methodology used raises questions, the analysis carried out by this body points to the total absence of cyberprotection mechanisms for our nuclear power plants. However, protective measures exist in this regard. The reinforcement decided specifically by the AFCN is, moreover, good news and proves that the government is taking stock of the situation, as it pointed out following the attacks in Paris in November 2015. That said, after the hacking of the AFCN website on February 21st, can you tell me what diagnosis was made and whether the consequences of this hacking have affected the internal functioning of the AFCN? What is AFCN's digital data control and protection department? Is the AFCN-controlled infrastructure digital protection process outsourced or does its IT department manage the structures and operations of these facilities from A to Z? What actions are planned to strengthen and ensure digital security of all facilities controlled by the AFCN?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u59	Mr President, my colleague, the cyber protection of the AFCN website is not related to the cyber protection of AFCN-controlled facilities. With regard to the analysis and follow-up of the cyberattack against the AFCN website on 21 February, I refer you to the answer given on 26 February to oral question No. 9599 by Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet here. With regard to the current regime for the cyberprotection of installations controlled by AFCN and the actions taken by AFCN to strengthen it even further in the future, I refer you to the answer also given on 26 February to question 9758 by Mr Alain Top also present with us. Within the AFCN, two services collaborate to ensure the protection of the Agency's digital data, namely the Nuclear Security Service and the ICT Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Olivier Maingain's 9858 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raoul Hedebouw was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kristof Calvo's 9879 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u62	Minister, we have already had a lot of time to discuss this, but I still want to go back to the provisions that come out of the Supreme Council of Health this time. It believes that nuclear safety requires a more important precautionary strategy than is currently the case. The recommendations are as follows. In particular, it calls for the extension of evacuation zones in the event of a major nuclear accident to 20 km instead of the current 10 km. According to the Supreme Council of Health, the range of distribution of diode pellets should also be extended to 100 km compared to 20 today. This is almost all of Belgium, Minister! So my question is very simple. Have you learned about these recommendations from the Supreme Council of Health? I suppose so! What is your reaction to this? Will it translate into more concrete measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u63	Mr Minister, on 1 March 2016, the High Health Council proposed a study to show that our country is not prepared at all for a nuclear disaster genre Fukushima. Let's hope this doesn't happen here. After all, we are not on a tectonic fault line and our coastline is also a little smaller. In the event of a nuclear disaster in Doel, more than 1 million people would be affected, we learn from the report. The social and economic fabric would also be affected by generations. The damage around Doel could amount to a multiple of our GNP. However, the impact on public health is also devastating. In addition to the direct impact of many deaths and injuries, the short- and medium-term consequences cannot be foreseen. Hundreds of thousands of people would be exposed to carcinogenic radiation. Others would suffer from stress, depression and suicidal tendencies. It is therefore essential and, especially with the opening of the old Objective 1 and 2 nuclear power stations, that the nuclear contingency plans be adapted urgently. After the FANC a few weeks ago, the Supreme Health Council has now made a series of recommendations in a report. Among other things, the Council calls for an extension of the evacuation zones to 20 kilometres around the nuclear power stations. For the distribution of iodine tablets, the Council, like the FANC, recommends a zone of 100 kilometres around the nuclear power stations. Not so long ago we had an exchange of views with you on the contingency plans in the Chamber. You said at the time that the FANC's earlier opinion on the substantial extension of the safety perimeters, in particular to keep windows and doors closed within a radius of 20 instead of 10 kilometres, was only an opinion and that you would look into the matter. That is why I have the following questions, following the report of the Supreme Health Council. What impact will you have on the devastating conclusions of the High Health Council, in particular on the possible emergency shelters for thousands and perhaps even tens of thousands of people living around who need to be relocated to safer areas for a long time? What concrete changes will you make to the current emergency plan in the event of nuclear disasters, in particular in accordance with the recommendations of the High Health Council? The Council refers to a broad involvement of non-specialists and the establishment of a neutral monitoring body at European level. Thirdly, in the update of the emergency plan in the event of nuclear disasters, in consultation with your colleague from Health, will you also make room for an approach to the impact on health? So I am asking not only about the economic and social impact, but also about the impact on health. Equally interesting about preventive health measures is the following question. Does the operator of nuclear power stations therefore pay for the increased distribution of iodine tablets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u64	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday, 9 March, we were receiving from the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety the representatives of the Higher Health Council to present their recommendations for the reform of the emergency plan. The least we can say from this hearing is that our current emergency and evacuation plan is no longer adequate. In their recommendations, the experts agree with the request of the Scientific Council of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), whether in terms of the distribution of iodine pills throughout the country, the extension of the evacuation zone to 20 km or the organization of full-scale evacuation exercises. Having said that, I was most struck by their insistence on the need to immediately update our contingency plan. They said that the main lesson to be learned from Fukushima is that we can no longer exclude this kind of incident at home – whether in Antwerp or Liège. Minister, when are you going to table your emergency plan reform? Are you going to follow the recommendations of the AFCN Higher Health Council and Scientific Council, both in terms of the distribution of iodine pills throughout the territory, the extension of the evacuation zone to 20 km or the organization of life-size evacuation exercises? I remember when I asked you last time when we only had the Scientific Council's report, you said you were waiting for more reports. Now we have read the report of the Supreme Council of Health, which makes exactly the same remarks. So are you going to give me the same answer as before or are you finally going to follow these three recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u65	Colleagues, in the context of the ongoing update of the Nuclear Emergency Plan, the recent opinion of the High Health Council on the Nuclear Emergency Plan will be taken into account, as will previous opinions of the High Health Council on the strategy for the protection of the thyroid gland against radioactive iodine, the advice of the Scientific Council for Ionising Radiation and others, such as that of the international experts' group HERCA and WENRA. As noted above, these opinions are analysed with a view to determining the strategic and operational consequences. This is done correctly and seriously since, where some opinions are sometimes similar, there are also significant differences. This applies, for example, to the zoning aspect where concepts such as "emergency planning area" and what can be called "enlargement area" are interpreted differently and used in place of each other as is also the case for the notions of "pre-distribution of iodine tablets" and "availability of iodine tablets" across the country, which is not the same. As far as emergency planning exercises are concerned, they are always carried out in the most realistic way possible for the actors involved in the plan. However, account must be taken of the fact that exercises, with regard to the actions and means to be undertaken, cannot hinder the day-to-day functioning of the actors concerned, in particular the relief services. In addition, in addition to nuclear exercises, they are involved in all kinds of exercises at the municipal, provincial and federal levels, for many different risks. I also note that the current discussions on the nuclear emergency plan ignore the fact that nuclear emergency planning and crisis management are linked within the risk cycle and build on the prevention aspect. Nuclear emergencies do not arise until the redundant safety facilities at Belgian nuclear power stations fail and even then barriers are built in to reduce the amount of radioactivity that can be released. The opinion of the Scientific Council refers to the existence of the fully independent second level of safety protection systems of our nuclear power plants, which is not available in many plants to confirm the emergency planning zone for evacuation at ten kilometres. The updated contingency plan, for which I expect a first text proposal due to my services by the end of June, will nevertheless take a serious step forward in preparing for nuclear emergencies. This framework plan, which will need to be complemented by specific procedures and plans at the level of the actors concerned at different levels, will be a flexible organisational directive to address small and large emergencies. Attention will be drawn, inter alia, to speeding up the activation of all crisis structures, to integrated cooperation between the different levels of governance, with neighbouring countries and with international bodies. It will consider different phases of crisis management, not only with regard to the acute phase of crisis management, but also for the transition to it and for the post-care phase. It will define the organisational mechanisms to extend protection measures requiring specific preparation within the emergency planning zone in a real situation to other parts of the territory if necessary. Finally, it will highlight the socio-economic impact of nuclear emergencies and the need for prior socio-economic vulnerability analyses at various levels. The costs associated with the operationalisation of the emergency plan are covered by the so-called Nuclear Fund, which is provided by fees at the expense of nuclear power generators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u66	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive information, which shows that you are taking the matter seriously. I will not fail to read your answer because it contains a lot of elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I understand that at the end of June we can expect the proposal to include a number of elements, including the extension of the perimeter, and that the costs will be recovered from the Nuclear Fund. It would therefore be a good thing to provide the Nuclear Fund with adequate resources and not to reduce nuclear interest rates, because if a disaster occurs, all the Fund will not be sufficient to bear the costs, as you know. We have also tabled a proposal to ensure that, in the event of a nuclear disaster, the operators of nuclear power stations bear full responsibility and not part of the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u68	Your answer, Minister, is a step forward in relation to the previous responses, as it announces a term, at the end of June, for a first proposal in this area. That is the positive aspect of your answer. As for the significant differences between the opinion of the Scientific Council of the Federal Agency and the Higher Council of Health, I do not quite know where you are going to look for them, but in relation to the objectives we have all mentioned, namely the extension of the evacuation zone to 20 kilometres, the distribution of iodine pills throughout the country and the evacuation exercises, the words are the same!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u70	I tried to write down the examples, but these are nuances. I hope that it is not because of this that you are waiting for June, but that is what you are going to do at that time that will be decisive. However, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Health and the Scientific Council recommend the distribution of iodine pills throughout the country. I hope that in this matter, you will not reverse. Although there are nuances on the modalities, it is the widespread distribution that is mentioned as well as the evacuation areas. Both institutions quote 20 kilometers, not 19 or 21! As for the way in which the exercises are organised, I understand your point. However, what I regret is that people are never involved but only the services concerned. Five years ago, it was seen again in Fukushima, precisely how citizens react, which greatly affects the ability to succeed in evacuation where necessary. I think it is necessary to organise, even if it is delicate, the exercises that involve the citizens. I also like to repeat that we do it for Seveso. In the Seveso exercises, which the Crisis Centre of the Ministry of the Interior organizes, citizens are involved. But in nuclear exercises, we are limited to the actors concerned so as not to take unnecessary risks. In the Namur region, for example, a school was closed because it was not able to react sufficiently in the event of a Seveso accident. The children must have been displaced. I have already asked you about this. But in nuclear matters, we prefer not to look at the consequences, because the damage could be greater than that of Seveso. I can only invite you to go in the direction of involving citizens in nuclear emergency exercises, as we do for the risk of a Seveso accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u71	Mr. Secretary, you have until 12:00. Then we still have time for a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u72	Mr. Chairman, I see that the minister's collaborator has the written answers. He usually has his computer. I would like to turn the questions that I will not have time to ask into written questions, provided that I can receive the written answer today. It would save me a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u73	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 10098, 10099, 10152 and 10155 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 10027 by Mrs Karin Temmerman will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kattrin Jadin's 10162 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u74	Mr President, Minister, on 22 February, a royal decision was issued on how to award grants to support the end-of-life regime for staff of the operational framework of local police for the year 2016. For the year of service 2016, under the end-of-life regime, an amount of 29 million will be allocated as a grant from the federal budget. My question also contains the text of the Royal Decree. I'm not going to read it to you now so you have more room to answer. From various corpses it is noted that there is a great deal of interest in this end-of-life regime. In view of the fact that the regime is not a favor, but a right, we would like to be given final guarantees that the staffing costs for all employees who want to benefit from this regime will be fully reimbursed by the federal government. At present, there is a risk of a problem if the amount envisaged is insufficient. Apparently, it's a fixed amount. I would have liked to have had an answer to my next two questions. Can you guarantee that all employees who wish to benefit from this regime will be fully reimbursed by the federal government? If so, what measures will be taken if the subsidies applied for exceed that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u75	Mr President, Mr Top, my commitment, as well as that of the government, was and is that federal funding will be provided during this legislative period and that commitment will be respected. In concrete terms, this means a subsidy to cover for the zones either the costs of applying the non-activity prior to retirement, or the wage costs of those who decide to extend their career even if they could apply for and benefit from the above-mentioned non-activity. Those two components are therefore financed, we have to say it again. The Royal Decree to which you refer concerns the subsidy for the year 2016. That is where 29 million is foreseen for the police areas and our estimate at this time is that this will certainly be enough. The report to the King by this decision also indicates all amounts for the following years, i.e. 35.6 million in 2017, 38 million in 2018 and 36.8 million for the last year of the legislature. Individual decisions will still have to be taken. We will closely monitor the application of the new end-of-life regime and assess how many people really go into non-activity and how many continue to work. Only then can a more precise assessment be made of whether the amounts envisaged will be sufficient or not. For 2016, we believe that 29 million is enough. For 2017 we think that's okay as well. For 2018 and 2019 I don't rule anything out. If necessary, I will ask for additional appropriations. After all, we can make a prognosis of who is eligible when. In that sense, we conclude that it will certainly be sufficient for 2016 and 2017. However, we will monitor this. That is the result of the annuality of the budget which forces itself on us. The full macro-saving of police pensions for the period 2016-2019 is sufficient to compensate for the entire macro-costs of the new scheme during the same period. However, this is no longer the case, broken down and applied per year. In 2016 and 2017, there are relatively few applications of non-activity. In 2018 and 2019 that crescendo goes, which makes sense since a large number of beneficiaries have to wait until his 58th birthday, while it is now 56 years old. A lot of work has already been done in this file. The proposed regulation is good and fair. A lot of people go into it. I will ensure that its funding is and remains there. That's my commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that, if the estimate is insufficient, additional appropriations will be requested, not only for 2018 and 2019, but also for this year. You insist that everything is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u77	Mr Top, for the record, your question No. 10028 on the Medusa operation, is it postponed or converted into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic362x.u78	That question will be converted into a written question, Mr President.
