ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u1	Questions Nos 10130 and 10450 by Mrs Rita Bellens have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question, introduced last March, concerns the Belgian delegation which visited Indonesia as part of an economic mission chaired by Princess Astrid, a mission in which you participated. Belgium and Indonesia had to sign 24 additional contracts and protocols in order to intensify their economic relations. At present, Belgium is the sixth largest exporter in the European Union to Indonesia and the sixth largest importer of Indonesian goods in the European Union. In 2014, the European Union exported EUR 9.5 billion to Indonesia and Belgium accounted for 4.8% of this amount, or EUR 456 million. Indonesia's interest in our country seems mainly to be based on our expertise in the maritime, agri-food and new energy technologies sectors. These areas are crucial for the development of the Indonesian economy, and we can be pleased that we are taking advantage of them. Mr Secretary of State, have your services already assessed the impact of these new contracts and protocols on our exports to Indonesia? If not, what evaluation mechanisms are planned to obtain such information? In return for this expertise, what economic sectors in Indonesia are of interest to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as my colleague Jadin reminded us from 12 to 19 March, you participated, alongside your Walloon, Flemish and Brussels counterparts, in a princely mission to Indonesia. Today this country is a new global economic power and has a potential for interesting opportunities for Belgian companies. Our country is indeed Indonesia's sixth European partner, and the margins of progress seem to be important in this emerging economy. I come directly to my questions. What has been the trend in trade between Belgium and Indonesia over the last two years? Are statistics maintained at encouraging levels? What are the main sectors of activity involved in our economic relations? What can you draw from the principal mission in terms of results for Belgian companies, but also Indonesian investments in our country? Are you aware of any contracts that would have been sealed and, if so, could you communicate them to us? Have you had the opportunity to participate in bilateral talks with Indonesian officials to promote trade between our two countries? What economic projects have you had the opportunity to defend? Finally, could you inform us, in broad terms, of the measures taken by your services to support regional administrations in their exploration of the Indonesian market? Have initiatives been taken through specific partnerships, including through the various economic diplomacy advisers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u4	Mr President, I thank Members Jadin and Calomne for the questions they have asked me. I will first talk about statistics, then about the Belgian economic mission to Indonesia, to conclude with a few conclusions. The Belgian trade balance with Indonesia is traditionally negative. The deficit reached 778.3 million in 2015. In 2014 and 2015, Indonesia was Belgium's 52nd largest customer. Belgian exports to Indonesia amounted to 454.2 million in 2015, down 1.3% from the previous year. In 2014 and 2015, exports were dominated by chemicals. They accounted for 35 per cent of total exports in 2015; machinery and appliances accounted for 20.2 per cent of the total; animal products accounted for the top 3 with a share of 9.4 per cent. With regard to Belgium's main suppliers, Indonesia took 35th place in 2015. This represents a profit of three places compared to 2014. Belgium imported some 1.2 billion goods from Indonesia, an increase of 10% over 2014. In 2015, imports accounted for 44.1% of the total, footwear, hairdressers and textiles accounted for 13% of imports. Plastics completed the top 3 with a 10% share. I come to the Belgian position compared to that of the neighbouring countries and the European Union in relation to exports of goods. With EUR 454 million in 2015, Belgium accounted for 4.5% of European exports. I will talk about the European Union at 28 - perhaps soon at 27 - to Indonesia. Belgium ranked 7th in Europe, the podium being held by Germany, France and Italy. Between 2014 and 2015, Belgian exports decreased by 1.3%, while the European average of this change was 5.1%. At present, Belgium's position, compared to that of neighbouring countries and the European Union, with regard to imports of goods: in 2015, Belgium accounted for 8% of European imports from Indonesia and ranked sixth European with an amount of about 1.2 billion. The Netherlands, Germany and Italy are the top three in the rankings. Between 2014 and 2015, Belgium grew by 10.4%, while the European average was 6.4%. The trade balance of services with Indonesia looked in favour of Belgium between 2014 and 2015. In 2015, Belgian exports of services to Indonesia amounted to around 81.2 million, an increase of 14% over 2014. On the list of Belgium's main customers, Indonesia ranked 59th. With a share of 35.7% and an amount of around EUR 29 million, other trade-related services have outpaced other categories of export services. This group of services includes services such as trading, operational leasing, legal advice, accounting, management and public relations, audit, accounting, taxation and advertising, and market and public opinion studies. Belgian imports of services from Indonesia totalled around EUR 54 million, an increase of 30% over 2014. Indonesia was Belgium's 70th largest service provider in 2015. With a share of 31% and an amount around 17 million euros in 2015, tourist traffic has outpaced other types of import services. You asked me questions about the Belgian economic mission. The mission was multisectoral and highlighted the following sectors: maritime, logistics, energy, cleantech, food, agriculture and smart cities. Many activities related to these themes have been organized. With regard to Indonesian investments in our country, two meetings, called Investment Power Lunch in Jakarta and Bandung, were organized and brought together members of the Belgian delegation and major Indonesian investors. No less than 27 MOUs and contracts were also signed during the mission. Some were highlighted at the Signing Ceremony for this purpose and others were sealed at seminars held in Jakarta, Bogor and Bandung. As part of the mission, numerous seminars and round tables have enabled the Belgian delegation and Indonesian economic actors to highlight their expertise. The following events were organized: working visit at the ministry of Transportation, the Belgium-Indonesian Cleantech Summit, the Belgium-Indonesia Maritime Summit and the Sustainable Seminar Agriculture: Towards a bio-based Economy. These initiatives, combined with the 440 B2B meetings, and the formal meetings organized by the Economic Attaché and the Embassy were certainly successful for businesses and nearly 3,000 people participated in the Mission's activities. Evaluation questionnaires will be prepared by the regional institutions responsible for external trade (AWEX, Brussels Invest & Export, Flanders Investment & Trade) and will be distributed to the mission's participants in the course of April. Some questions relate to the mission's estimated impact on the medium- and long-term relationships of participating companies. A first evaluation of these results may be carried out a few weeks after the receipt of these questionnaires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. This is the first time I have had the opportunity to ask you a question during this Parliament. I am very pleased with the accuracy with which you answered us. I will read the whole of your answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your particularly comprehensive and precise answers. In conclusion, I will make a statement. While in some sectors we see a decline, it is still much less than in other Member States. We can therefore welcome these good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, trade missions are an excellent tool for improving and strengthening the image of our country abroad. It gives our companies the breeding ground they need for a successful export policy. I would like to refer to the speech you gave to the foreign representatives during the Diplo Days, my question dates from 15 April, in which you referred to three types of trade missions: the princely missions in the presence of a member of the royal family, the official state visits with a complementary economic section by Minister Reynders or the State Secretary, and operational visits in relation to specific cases or sectors under your leadership, a kind of trouble shooting. The first two species take place under the direction of the External Trade Agency. As the regions are also represented within the External Trade Agency through their own agencies, they are thus involved. In the third type of missions, the response of Prime Minister Bourgeois on 1 March 2016 should indicate that "FIT is in no way involved in the planning of such missions and that no direct information is provided on such initiatives. In view of the decisive economic nature of these missions, I would like to express my concern at initiatives that differ from the usual hierarchy or federal economic diplomacy where the regions run and are being supported at national level. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that Flanders, or the FIT, was not contacted on such missions? Do you not think it is desirable that regional representatives, geographically responsible for the country in question, should not be present at contacts with local companies? In addition to the Community sensitivity of such missions, we have to note that there is insufficient coordination between the agendas of the various entities in organising such visits. Can you provide us with information on how this coordination is proceeding or can be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u8	There are indeed different kinds of shipments in which I play a role and in which I participate. Your concern is fully overcome by the calm that prevails on the part of the companies. Apart from the classical princely shipments with Princess Astrid as the representative of King Filip, there is now also an economic element in the foreign state visits. This is an essential part of the coalition agreement that we negotiated together. Let me stress that once again for the sake of clarity. Finally, there are the specific shipments I take on. There are different species to be distinguished in this. There are shipments being undertaken with another member of the federal government. There were shipments together with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, to Iran. A mission to China was planned with the Prime Minister, but it could not continue because of the attacks in Brussels on 22 March. With the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Alexander De Croo, there was a successful mission to Guinea and Burkina Faso. Those last kinds of shipments are very successful. Together with the Minister for Development, I want to continue bringing trade and development cooperation together. In my view, development is also largely linked to economic development. Trade and investment play an extremely important role in this. Apart from the shipments with members of the federal government, I also take shipments at the request of companies themselves, who come to me, including chambers of commerce and sector organisations, but above all at the request of groups of individual companies. They feel that there is an absolute necessity. This also often involves companies that want to make the most of the business-to-governance approach proposed by the federal level. Companies can, thanks to my participation, directly raise their file with the highest foreign government representatives. For example, in Brazil, in addition to the President, I met numerous ministers and senior officials. Contacts at the highest level of politics are also established in several other destinations. This is clearly an added value which the federal level can offer and which all our companies greatly appreciate. It is a finding that I am based, among other things, on the recent regional mission to India and on the press report that the Länder have difficulty in getting in touch with the federal or national foreign level. I can also underline that in February I met both the Minister for Civil Aviation, to advocate a direct line flight between Brussels and Bombay, and the Minister for Shipping, together with the Antwerp port ships Marc Van Peel, President of the Port Company. As part of the federalism of cooperation, I insist that the regional trade attachés are always informed about my movements, my agenda and my contacts. They shall also be invited to do so. They have also always been invited to participate in all the political meetings I have in the country, and they can and must also make suggestions for meetings, themes and so on. I agree with you that coordination could be improved, because I found that I was not aware of the regional mission to India. The reverse reciprocity has played.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u9	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think companies benefit from clear agreements on who does what where. That clarity can prevent concern. The competence to which you refer in relation to your third type of mission is a competence of the Länder. It is only natural to carry out what is agreed. Coordination must definitely be improved. This point is partly contained in the ongoing negotiations for the cooperation agreements. Let it be very clear: these powers must be exercised by the Flemish level. All agreements on this need to be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u10	Mr President, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the mission you participated in in Brazil. Can you give us a quick debriefing of this mission? Can you give us details of the meetings and visits you made on site? Can you list the companies that took part in this mission? Finally, can you tell us whether this visit has led to projects or agreements between Belgian and Brazilian companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u11	Mr President, my colleague, I have carried out a mission that has been described as very successful in Brazil. This mission led me to the capital Brasilia, briefly to São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. In Brasilia, I had a meeting with the President of Apex-Brasil, the Brazilian Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments (all Brazilian sectoral federations). I discussed bilateral trade opportunities. Then I met the governor of Goiás, a federated state with very close ties to Belgium. I have discussed Belgian trade issues with the Brazilian Minister of Trade and Industry, and in particular Brazil's anti-dumping measures against products exported by Belgium. Following a previous mission, I held a plea at the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture for better access to the Brazilian market for Belgian pears. During a meeting with the Brazilian Governor of the National Bank, I discussed the general economic context. Also in Brasilia, we organized a PR event with representatives of Belgian potato producers who are encountering difficulties in the negotiations on the Brazilian market. With the Brazilian Ministry of Civil Aviation, I discussed a regulatory framework for a direct flight between Belgium and Brazil. I also attended a briefing by AWDC, Brazilian officials, on the certification process to facilitate the export of Brazilian diamonds to our country. The cooperation between AWDC and the Ministry of Mines is the result of my meeting last year with the Brazilian minister in charge of this department. I also met with the Brazilian Deputy Minister of Science Policy, Innovation and Technology in the company of Belgian companies active in the sector. In São Paulo, I met with the management of the airline TAM to discuss scheduled direct flights to Belgium (dossier always followed). With representatives of financial organizations, and in particular BNP Paribas in Brazil, I discussed the financial and economic context and outlined a framework for cooperation. I then attended a seminar on trade regulation organized by the Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce in Brazil. At the headquarters of the UCB-Brazil, I was informed that the intervention, the previous year with the Minister of Health, led to the authorisation of an anti-epileptic drug, Keppra, on the Brazilian market. I took part in working meetings organized by the port of Antwerp and having visited the Brazilian subsidiary of the Belgian company Umicore, I also visited the Belgian stand at the Intermodal trade fair, the most important event in the field of logistics and international transport in Latin America. There I met representatives of our ports and all our Belgian companies and represented the port companies. In Rio de Janeiro, I met with the President of the Trade and Industry Association. I also opened a seminar on opportunities in the construction sector where several Belgian companies had the opportunity to present themselves, establish contacts with Brazilian partners and forge contracts. Finally, I went to the Olympic Village where I was informed of how the city of Rio could benefit from the investments during the Olympic Games, where a number of Belgian companies were represented. Finally, I met Brazilian President Dilma Roussef, whom I informed about my mission to promote the contribution of Belgian companies not only to the organisation of the Olympic Games but also to the various political renewal plans that are taking place in Brazil.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u12	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his precise answer which, I imagine, had to please my colleague Luykx concerning the port of Antwerp and diamonds, for the concerns expressed in the previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the Government Agreement, it appears in full letter that a first National Business and Human Rights Action Plan will be drawn up in cooperation with the relevant departments and entities. At present, however, this plan is not known, either by non-governmental actors, by the social partners or even by Parliament. However, this is an essential point to ensure, among other things, that such a plan provides for concrete and ambitious measures in the field of human rights, in order to genuinely ensure corporate accountability and ensure policy coherence. It would also appear that a draft or a first text is circulating, since opinions have already been given on the subject. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, the following questions. What is the status of the government in drafting its National Business and Human Rights Action Plan? What is the timetable for its adoption? What are the government's main lines of action for this plan, particularly with regard to corporate responsibility? What consultations or consultations of the various actors concerned (NGOs, federated entities, etc.) Have they already been carried out? Will such consultation also be organised on the basis of a draft plan? Will the House be consulted at any time before the final action plan is published? I will add a question, because I confess that it is not very clear: who is the minister who is ultimately in charge of this main issue? Is it you, Mr Reynders or, eventually, the Minister of Sustainable Development?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u14	Dear colleague, after my answer, I will provide you with some documents that really refer to the scope of your question. I will also try to answer your added question about the minister(s) in charge of the matter. As a first step, I would like to remind you that the drafting of the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan takes place under the joint lead of Ministers Marghem and Reynders. However, I can inform you of the following. The National Business and Human Rights Action Plan is currently being drafted. A first stakeholder consultation took place between April and September 2014 already. I invite you to consult the results of this consultation, which are available on the Internet and even on the House's website. However, on the basis of the responses received and of a study of the existing framework, a working group considered the drafting of a first draft text which was submitted at political level in autumn 2015, in order to be the subject of a second consultation with stakeholders and the relevant advisory councils at the end of 2015. This second consultation culminated at the beginning of the year and the elements gathered on this occasion were transcribed into the draft national action plan to be submitted to the political level before the summer with a view to adaptation before the end of the year. With regard to the main lines of the national action plan, the version submitted to stakeholders during the second consultation is also available on the website of the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development, as well as on the website of the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development. Like you, in preparing my answer, I had the opportunity to read the document. This document gives an indication of the actions of the government and, certainly, of the actions the government wishes to take. The drafting of the draft action plan is the subject of consultations between the federal level and the federated entities, within the framework of the CSR (Social Responsibility of Enterprises) working group of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development. I invite you, once again, to consult the website where the conclusions and conclusions already appear. These consultations have been held at regular intervals since 2013. In addition, the National Action Plan includes actions from federal departments or services, but also from regional departments and administrations. Stakeholder consultation concerns another group of stakeholders. NGOs, businesses, trade unions and other organisations work in this area. These consultations took place at several times, particularly at key points prior to the drafting of a first draft of the action plan, and then on the basis of a first draft text. The draft action plan was also presented to a series of advisory councils, both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities. Reports on this subject are also available on the websites and online for reference. The ministers concerned will present the plan to their respective parliamentary assemblies. As I have just pointed out, this is in fact a joint responsibility between Minister Reynders and Minister Marghem, but I will ask myself more about whether, in some key areas that have not been mentioned in these documents, other departments have other responsibilities. If I may, I will keep you informed in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u15	You obviously suspect that I had already been able to read these documents. Nevertheless, there is one point you have not answered. Will this be the subject of an official deposit, discussion and debate in Parliament at any given time? I hear you're not the minister directly in charge. I will have the opportunity to discuss it again with the ministers concerned. However, I think it is important to insist that this action plan, which is still an important element, be officially tabled and debated here in Parliament. In addition, I can see from these documents that, in particular, reference is made to the carrying out of a substantive analysis or mapping aimed at mapping the rate of implementation of the 31 UN directives on business and human rights. Unfortunately, this mapping or mapping, as far as I'm concerned, I didn't find it anywhere, on any site or in any document. Nor do I believe that the organizations that have been consulted so far have been able to learn about it. That is something on which I will also have to come back to your colleagues Reynders and Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic454x.u16	All I need to do is thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions addressed to him. So he can go on holiday with a peace of mind in August.
