ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, hello to everyone, goedemorgen allemaal, good morning. This morning, the Committees on Social Affairs and the Economy are reunited on the Caterpillar dossier. We met our committee for the first time on 6 September, when we invited the social partners following the announcement of the closure of the Gosselies site. On that occasion, the Caterpillar management declined the invitation. We had several exchanges later, as well as legal opinions. We had a meeting between the management and President Bracke, in the presence of my colleague Van Quickenborne and myself. During this exchange, we were able to agree on the meeting held today. I would therefore like to welcome our guests: Mr. Thierry Hansen, Managing Director of Caterpillar Belgium, Mr. Mark Thompson, Financial Director – Mr. Thompson may answer some questions in English. You are welcome, mister Thompson – Mr.Jérome Bandry, EU Government affairs director and Mr. Erik De Leye, corporate affairs & media relations. I believe that the main points were highlighted in the discussions we had earlier. These focus mainly on three things. First of all, to know the causes, reasons and explanations of the decision taken by Caterpillar to close the Gosselies site. A second important point in our discussions concerned the maintenance of an industrial and economic activity, even partial, on the site and also the future of this enterprise, the site and the buildings. The third element concerned all the procedures under way: the Renault law, social consultation within the company. We know that there is a lot of this because work has resumed. We are obviously asking for more information on how this is happening at the moment and we would also like to know the timetable for the future of events with the social plan. Of course, other broader issues have been addressed in our debates, in particular, what industrial policy in Belgium and in Europe, the economic model. All of this can also be discussed. First of all, with my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, I would like to thank management again for accepting this meeting. There was a strong will on the part of parliamentarians to have this exchange of views and explanations so that both of us could draw the political conclusions from this issue that follows its course. Gentlemen, we thank you for being here. We will give you the floor for a first presentation on the basis of the few points I have just mentioned, after which colleagues will be able to ask questions. For a reason of delay, we will close our work at 1 p.m. I will ask speakers to limit their speaking time to 10 minutes so that they can have a reply and reply time from parliamentarians. Mr Hansen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today I rise before you in response to your invitation to give you information in person about the announcement of intention made by the Caterpillar Group on 2 September. I am accompanied by Mr Mark Thompson, Financial Director, Mr Jérôme Bandry, in charge of government relations for Europe, and Mr Erik de Leye, in charge of public relations for Europe. As a managing director, but also on behalf of local management, I can assure you that we understand and share all the emotion generated by this dramatic announcement, which affects us all, all staff, our families and, more broadly, our suppliers, the entire region and even the country. Before going any further, I would like to make it clear that we are fully committed to respecting the social dialogue and the smooth running of the procedure of information and consultation with staff representatives. It is within this framework and with these constraints imposed on us by the laws in force that I will try today to answer your questions as transparently as possible. In particular, these same constraints have led us to be unable to accept your invitation without having previously communicated sufficient information to our social partners and staff. I would like to appeal to your understanding. The announcement of September 2 was a shock to all of us, including the local leadership. It took me a little time to better understand this situation and also to better manage the emotions that it generated. I will now explain the context, content and potential implications of the Caterpillar Group's announcement of intention. First of all, a few words about the Caterpillar group. The Caterpillar Group was founded in 1925, 91 years ago, and is now the world's largest manufacturer of construction and mining equipment. It is also active in the energy and transport sector, which includes, among other things, diesel engines, natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines, diesel and electric locomotives. Finally, the group also offers financial and related services. It is present in all regions of the world. Today, the Caterpillar Group faces significant challenges. In a difficult global economic context, with weak global growth and prospects that have darkened in most of its markets, the Caterpillar Group must, for the first time in its history in 91 years, face a significant decline in its turnover over four consecutive years. To give you an idea of the extent of the impact of this situation on the group's results, it can be said that compared to 2012, the Caterpillar group expects a decrease of more than 40% in its turnover, which amounts to $27 billion, or in other words the size of the group 15 years ago. This is accompanied by a decrease in net profit of some 72%. At present, very few signals point to an improvement in this situation and the uncertainty remains great. Faced with this situation, the management of the group was forced to take drastic measures to adapt its cost structure and production resources to the new prospects. For example, in September 2015, in response to the unfavourable global economic developments, the Caterpillar Group announced an important plan to restructure and reduce costs globally. This plan runs until the end of 2018. The objective of this plan is to reduce costs by $1.5 billion per year and the production area by more than 10 per cent worldwide. Since the announcement of this plan at the end of 2015, the situation has continued to deteriorate. The group has therefore had to strengthen the restructuring plan, was forced to reduce its 2016 performance forecasts every quarter of the current year and also for the results of the third quarter 2016, which have just been announced yesterday. As I speak to you, many sites around the world have already been affected by restructuring as part of this cost reduction plan. These are almost thirty plant or building closures around the world. Twenty sites are affected in the United States. Five sites are affected outside the United States, mainly in Asia but also in Europe. And three closure intentions were announced, including, unfortunately, the latest one in Gosselies on September 2, 2016. I will now turn to the announcement that particularly affects the Gosselies site. On September 2, 2016, in conjunction with this overall plan and following an in-depth study, Caterpillar Inc.'s management, Caterpillar Group, announced its intention to reallocate production volumes from the Gosselies site to other production sites and to consolidate all service activities to other shared service sites or centres. To better understand what this means, I think you have received a sheet that illustrates the different products we manufacture on the Gosselies site, which mainly produces construction machinery. They are wheel loaders of 19 to 36 tonnes and track excavators of 30 to 90 tonnes. The site also produces components for its own needs as well as to deliver them to other plants in the group. These are hydraulic valves, gears, axles and speed reducers. We also produce mechanical-welded structures for our own products. According to the announcement of intention, most tire loaders would be entrusted to the Caterpillar plant in Grenoble, France. Excavators would be produced by existing Caterpillar plants in Japan, China and the United States. The components would be produced from external suppliers or from other Caterpillar plants. If the announcement were to be confirmed, it would involve a collective redundancies of some 2,100 employees and the closure of the Gosselies site. Faced with this announcement, we all asked ourselves why the Gosselies site. This is primarily due to the size of the site and the associated cost structure. The closure of the site would save more than $100 million per year, representing 7 per cent of the overall cost reduction target of $1.5 billion per year at the group level. It would also enable one third of the total production area reduction target to be achieved at the group level of 10%. Secondly, there is significant excess capacity at the group level in most of the sectors and regions we serve, particularly for products manufactured in Gosselies. These products can be produced in other plants in the group and delivered to Europe at costs similar to those in Gosselies, requiring only limited investment. Finally, I would like to point out that this intention does not call into question Caterpillar Gosselies' performance. We did everything in our power to position the site favourably for the future. In particular in 2013, the Gosselies management implemented an industrial plan, with the aim of restoring the competitiveness of the site, reducing costs and refocusing the site on the products for which we could be competitive. This industrial plan included a restructuring component as well as investments for more than EUR 150 million. These investments were used to modernize the site. The productivity targets established under this industrial plan were met by the end of 2015. Unfortunately, the volume prospects in force when this plan was drawn up have not materialized due to the general deterioration of the economic context, including in our industrial sector "Infrastructures, public works, construction", including in Europe. In this context, the scale of cost and capacity reductions to be achieved by the Caterpillar Group at the global level far exceeds the size of the Gosselies site. I can assure you of my willingness to do everything I can to minimize the social impact of this announcement, within the framework of my responsibilities as a managing director and the laws and procedures in force. Thank you for your attention. We are now listening to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u3	Mr Hansen, thank you for your briefing. On this basis, a document will be distributed to colleagues in the next few minutes. Thank you again for accepting this democratic exercise by coming here to debate in Parliament. Who are the colleagues who want to intervene? We will take note of it. Each will have ten minutes if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the management for the information that we feel is coming a little later than we originally wanted. I think we would all have liked to debate a number of things with you much earlier, but you are here today, so we will certainly have the debate. The politics of a company about where it places its factories and in which products it invests is a matter that does not concern us. All we have to do is to ensure that there is an open market and that it can function. I would like to ask a number of specific questions about this closure. If I see that you continued to invest massively at the peak of the market a few years ago, with the prospect of growing production, after which the opposite happened, I wonder from a business point of view what happened there at the time. More concrete about the factory of Gosselies. In 2015, there was an announcement that restructuring would take place. In September, the hatchet fell over Gosselies. You say this was a shock to you. There's something I don't understand. Either there has been a consultation round at headquarters and a study on where and how to restructure. That is impossible, I believe, without involving the local executives of all these establishments and you saw it coming. I understand that you cannot come to the press immediately or to the outside world. If not, I can't follow at all. I want to know to what extent the local management has been involved in the concrete plans. Were you consulted in that? Have you had any input in that? If a restructuring announcement is being made in September 2015, it must have raised questions, not only for you but also for the trade unions in the company. I suppose that must have been a debate on that. When I read the 2015 annual report, I only read positive news. The CEO is very positive about the future. Everything's fine. The dividend has never been this high. It is strange, however, when one finds out what happens afterwards. The question then is what one does with that pile of cash that one has as a firm. Is this used to a large extent? Closing factories also costs a lot of money. You yourself say that there is still investment in 2013. At that time, there was no negligible amount of investment. Then I wonder again whether it would be wise to write off all that money if it was lost in this case or to switch to other products. You have a very broad line, a very broad company. Then why is the same money not being invested to break through other markets with other products and with other patents? Apart from Gosselies, you still have a few branches. We would also have liked to know what is happening with this. What happens to Grimbergen, for example, with your coordination centre? What are the plans? You had to reduce a certain percentage of farm area. Gosselies, that's 7 %, then you've actually done quite a bit. Again, it seems logical to me that large, efficient factories should be kept open and possibly smaller establishments closed. Grenoble is a lot smaller than Gosselies. That will be kept open when I would think that in a large plant like Gosselies we can probably create a little more synergies, especially if we have just invested in modernisation. Anyway, the choice was finally made to close Gosselies. I would like to know what parameters have been used in America for this. Is that wage cost, is that productivity, is that expertise, is that the ability to switch to other products and so on? What, in other words, does Grenoble have more than Gosselies or why are other sites more interesting to keep open? Mr President, I will stick to my speaking time. I come to my final question. In the meantime, we're a month and a half after that announcement. You say that you can come here now because you have already had extensive talks with the social partners. How's the trial going? Could you give some insight into the process of information and consultation? Have there been any new insights? Maybe not a complete closure, maybe a plan of action that's already on the table? Could you give us a little more insight into that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u5	Mr President, gentlemen, I am pleased to finally be able to meet with you, hoping to obtain explanations as clear as possible – on this subject, I am not really worried – about what we can legitimately ask ourselves about. I suggest that you look at three things, namely the past, the present and the future. As far as the past is concerned, we are at the stage of justifying the decision taken by the group. I can hear your explanation of a bad global economic context. However, given all the tax optimisation choices you have implemented in Europe, it cannot be said that the context is particularly bad for you. Indeed, you continue to distribute dividends that are not piqued from the hannetons to your shareholders. In any event, strategic choices were made by management for the Gosselies site, including in 2013. Indeed, we do not attend the first restructuring. I therefore wonder whether – and I would like to have an explanation about this – if, already in 2013, we were not sold a cat in a bag and the group's will was already to close the above-mentioned site. You mentioned a consolidation, but also a revision of production. It is clear that the focus has been on production to Europe with much stricter standards than in the rest of the world. However, in 2013, you already knew the state of the European market. At the time, didn't you already sign Gosselies' death warrant? You said you wanted to invest 150 million euros for the sustainability of the site. Shouldn't the industrial choice have been different? Shouldn't it have been better to continue to produce, or even expand, production given that the site and production lines existed, especially since, as you said, this site was important to other sectors. You even acknowledged that in terms of productivity, cost reduction, sacrifices made by all staff, everything was met in 2015. Important explanations must therefore be given as to your industrial logic. Indeed, in my opinion, the latter is not well on the road. The first element relates to the past. In my view, all your optimisation choices and your industrial choices can be largely questioned. You probably forget the 1,400 workers that were left on the tile. We're talking about just over 2,000 workers here, but 1,400 people were still affected by a major social plan in 2013. What do you continue to do with them? Are you going to make commitments to them? Now let's talk about the present and the closing. Questions arise. You decide to close, but when will the site actually be closed? That is, when will there be no more production on the site? I believe that, not only with regard to the workers, but also with regard to the parliamentarians and the whole of public opinion, I believe that there are elements that need to be put on the table. Is it here, as of December 31, 2016? Is this June 30, 2017? Will it be December 31, 2017? I know you're in discussion with the various trade union organizations. Nevertheless, a whole series of decisions have already been taken which raise fears for the short-term future with regard to work. Beyond the pressure you can put on the machine output, for this it may be necessary to supply the site with assembly means, but normally all cleaning services, if my information is correct, will see the end of their activities in December 2016. Logistics, you've already transferred it to England. Computer management has been decentralized in the Netherlands, and for the moment it is the Arras company that delivers Grenoble, to the detriment of Gosselies. I believe that a clear and precise answer should be given to the date. Simply, a small element in relation to your choices, because it comes into play here. You're talking about Gosselies calculations, site cost structures, size etc., depending on the industrial choices that have been taken. It was clear that in 2013, it was already known that the calculations would be unfavourable to the Gosselies site, as this applied over the last few periods. And it is clear that the number of components being lower on the site, the cost structures were going to be particularly bad. Last thing to try to stay within the deadline, and so that my colleague Özlem Özen can also intervene: the reassignment tomorrow. You're making profits. They're important. You distribute a lot, indeed, to the shareholders. You said that for you, it was a tragedy, that you particularly understood the tragedy of the workers who are affected. I remind you that there are still a lot of subcontractors to whom you imposed a lot of things, including having only Caterpillar as a customer. I think we should think about it, too. So, do you think about subcontractors? What are you going to do for them? But in relation to the workers of the site, what is the social plan? What commitments are you going to make? I am not asking you to violate social consultation, but ING has, for example, come here and made social commitments, saying that they would assume the burden. In the case of Caterpillar, will commitments also be made, i.e. a substantial envelope and another substantial envelope for the conversion unit, because many workers need it? Today, no announcement is made in the head of government, saying that we will make an exception, as happened in the case of Ford Genk, to obtain pre-pensions at 52, even though the pre-pension system has changed substantially. What commitments will Caterpillar make in relation to the social impact, but also in relation to the conversion of the site? What is your own plan in relation to the site's reconversion? Are you going to implement a plan at the level of site conversion and a plan compared to the subcontractors you leave on the tile?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u6	The closure of Gosselies caused a great stir among the population, in particular, in the Caroloregian region. The comments you made and your presence suggest that you may have felt it a little late. The reasons put forward by management appear to be exclusively external. Forty percent less turnover, that's an inquisitive indicator. It is not the Gosselies site that is specifically challenged, it is external and global constraints that seem to determine this situation. On the contrary, Gosselies seems to have respected all of its objectives. I have seven questions to ask management. The first concerns the strategy put in place. Products made for a number of years in Gosselies are at the forefront in terms of environmental standards. We have specialized them for Tier 4 standards. It is a deliberate choice of the company to specialize Gosselies for this product. Tier 4 products have not achieved the desired success at the global level. So, did management voluntarily specialize in the site, hoping that we would generalize Tier 4 at the global level? And, in this case, it was a way of putting Gosselies' point, if that standard were generalized. Or, on the contrary, knowing very well that this standard was not going to be generalized, it was a way of de facto condemning the site, knowing that this more expensive product would eventually be put to great competition by other products of Caterpillar or other companies working in the same niche. So, was this deliberate choice meant to be globalized or was it meant to sink the site? Has Gosselies volunteered to produce this Tier 4 standard or, on the contrary, has it been imposed by the US leadership? The second question concerns profitability. We know that tire loaders are going to be produced in Grenoble, but it is understood that other products will be produced in China. We can understand that there are differences in the cost of production, but in Grenoble we are, I believe, on identical production costs. So can you give me figures on the difference in profitability between the Grenoble production site and the Gosselies production site? In this regard, is there a significant differential to justify this transfer? Or have other criteria led to the preference of Grenoble in Gosselies? My third question concerns the ease of dismissal. One hears or reads in the press that in Belgium it would be easy to lay off in a massive manner. This is not the feeling that we have when we read the legislation. So, can you tell me if the legislation in terms of ease or method of dismissal has had an impact on your choice? Furthermore, have the changes in pre-pension legislation also had an impact on your decision? My fourth question concerns subcontractors. It is clear that this problem is even more complicated since subcontractors are between two waters and are not directly involved in the procedure, even if they are, because they are going to lose their jobs. What do you intend to do about them? How many exactly are there? Have you ever done a specific survey? Do you intend to compensate those who work at your subcontractors? Fifth question. With regard to the Renault procedure – but my colleague has already asked the question – can you give us an update on its implementation, in particular in terms of consultation with the trade unions and of the various elements that would be put on the table? Question 6: Are there any other elements? You mentioned only external elements, including the decrease in turnover. Are there other elements specific to Belgium or specific to Gosselies that have prompted the choice to close this site? Is there no local element that pushed this choice? If so, can you give us some examples? With regard to the future of the site, are you ready, to allow a reconstruction, a rebound in the Gosselies region, to make a gesture on this site that could perhaps be recycled for other purposes? In this regard, you should be able to understand and put oil in the workings for this site to be used for good purposes in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u7	Thank you, Mr. Clarinval. So far, I welcome the brevity of each speaker!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u8	Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Hansen. It is a very sad and painful finding that it was announced that 2 100 workers could be affected in their income and in their job security. Those involved have made future plans on the basis of their income, may have taken out loans and so on. So that is particularly painful for them. For policy-makers, it is even more frustrating to note that in the past efforts had already been requested from those workers, which they have also done. The objectives pursued by the management were always achieved thanks to these efforts, including in terms of competitiveness, for example. Our second reason of frustration is that, although we are pursuing a general policy of maintaining and creating jobs, for which people are being called on to make a global effort, we are at the same time finding that for the Caterpillar Group, as you are organised, the dividend continues to increase. We are trying to spread the effort fairly, but compared to the Caterpillar Group, the ratio has become distorted. I have listened to your introduction very carefully. You state as a reason that this has to do with la structure du coût. I would like to get some more explanation about this, because the cost structure is a container concept. Perhaps you could explain this more, because I would also like to learn lessons from your actions. A second reason you describe sounds a little frustrating, because you say that you can easily achieve 7% of the saving objective. That's actually one of the main reasons you're saying. You can easily achieve 7 % savings, so do so. Hence my next question, which was also put by other colleagues. I understand that you still have capacity left in Grenoble, which will transfer the activities from Gosselies to Grenoble, as that work volume can still be handled there. Is that the only reason? How does that relate to your explanation of the cost structure? What exactly does it have to do with logistics, subcontracting, wage costs? I would have liked to have heard more about that. You decide to say that you want to do your utmost to minimise the social impact.Can you make this concrete? What can we expect? I trust that you will respect the social dialogue provided for in the regulations. I'll expect a little more. What will the Caterpillar Group do about this, not only in the dialogue, but also in the form of financial incentives towards employees and suppliers? There are a lot of suppliers involved. Are they included in the social plan negotiated with workers' representatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u9	I, for my part, would like to thank the board for being here. I am surprised that you were unable to explain the international context at the beginning of September. That was a missed opportunity. You'd have done better in the old days. You claim that you lost 40% of your turnover in four years. There are always people who say that the economy has to function in a different way. If you lose 40% of your turnover, you need to change your business unless you nationalize your business and think you can do it differently. That is the harsh reality and a company must adapt to it. I'm looking for the other reasons that make Gosselies the victim of your decision. To what extent does the social climate play a role? In the last 15 months, I read that there have been no less than 18 strikes in that company. Was that part of the decision? Has the social climate ever been mentioned in the board of directors of Caterpillar Inc.? Someone from the union said that the company made a strategic mistake by focusing on the famous type of Tier 4, the ecologically friendly machines that greatly reduced Gosselies' market share. Is that accusation true? Was that a conscious choice? Or were there other reasons why you ended up with Tier 4? Was there at some point a problem with the competitiveness of the Gosselies plant? Has it always been competitive or have there been times when that was not the case? In that case, please explain exactly what was going on there. My second set of questions concerns the company itself. Has your company received subsidies from the Belgian government, from the Länder or from local authorities? How much taxes and contributions has your company paid in recent years? What was the effective corporate tax rate? In other words, what has your company been paying corporate tax in recent years? Some claim it was 3 %. I would like to know what you have to say about that. Questions were also asked about the relationship between your company and Caterpillar Switzerland. Some claim that there was a massive operation to swindle profits from Belgium to Switzerland. Are those allegations true? What contractual relationship do you have with the company in Switzerland? Is there an agreement on costs? I'd like some explanation on that. I also have a question for Mr. Thompson. I will ask it in English. A lot of the discussion has been concentrated on the dividend policy of the company. I understand you are the financially responsible person for Caterpillar. Is that true?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u10	I am in the finance organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u11	I would like to question you on the dividend policy of the company. Is it true that there has been an increase of the dividend of the company during the last few years? If not, what has been the dividend policy? Secondly, some of our colleagues have suggested that a company like Caterpillar could easily lower its dividend or maybe for just one year not give a dividend. What would be the effect of not giving a dividend or lowering the dividend on the market value of the company? What would be the effect on the capacity of the company? Finally, I would like to ask a number of questions about the current situation. I understand that the factory is still active at the moment, of course, pending the full conclusion of the social dialogue. Can you tell me if there is sufficient production and dispatch? At what level does that happen? Is there a good social understanding at the moment, despite the difficulties faced by people, so that the plant can operate at a certain level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Caterpillar, I would like to thank you for your presence, although we all expected you a little earlier, namely right after the closure. I don't think it was a good decision not to come back then. You explained that you wanted all the information first. That is one element, but I think you could have said most of what you are saying at the time. That could have avoided a lot of commotion. Anyway, you are here to answer our questions, reservations and sighs, for which I sincerely thank you. I believe that all of us, not least the employees of Caterpillar Gosselies, are very hung over about the way everything happened. If I understand you correctly, Mr Hansen, you say that no one expected this. For you, too, it was a jaw blow, you said, especially for the workers. Then, of course, the question remains: why? How did it happen? I'm just gonna get all the data straightened out. You say it is mainly due to external factors, including the global underutilisation of the site. However, if one looks at the objective economic factors for the Gosselies site, one cannot understand why one has just endorsed that site and why it will have to close. You yourself referred to the fact that many flexibilisation measures were taken in 2013 following restructuring. You also said that in 2015 all the objectives set out in the restructuring plan were achieved. All productivity objectives and cost management objectives had reached Caterpillar. The location of the site is also optimal. The under-utilisation, which is used as an argument, could be overcome through temporary unemployment. However, it would also disappear quickly if infrastructure were to be re-invested. So it remains very unclear why the headquarters chose that site. I am not sure, but perhaps you can confirm once again that a week before the announcement of the intention to close the works council, it was confirmed that all the objectives and objectives set in 2013 were even more than achieved. They weren't just picked up; it was even more than that. Once again, the question remains why this site was chosen. I come to my next question. Is it true that profits have always remained positive and that dividends paid have doubled since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008? This statement is mentioned in several articles. Is this theorem correct? It should also be borne in mind that the company enjoyed all possible RSZ discounts and that the coordination centre had to pay only 6% of corporate taxes via the notional income deduction and not 3%, as previously claimed. Can you confirm that number or deny it? Is it true that due to the double taxation agreement with Switzerland, where the sales department is located, there were some favourable tax arrangements? Trade unions suggested that one of the reasons why the Gosselies site was chosen is that in Belgium the dismissal right still lays down few requirements, provided that compensation is paid. We have already noticed in the past that this scheme is one of the reasons why multinationals choose Belgium for their location rather than another country. Was that one of the motives to opt for the closure of the Gosselies site? What's to be done now? My fellow Members have already asked whether you have a date for the effective, final closure. What plan is there to work towards that closing date? Can you tell us a little more about the social dialogue with the trade unions? You have finished your speech with the promise that you will do everything in your power to minimise the social consequences. I'd be happy to believe you in that, but what plan does the board have for that? What commitments can you make here, as far as we are concerned? What roadmap will be drawn up for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u13	Mr President, we are almost two months after the sudden announcement of the closure and I must tell you that, as a Member of Parliament for the Charleroi region, I have still not found a credible explanation. I expected you to be able to present us with something clear, transparent, encrypted. And when I read the elements of your speech, I wonder. You explain the choice of the Gosselies site by saying "because of the size of the site". My first question, therefore, is whether there are other sites of similar size or even larger size that could have been equally well targeted. This question, I supplement it with a request from those inside the company who were defending the Gosselies site, at the time when the choice of the sites was to be discussed in the United States. What arguments did they use? Why did these arguments not make, while, as far as Gosselies is concerned, – and that is also in your remarks today and that is where the decision made is really scandalous – the objectives that had been assigned to the site have been achieved. So, somewhere in the United States, we decide to sanction a site that has achieved the goals you have assigned to it. When I say "you," it may be the people in charge in the United States, but it is you who are in front of us today. This is what allowed Olivier Chastel, who is not here this morning, to say that the attitude was scandalous. I'm joining him. I regret that he is not here today, but I agree with him on this point. Caterpillar Gosselies' performances – and this is your speech today – are not called into question. The site is competitive. You say that the products will be made on other sites "at similar costs", which does not mean that you will gain much. And "meaning investments": you will have to make some investments, even if they will be limited. I do not understand and I still do not have an explanation on the choice of the Gosselies site as a target, especially since in 2013 it had already undergone strong restructuring. At the time, I was involved not as a Member of Parliament but as a regional minister. At that time, we had gone to the officials and we had already proposed to be able to use part of this huge site to develop other activities in the parts already liberated from Caterpillar's own activities. But at the time, you refused to open the site and use it for other things; you could have imagined a progressive redeployment even over a longer term but already using the freed space. Today, one of the arguments used is the size of the site. It is for me an inconsistency, even a lie of 2013 in relation to the real intentions that were already existing at the time. This hurts, because it affects 2,500 families directly and 6,000 or 7,000 indirectly – let's not forget the subcontractors – that we could have incorporated into a redeployment plan if, by 2013, we could have imagined the situation you were heading towards. With regard to this initial reflection, I would like you to be very specific in giving these elements, including the numbers and documents that target Gosselies without giving an alternative, and that show that you fought to do so and that you gave that and that argument. Secondly, why at no time did you consider it appropriate to warn the political authorities? In Belgium, we have undergone, and are still undergoing, major economic restructuring. Other companies than yours have made decisions that impact Belgian families. But I read that the Prime Minister said that he had never been informed before and that, when he asked for more information, Caterpillar refused to give it. This can be found in the newspaper L'Echo on Saturday, September 3. I link this with the fact that it took you so long to come and explain to Parliament. I think you have a problem with the politicians. Say it and see how it can be improved, even if it's probably too late for Gosselies! I do not understand this blocking attitude towards politics. And to take refuge behind the Renault law, which would prevent this... The parliamentary services sent you all the legal demonstrations twice, demonstrating that there was no prohibition, no impossibility of coming to speak and giving more explanations. Whether it is with regard to parliament or the government, you have lacked courtesy, and the word is weak. I would ask you for an explanation on this point too. Thirdly, with regard to dividends, I have looked at the figures of recent years, but we can also look at them by making a longer projection. In five years, while earnings per share decreased by half – from $7.64 in 2011 to 3.54 in 2015 –, dividends paid per share increased by 65% – from $1.82 in 2011 to 3.01 in 2015. In other words, while less than 41% of the profit was distributed in 2011, this percentage rose to 85% in 2015, although the economic situation has deteriorated – these are your own terms. What is the choice behind this? It is clear: until the end, distribute dividends; even until it is no longer economically and financially justifiable and justified. Second, the adjustment variables are workers. Today, those of Gosselies; probably others tomorrow. Maybe you'll tell me it's not you, it's the United States. However, I would like at least one of you to assume this logic before us and explain it to us in terms of policy choices, not industrial, but financial, when we see the figures that are being developed here. Fourthly, you have hardly talked about it, it is the way in which you have locked the Gosselies site with the internal relations of the Caterpillar group, in particular the role of Switzerland, so that any added value creation will be relocated – and not just for tax reasons. Of course, probably for such reasons; I am not fooled. In doing so, you have emptied the Gosselies site of its substance and its ability to be really heavy in the device. I am disappointed, but not surprised that you did not touch a word of that in your presentation. This is what the unions have called here the "death sandwich", a mechanism that you have clearly controlled very well. Finally, I would like to look, despite everything, to the future. Here you have taken up the terms of the Renault law: "announcement of an intention to close". Do you believe for a moment or do you leave open the possibility that this announcement of intention will not materialize? Is there any chance that this intention will be reversed, or is it merely a statement hanging on to the law, which, in your opinion, does not allow you to say anything else? I wish you had the honesty of being clear and not turning around the pot. If there is no more chance then obviously comes the question of how to reduce the social impact and participate in the redeployment. Are you going to monetize the site? We know that it is strategically located – I don't have to draw anyone, at least not the Carolos who are in the audience: the heart of Wallonia, near the motorways and the airport, etc. Others might be interested in the site itself but if you put sticks in the wheels for this redeployment after closing the site, I think that could pose further difficulties to offer a future not only to Caterpillar workers but also to subcontractors. I hope that on this aspect you will at least be able to make a minimum of commitments here so that we are not in a situation where everything is postponed to later and you will no longer be present to justify other difficulties in the redeployment. I apologise for the hardness of my remarks at times, but I also live as a resident of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u14	Gentlemen, thank you for your briefing. As a boredom, I experienced this as a real earthquake both for Charleroi and for the entire province of Hainaut since it affects the workers of Caterpillar but also, more broadly, many subcontractors. The way in which the events took place, the brutality and violence of the announcement really appeared to be a total lack of respect for workers, for their families, for subcontractors, and even more generally, for Belgian citizens. This is all the more so since you yourself praised the major efforts previously made by the workers and stressed how much the objectives you set for them had been achieved. All this results in the announcement of a massive lay-off and a real earthquake. It should be noted that significant efforts have been made more comprehensively by all Belgian citizens but also by the other Belgian companies. Indeed, when you carried out a restructuring in 2013, Caterpillar costs were outsourced, whether in terms of pre-pension or unemployment care. I will allow myself to quote Étienne de Callataÿ: "The first obligation of companies is to respect all the components of society (environment, employees, workers, consumers, customers) with which they interact." I particularly agree with Etienne de Callataÿ. If I may say so, this respect here has been sorely missed. The announcement was made, a little over six weeks ago, and I hear your explanation of the 41% reduction in turnover, which you expect to see. Are these 41% a global reduction? If so, I would like to know how these 41 per cent are spread across all of your sites around the world. In particular, I would like to know the evolution of turnover for the Gosselies site but also for the Grenoble site. On the other hand, this obviously does not happen overnight. In an efficient, rigorous and professional management of a company, we do not realize the figures all at once. We wake up one morning and say "our turnover is collapsing". A communication was made yesterday or the day before yesterday on the results in decrease of the third quarter 2016 on the forecasts for 2017. At the same time, in recent years at least - this is the information we have been able to get to know of - the dividends have never declined. On the basis of this information, they have even continued to increase. So, of course, there is a gulf between what you are justifying today on this decline in turnover and at the same time a policy within the company that has continued to focus heavily on dividends, even though there may have been other things to do internally at the strategic level to obviously anticipate - and this sometimes actually involves reinvestments - to anticipate this reduction in expected turnover. You are talking about reallocating production volumes, I quote, "from the Gosselies site to other production sites". We've heard about China and Grenoble. I'd like to focus for a moment on Grenoble. Why, basically, have you chosen to reallocate these volumes of Gosselies production to Grenoble and not the other way around? Has this been prepared for a long time? What will tomorrow's activities be on Grenoble? What about the order books which, today, are on the Gosselies site, machines currently in the process of being assembled? Since you spoke, Mr. Thompson, I'm quoting you in an excerpt from the press. You said, at the time of the announcement, in this hotel in Nivelles, that you wanted to produce elsewhere, at a lower cost. To my knowledge, the cost of labour in Grenoble - I do not know the cost of production in Grenoble - is relatively similar to that of Belgium. I would also like to know whether you had, unlike Belgium, since we were told that you had no contact with the governments before the announcement, neither the Walloon nor the Federal Government had any contact with the French Government. In other words, if I may say so, have there been any prior contacts with the French government to attract the Gosselies site to the Grenoble site rather than the other way round? There is a kind of race for the stallion, internally, at European level, which is quite unpleasant, first and foremost for the people concerned, but ultimately, for the European project. So I would like to make it clear, as we know for Belgium, about the potential contacts between Caterpillar European, global, French and the French government. I would also like us to stop for a moment on subcontractors, since the impact on them is at least as important as the impact on workers. Could you clarify the number of external subcontractors and the number of internal subcontractors? As far as internal subcontractors are concerned, I would like to know their working conditions. Are the working conditions of internal subcontractors the same as those of Caterpillar employees? I would like to know whether you have had social inspections in the last year, and in particular social inspections on the issue of subcontractors. Finally, your liability for subcontractors is not negligible. So I'd like to know what you're going to do for the subcontractors. Last question before concluding: the stakes of the field. The entire Caterpillar Gosselies site is a major challenge for the future of the region, for the economic deployment of the region. In the plan that you have drawn up over the last few months, well before September 2, because it is not something that is done overnight, with a spoon to pot, and which is conceived in 24 hours, I cannot imagine that there has not been in-house a plan that has also been drawn up for the land, for the site. I would like you to express your views on what you have planned for this land and this site. Finally, it is important to know the status of discussions with workers' representatives, but I would really like to hear you on the alternatives on the table. Because, when I hear you say that you are going to do everything you can to reduce the social impact of this announcement, it appears to me as a reflection of an abandonment. Not at all like that of a real search for alternatives to save jobs. The big question is whether or not, today you are really looking at whether jobs can be saved and activities maintained in Caterpillar Gosselies. Your responsibility is also, in relation to that, to have an honest and transparent speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u15	I don't know if I should thank you for coming, gentlemen. Because it's a little late. We'd rather welcome you right after the announcement. First question. Mr Bandry, you said you couldn't come, I think it was you too who spoke about the fact that there was a problem with the Renault law. On the other hand, we had instructed the services of the House to analyse the situation. Has your opinion changed? Does your arrival prompt you to say that there is no incompatibility with the Renault law? Can you explain this change of mind? To get to the bottom of the case, we will return to the restructuring of 2013 where some machines have already been removed from production in Charleroi. Have you ever decided on a strategy to close the Gosselies site? Many analysts and staff representatives ask themselves a lot of questions about the big strategic mistakes that have been made. You don't have to be honest, but try a little! Within the group, was there a discussion in 2013 about the closure of the Gosselies site? As a matter of political and personal information, Mr Hansen, I would be interested in knowing how a multinational group such as that would internally inform its representative here in Belgium of such a reform. Have you all suffered... Finally, what kind of communicational violence exists? Finally, we feel a little bit like you didn't know much about it. Could you perhaps give us a witness? Politically, it is interesting to see a little bit of how, within such a company, we finally communicate this type of decision. Or had this already been discussed a little in advance? Can you shed some light on this kind of question? Thirdly, much has been said about the cost structure. Many notes circulated in the company. Verbal communications were given by the Belgian management, by the control and at the level of the company which indicated that, in terms of productivity and cost of production, the site was ultimately more competitive even than production in China, obviously taking account of transport. Would it be possible to deliver a little – because in the end, we don't have them – the comparison figures between sites to find out what's going on? What are the production costs, the transport costs? Can we have some transparency about what is happening at the different sites because, for the moment, none of this information is circulating. Fourthly, in terms of the group's strategy, a lot of colleagues have spoken about this strategy of constantly increasing dividends. Allow me to quote your CEO in 2012 in Las Vegas, Mr. Oberhelman. I quote it because I find it is finally quite explicit about the group's strategy: "In the scenario of a 15% drop in sales, we guarantee a profit of $6 profit per share". In 2012! "In the event of a recession with a drop of 38.5 per cent, as in 2009, we commit to a profit of $3.5 per share. As soon as growth returns, the 2020 targets will again be honoured with maximum profit for shareholders." I stress "maximum". "Our goal: $20 per action in 2018-2020. If necessary, we are ready to reapply the 2009 measures." As a reminder to my colleagues, the 2009 measures were to dismiss more or less one third of the staff in two months. Various colleagues have already taken up this desire to increase, year after year,... If I have understood correctly, for 22 years, dividends have been constantly increased. It's a bit naive, but wouldn't another option today have been not to increase the dividends and stop this real capital flight a little bit? Finally, in a company, you make profits, but it's so much capital that comes out. You know that capital flight is something that worries us a lot about the PTB. Could this flight of capital out of the company not be stopped and the dividends could not be reduced to maintain a production tool? That would seem interesting to me. Despite the decline in your sales, you are constantly increasing your dividends – twenty-two years in a row! Last year, there was an increase of 10%. Fifth question, at the tax level. Of course, no party has put forward the 3% for the entire group. You have to be able to read. You know your own numbers. I think it's the Vld we can't read them. In recent years, ISOC's rate is more or less 23% for the different sites in Belgium, which is basically a 10% tax rebate. We would all love to be able to reduce our personal taxes. Could you say what this tax reduction has allowed us to make as investments? What, in the end, did these unpaid capitals go to the government? Instead, we're going to talk about the financial branch of your group, which had paid less than 5%. This is a debate on the coordination centres. Your group was one of the first to use it. Since the European Union had no longer been in agreement, it had been necessary to reform them, in particular through notional interests. But 5% was not much for this financial subsidiary. Then a letter circulated. I don't think she's very confidential anymore. Mr Hansen, your international leadership is not very nice. Maybe your colleagues will say that. You have received a letter saying: "At your request, our society..." So it is in relation to the small problems of production that there is currently in a difficult emotional setting, since people are told that it is the end of their professional life in Caterpillar; some have worked there for more than twenty years. I quote the letter: "At your request, our company has continued to be patient until today so that you can continue the discussions that you have been engaged in for some time with the unions and staff representatives". In the continuation of the letter, you are hardly threatened if the production does not resume properly. I quote: "If one of these conditions..." Basically, the condition is that, "for Monday, October 10th, shipments of machinery and components resume and Caterpillar Belgium reach an acceptable level of production (70%), that the machines that are produced can be shipped continuously. If this does not happen, the issuing of new orders by our company will be suspended as long as your company continues to fail to comply with its contractual obligations." Your leadership is threatening you because of the existing social difficulties. I wish I'd known how you felt about that. Do you find it normal for us to make such threats, to be ready to remove the little production that will remain in the coming months, to force normal production to continue? I find these threats rather morally foolish. I wish you had come back to this question. There you go. This is a fairly specific set of questions. I hope that you will be able to enlighten us, because as you know, as Members, we are very concerned about this social massacre that we will know about in Charleroi. You know the structuring role your company had in the region. I will end with one final question: what could make you change your mind? This is a question that many workers' representatives, a large part of civil society, and a part of political society are asking themselves. In your opinion, what can public authorities do, what do they need to do to change your mind? We believe that the profits of a few shareholders should go beyond the welfare of all workers in the Charleroi and Belgium region. We want to persevere and force you to keep this production at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u16	Mr. Chairman, I have three questions to ask management. Gentlemen, I would like to ask you whether you confirm that the closure of the Gosselies site is purely financial. Secondly, do you confirm that your decision is not linked to our social legislation or to the relations with the social partners? Finally, I would really like to understand the motivation behind this decision. Besides the reduction plan decision, which I will not allow myself to contest, why did you choose to sacrifice Gosselies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u17	Gentlemen, after almost two months of waiting following the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar, you are finally before us, in numbers, to give explanations to the parliamentarians who have urged you, since 2 September, to come and introduce you. The politeness would like me to thank you for your presence. However, I do not want to thank you, even if I am polite. I felt contempt on your part for the workers first and for the parliamentarians. You said it took you two months to figure it out. Two months to understand and come and explain in ten minutes... Two pages in ten minutes, it's not very profitable, especially for a company and a company that has so many legal resources and services. You could have presented us with a much more detailed note on the reasons for this closure. If it took you two months to figure it out, I can imagine how the workers are. First of all, on the form - it has been mentioned enough in our previous committees - we have come to announce the news in a language they do not even understand, in English! An Englishman with a very special accent that even the translator could not translate! Once again, it's contempt. In 2013, the restructuring, the lay-offs of 1,400 workers and all the families that were affected, all the efforts and sacrifices made (more flexibility, loss of wages, loss of recovery days, Saturday work with an impact on privacy) made it possible to achieve the financial objectives. The union delegate who came to testify here in early September even told us that they had accepted the inacceptable, union delegate's memoir. I understand that the sacrifices have been made but that this is still not enough to sustain the company and that it is a global stock market decision. The goal is to sustain this company that still continues to make $550 million in profits, just in the second quarter of 2016! For me, it's not good to say that it's $100 billion in savings a year if we close Caterpillar. If you have also put forward the argument of the size of the company, why not then reduce the activity or resell a small part of the buildings and keep the site and the workers who have know-how? Above all, why not keep an infrastructure worthy of NASA with state-of-the-art equipment, as we heard here during our auditions? Why simply chose this most radical solution before considering other possibilities of conversion, sale, maintenance of activities and know-how, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Of course, if we don't maintain the site, do you realize the impact on the entire region? It is also imperative, as my colleague has said, to provide for a very substantial social envelope. Indeed, the 2,200 people to be reassigned to which all subcontractors are added, in other words, these 6 to 7,000 people will not return to work overnight. As chairman of the CPAS de Charleroi, my colleague will be able to tell you. So they're going to have to go knock on the door of the CPAS who are going to have to deal with all this. A very large social envelope will therefore be necessary. In addition, in your study showing that Gosselies is not viable, have you taken into account the costs of dismantling and remediating the site? In other words, have you integrated these costs? As has already been said, the staff have made countless efforts. I am thinking in particular of economic unemployment. Will he benefit from a return to these sacrifices made for many years? I would also like to point out that Caterpillar has, for years, received subsidies for training organised internally or externally at the level of IFAPME. Can this money be recovered to be reintegrated into a social envelope? In any case, it is important to provide a substantial social envelope, commensurate with the sacrifices made by the workers. You said that it was important, in your opinion, to follow the Renault procedure, that we should be transparently informed, etc. For my part, I hope that you will respond clearly and directly to all the questions that have been asked to you today. Indeed, if the parliamentarians we are need to understand the reasons for the decision taken to shut down the company, that is the case even more with the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u18	Mr President, gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for having responded to our invitation. I would like to ask you five questions. For several years, there has been a decrease in the demand for large equipment manufactured in Gosselies. Is this due to a decrease in the demand for this type of equipment at the global level or is this due to the fact that Gosselies production has been limited to European, African and Middle East markets? I move on to a second question, in connection with the first. The factory had become oversized. Fixed costs, which were significant, had to be allocated to less production. The production of the equipment was therefore increasingly expensive. So it was an evil web. We should have moved this integrated plant, which is an old concept, to a plant where we would have made more components, made more assembly. In multinationals, it would seem that if we want to ensure the sustainability of a factory in a country, management must have a real capacity to act on the company's strategy. Apparently, in Gosselies, that wasn't supposed to be the case. Could you possibly tell us more? Thirdly, with regard to the actual rate of work, i.e. working time actually worked in relation to theoretical hours, it appears that this rate has never been good on the Gosselies site. Could you tell us if it played a part in the decision to shut down the factory? The fourth question concerns the price of energy. In Belgium, energy would seem to cost more than in the surrounding countries. Was energy an important part of the costing of the products you manufacture? Have you taken this into account in your decision to close the plant? Fifthly, what is Caterpillar SARL's role, which is a subsidiary under Swiss law, appears to be acting as a principal in relation to the Charleroi plant through a service contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u19	I'm going to be very brief, Mr. Hansen. Colleagues had a lot of questions to ask, a lot of comments to say, it's a democratic exercise and, in any case, I would like to thank you again for being willing to do that with your colleagues. The main issues are in line with the three themes I mentioned at the introduction of this exchange of views. I would like to go back to two or three specific elements. On the announcement of the intention for a decision, I note the question asked by a colleague, whether, in your opinion, and according to the timetable of the Renault law, this announcement will become a firm and definitive decision in the head of the multinational Caterpillar? Do you think, according to the information in your possession, whether or not it is an irrevocable decision? In other words, is there any hope, however thin it may be, that partial activity will be maintained in Gosselies? At the same time, in your dialogue with the social partners, are there any alternatives proposed, either by you, as the management of Gosselies, or by the representatives of the trade unions or by other bodies? Are there alternatives on the table? I believe that some colleagues have also wanted to know this, because, as I have already told you, for our Committees on the Economy and Social Affairs, which include employment, it is clear that economic activity and employment are essential in the head of politicians and public policies. Second point, the future of the site. As we've heard, this factory is exceptional. A representative of the trade unions told us that it was a jewel and that was also mentioned by Mrs Özen. This land also has a very strategic location. It is very large, nearly 100 hectares, 25 of which are covered, are currently built. So it is perfectly compatible to partially maintain an activity and to see on this site whether other activities, from subcontractors or others, could or could not be maintained and developed. Do you have any contact with the Walloon Region or with the local authorities on the future of this site? There are also at Charleroi level, economic bodies, intercommunals, a strategic development committee. Are there any prospects, initiatives, proposals to maintain an activity on the site? This is the second important aspect. A third aspect I want to mention is social consultation. Now, where are you? You've had several meetings with the workers. This is followed by the press of course. We have a certain amount of information. What are you doing, for example, in the first phase of the Renault law procedure, in terms of informing workers? Did you give them figures, precise data, a certain amount of information? Where are we with that? Similarly, what is the situation, and this has been noted by a colleague, in the debate on productions and deliveries? It is true that today, activity takes place in an emotional context that can be understood. Workers do not know what their future will be; they have before them unemployment, the loss of their jobs. You can understand that. How is the consultation going in this respect? Is there an agreement, a consensus? Is this happening correctly, allowing you to continue the activity? It's also important for subcontractors. As long as we work, subcontractors also work. This is a fairly important point today. I also note the issue of threats. Is there a threat from the company from Switzerland on this production and delivery element? These are some points of attention that I wanted to come back to. I think that sums up many of the speeches made by colleagues. Without further delay, Mr Hansen, I give you and your colleagues the floor. There are requests for information from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your many questions and for your interest in this difficult situation. I will try to answer this, certainly in all honesty, I can assure you, and as far as possible with transparency but still remain within the framework of the laws in force and particularly the procedure of information-consultation of the Renault law. I would like to assure you of my great respect and respect for this House. We must also respect the laws in force in that country and we must also respect social dialogue. I would like to repeat, on this point, what I said in my introduction. I fully understand that you expected to see us earlier. However, we had to provide sufficient information in the information-consultation phase. We've already had four meetings. On the basis of the opinions we have from different firms – I know that you have also taken your views – we felt that it was now possible for us to come and speak before you, with the only constraint that I will not be able to give information that has not already been given to our works council and staff representatives. I will answer your many questions, but in order to structure, I propose to follow what you have proposed, Mr President, and to go first into history. There are a lot of questions about the past. What's our story? I will go back a little bit to the framework of the announcement of intention and then see how the situation on site is going, social consultation and the prospects for the future. Before I talk about history, I would like to make a point about what several of you have raised as questions about our structure, our service contract with a Swiss company and our level of taxation in particular. Here I have some official figures that I want to share. On the Gosselies site, we have three legal entities of Caterpillar. If we consider the whole, we have not received any subsidies since 2002, when we received 3 million for computer equipment. On the other hand, we have no specific aid and have not requested any specific financial regulation from the tax authorities. We have implemented the laws and tax systems in force in the country and, in this context, have benefited from the benefits envisaged. Through them, we have resorted to economic unemployment – I will return to it in my reply on the history of the company – for which a "business" contribution is also increased and which has enabled us to save jobs for years. We have received training assistance worth around €70,000 per year. In the context of paid educational leave, we also receive amounts in the order of 700,000 euros per year. We also benefit from load reductions for teamwork. Unfortunately, this advantage has been very limited since 2014, as we have few team work left. We have finally benefited from notional interests. In conclusion, at the level of the three legal entities Caterpillar on the Gosselies site, if we go back to 2008, we contributed EUR 500 million in taxes and social charges to the public authorities. The latest figure for 2015 is EUR 41.8 million. There are different ways to calculate it, but since 2008, the average tax rate has been 26.2%. If you consider the last five years, it was 27%. For 2015, it is 27.1% and 33% for the production unit. With regard to our structure and our service contract, the Caterpillar Gosselies site is indeed a manufacturing or production centre. We are governed by a service contract with a Swiss company which is Caterpillar SARL. Caterpillar SARL is our sole customer. This contract is fully in line with OECD standards as we, as a manufacturing entity, have no impact on the market conditions surrounding us and on the volumes. The contract provides for an annual profit independent of the volumes produced. I can also tell you that, in recent years, we have been going through major crises, particularly in 2009 when we had to face a very large recession and much smaller volumes. Nevertheless, Caterpillar SARL has supported and financed our activities, thanks to the investments I mentioned, but also by assuming the market risks, especially during the recession periods, and the restructuring costs that were ours in 2013. It has even suffered losses on the products we manufacture. With regard to the profits recorded under this contract, in 2015 the Gosselies website made a profit of EUR 23 million. I would now like to go back to the various themes that have been discussed, to make a little history and to trace the facts. First of all, we have been fighting for the survival of the Gosselies plant for years. When I say "we", I think of local management but also all the staff. I want to associate everyone here. We have been making efforts to give ourselves a future for years. Very quickly, I'm still going to go through some important crises that we've been through. You know there was the crisis of 2009. As we are in a cyclical industry, in 2009, we really reached levels of activity that were extremely low. So we have had to adapt over these years. Our structure actually dates back to 1965. The plant was set up that year to serve the growing European market. Mr. Delizée and others alluded to our 100 hectares of surface – 25 hectares under roof, three production buildings. It is therefore an extremely important structure. Every time we had to try to adapt to the circumstances to try to ensure our survival. Then we had the 2013 industrial plan. I'd like to go back. I know it's hard to understand and explain. So I will try not to be too long and give you the essential elements of this plan. In the continuity of 2009, we had gone through the crisis, thanks in particular to economic unemployment or to the credit-time for employees. Someone said we had no contact with the authorities. I think that, when necessary, we have always tried to have contact with the Belgian authorities to ask, where relevant, for support. In 2012, the market outlook was positive: in Europe, growth – moderate, but still growth – and, globally, emerging markets, particularly China, Latin America, with rather phenomenal growth prospects. In Gosselies, the problem was our lack of competitiveness. We had already lost several products and were losing key products and key markets, which was really going to put our future at risk. The first thing I would like to clarify is the situation and context of the machines called "Tier 3" and "Tier 4". In other words, they meet more stringent and demanding environmental standards and are intended for conventional Western markets: North America, Europe (not including Russia), Japan and South Korea. These are the markets for these more advanced products. In those years 2012-2013, we actually had a split of our products with less advanced products that were called "Tier 3" or even lower for all other markets. The reason why we focused on more advanced products is not a decision of local management. This is a consequence of our non-competitiveness in the markets for which less developed products were intended. The other problem, which was going to make us lose part of our business (50%), is that in addition to that, we had a serious competitiveness problem in the European market, which is still our core market. The strategy at that time and the industrial plan was to do everything possible to first restore our competitiveness in the European market. That was our primary goal. It was very difficult and even impossible to compete in the more distant markets if we were not already competitive on the European market, taking into account the costs of transporting and importing machines into Europe. In other words, what could give us competitiveness on the market was this differential in transport and import costs needed to transport machines from other factories to Europe. Within the framework of this plan, cost and productivity targets have been defined which should have enabled us to achieve this level of competitiveness in Europe, including transport costs. Second, there were volume assumptions that were those of the time. Today, we are told that we are competitive. No, what we are saying is that we have actually achieved the objectives we were given which were productivity objectives. Now, the big problem and probably the main cause of our presence here in front of you is that these volume assumptions have not materialized and have been significantly revised downwards, year after year. This means that the fixed costs associated with the structure of the plant must unfortunately be amortised on a much smaller number of machines. I hope I have clarified as much as possible the context of the 2013 plan. To continue with the evolution from 2013 to today, the result is that we have achieved our objectives in terms of productivity, but we do not have the expected volumes. In terms of total cost, we therefore have a periodic cost problem related to our structure. Secondly, this volume problem is not unique to the Gosselies plant. It is true in all sectors of the group: the mining sector which is very affected, the energy and transport sector (particularly oil-related) which is also very affected, all this is linked to the price of raw materials, and our construction and public works sector, which has been less affected but very affected as well. The group has also had to revise its outlook downwards, several times, in the industrial sector in which we operate, which is the construction and public works sector. Unfortunately, capacity has been put in place at the group level and at the global level on the basis of our prospects in 2010 and 2012. Today, the group finds itself with a structure, whether it be cost or capacity, far in excess of the volume outlook, not only in the context of 2015 and 2016, but also in the outlook for the future. There are no longer any prospects for using the capacity that is in place satisfactorily. This is what led the Caterpillar Group to announce a global restructuring plan in 2015. You asked why local management didn't see this happen, why we didn't do the right thing. We did everything we could, everything we needed. When the group's announcement fell in 2015, the level of concern increased among everyone, staff and management. At that time, we put in place a cost reduction plan, particularly for fixed costs, to try to adapt our structure to smaller volumes. This plan has been beyond the 2013 industrial plan and is already bearing fruit in 2016. All I can say is that it is this level of cost optimised or reduced as much as possible that was considered in the study carried out by the Caterpillar Group. Since 2015, it is certain that the group has announced that more than 20 plant closures will be required to achieve the cost reduction targets as well as the production capacity and area reduction targets. We were very worried and we acted. Unfortunately, in September, we announced the intention to transfer our products, which would result in the closure of the Gosselies site. We were informed, at the level of local management, a week before. You're gonna ask me if it was a surprise. Again, we knew there were risks, we did everything we could to try to position the site as best as possible. It is certain that this was both a shock and a disappointment. To go back to the content of this announcement and the reasons for the intention, I can only go back to what I have already told you in my introduction, that is, that the reasons the group has expressed for this announcement are really related to the global problem, to the fact that there is a need at the group level to reduce the cost structure and to the fact that there is an overcapacity. Therefore, the group is faced with the need to reduce its capacity and, necessarily, to touch sites. The Gosselies site is one of the scenarios that have been studied. Unfortunately, this scenario makes it possible to make a substantial contribution to this necessary reduction in costs and capacity. I gave you the numbers. These are real figures. The cost reduction that would be possible is over $100 million, representing 7 per cent of the total cost effort required. We can make the same observation with regard to the production surface. These are the two main reasons why our site is affected: because of its size, and its structure, which dates back to 1965, and despite the various actions and efforts to reduce these fixed costs, we remain with a high cost structure. On this subject, it has been said that we have a production area too high in relation to the activity. We made contacts to use the freed spaces. We have half of a building used by subcontractors to be able to complete the logistics supply. These parts were once stored in outside warehouses. So we valued our space in this way. We were also in contact to continue trying to optimize all spaces that could have been free or unused. Unfortunately, this does not allow us to go below this $100 million periodic cost bar. The other reason put forward by the group to explain this intention is the fact that we could supply or have built all the products we manufacture in other plants, at similar costs and with minimal investments. As there are available capacities, all over the world, for the products we manufacture, there is no need to invest to reallocate these products to other production units. Capacity and means of production exist. Secondly, the fact that this is at similar costs is for Europe. The first objective of our 2013 industrial plan was to return to costs in Europe that correspond to the objectives set. But this does not guarantee that we will be competitive for markets other than Europe. Therefore, this variant of transport costs and import costs had to be taken into account, which necessarily means that when equal costs are achieved for these parts and when the provision of other markets is considered, the transport and import costs unfortunately fall over. And then, second, as I said to you, the volumes have not materialized, so the total cost (amortization and fixed costs) has an equally higher cost than expected. That, I think, is the "past and explanation of the announcement". If you don't mind, I'll speak to Mr. Thompson later to talk about the group's dividends. But before that, I may wish to continue my presentation by telling you about the situation on the site today and in the coming months. The first thing, the situation on the site., After the announcement of 2 September 2016, we started the information-consultation procedure under the Renault law. As I have told you, four meetings have already been held and a fifth will be held this Friday. For this reason, in the context of this decision taken by our principal and the Caterpillar Group to transfer the products elsewhere, I have asked that the Group's financial officials come to present the study which led to this announcement. So every week, a whole team of financial managers from the Caterpillar group is present to prepare the information that is given to the works council and two of them participate in person in the works council to communicate the information. So, as here, a translation system is planned to allow for the exchange of information and questions. The second thing is that as a managing director, I have the responsibility to conduct this information-consultation process, which we do. I think that, so far, the climate has been correct and constructive, certainly considering the difficulty of the situation in which we are. We need to make further progress to cover all the information contained in this study. Therefore, several sessions will have to be held so that we can cover all the information, we can answer the questions that are asked and we can listen to the possible alternatives that will be proposed and answer them as well. In this context, I assure you that it is my responsibility to ensure that this procedure is carried out correctly, and I am committed to it. I can tell you that the alternatives that will be proposed will be studied and that we will respond to them. Given the context I explained to you and the reasons that go beyond the Gosselies site, it must be openly acknowledged that it will not be easy. Nevertheless, at this stage, I confirm that this is an intention and that we will receive the alternatives that would be proposed by the staff representatives. With regard to any other steps, if the intention were to be confirmed, I would also be in charge of conducting the negotiations within the framework of a social plan. And I also commit myself to doing so within the reasonable limits set by the Caterpillar Group in the best interests of all staff in Gosselies. It is now premature to give you more information about this negotiation and social plan. We still need to make some progress in information in the information and consultation procedure before we can start, as quickly as I hope, the first social discussions. I don't, and we have no will to drag things around. I don't think it's in anyone's interest. There is a lot of anxiety and uncertainty in everyone. So we really have the will to do so as soon as possible. As soon as possible, it is when we have covered enough information in phase 1. On the other hand, I am also committed to taking the necessary steps to identify possible opportunities for conversion of the site - again, if the intention were to be confirmed, in whole or in part - and to have all necessary contacts on this subject with the authorities. I think I've never refused contact since September 2nd. I have had very frequent contacts with certain political structures, especially the Walloon government, which is closer to our case, normally. But I am quite available and open to any other political contact that may be requested. In this context, it is premature today to give you more specific information on this subject. What I can tell you is that we are prepared to discuss these points which will be very important. It is I and the local management who will conduct these discussions, in interaction with the Caterpillar Group, the authorities and staff representatives. And again, I hope that we will move very quickly on that point too. The first step is to make the necessary contacts, to take stock of the situation in order to understand everything possible, and therefore this should be done very soon. Finally, you also alluded to the social situation on the site. And there, it is also important to take stock. The progress I have mentioned to you on the various procedures and phases under way, be it the Renault law and then, eventually, the negotiation of a social plan and possibly the conversion of a site, all this is possible only if we keep a situation which is under control and which is acceptable to all parties on the site. We are fully aware of the difficulty of achieving this in the current circumstances. There is a lot of emotion; there is resentment; there is disappointment; there is anxiety and uncertainty. But no one has anything to gain, either among the staff, among the suppliers, or in the region, no one has anything to gain from having a situation that is not under control. The priority from the beginning was to preserve the safety of the staff and I think that the site and the working tool should also be preserved as it is, especially if we have in mind any future prospects. I would like here to acknowledge the efforts that have been made by the staff, in particular the trade union organisations, to keep the situation under control at the security level so far. This is already an important point. In terms of production and shipments, we have progressed, not after not. It's very difficult. Why is it important to reach an acceptable level of production and shipping? First of all, for the site itself. To date, we have orders to honour for customers. Not only is it still an intention, but I assure myself, and the local management ensures, through daily contacts with the various leaders of the group, that we can have a production plan that is correct and that allows us to give work to the staff, with a minimum of unemployment. This is the first thing and I think it is important, especially considering the fact that demand and volumes for the coming months are at a low level. We are committed to giving this guarantee. To be able to maintain it, we must necessarily manufacture and ship the machines that are in our production plans and for which we still have orders. It is quite clear that we do not expect to achieve a level of production identical to what was achieved in the past. We take into account a level of emotion, a level of absenteeism. There is no doubt that we are not asking for the same thing. What is required is to achieve something that can be acceptable to both the payer and the staff, in the best interests of everyone. Another thing is also important. Many of you have raised the problem of suppliers. Today, we have always maintained our orders, our purchase contracts with all our suppliers of goods and services. It is not correct to say that some suppliers have seen their contracts abolished. We have maintained our orders and contracts. We're still intent. The best thing we can do to help all our suppliers and subcontractors is to try to ensure a sufficient level of volume that gives them activity. This is another reason why it is important to reach an acceptable level of activity. Today, much progress has been made. We have not yet reached the desired level, but I must acknowledge the efforts that have been made and the progress made, step by step. I sincerely hope that we will be able to make further progress in this direction in order to be able to keep in Gosselies, and in Gosselies, to carry out the machines for which we have orders, and secondly, to be able to also give work to our entire network of suppliers. Again, this is the best thing we can do to defend them. If we come to a situation where we are saturated and all our warehouses are full, we are unfortunately under an obligation to ask for no more delivery, which obviously has consequences for them and their staff. Finally, you also asked: but how long is it planned to hold? It was announced that the intention was to proceed with the first layoffs from April 2017. So the intention of the group is to start the transfer of the different products in the second quarter 2017. This is the horizon that is given to us. Up to this point, we will be able to guarantee work to the staff, under the conditions I have explained to you. I think I have answered your questions. I remain at your disposal to give you more information. I would now like to leave the floor to my colleagues to speak on certain points that you have raised. Mr. Mark Thompson will first explain Caterpillar's policy on dividends, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u21	I will make a couple comments on dividends. First I want to talk about Caterpillar’s approach to total shareholder value and the importance of dividends. Secondly I am going to talk about some figures, specifically to dividends. There were a few really key questions asked. I want to come back to these as a third point, including the suspension. What would the potential suspension be, in more significant cutback of dividends? Dividends form a significant element of Caterpillars total shareholder return equation. That is made of dividend yield and share price appreciation. Our dividend policy is taken by our executive office and board of directors. It considered a very long term and sustainable pay back to the owners of the company. With our current stock price of about 85 dollars and our current quarterly dividend yield of 77 cents per share, that is 3 dollars and 8 cents per share, our current dividend yield is about 3.5 percent on an annual basis. The last time that Caterpillar approved a dividend increase was in June 2015. I think we moved from 70 cents to the current 77 cents. As we look at the specific questions about dividends and profit, I want to be clear. Dividends do not impact profit. There is a number of ways that dividends are funded. Our focus on stable and increasing dividends, and specifically Caterpillar has increased dividends for 22 consecutive years. This is considered a strong element of why people buy Caterpillar stock and our access to capital. I don't have a specific number if the dividend were suspended or significant back, but I would say that it would make a material impact on the Caterpillar stock price. If we were to suspend the dividend, you could pick..., I could pick a number and start it at 20% impact, or bigger, on our market value or stock price. So the dividend policy that Caterpillar has is clearly aligned with our total shareholder return approach, for the horizon of the company. We do it on a very long-term approach, an approach that we take, that's split from the proximity of quarter or internal profits and based upon making Caterpillar stock attractive on the market place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u22	I would like to cover two more questions by asking for Mr Thompson's intervention: whether the ease of firing staff in Belgium and the social climate with the days of strike in Gosselies were decision-making factors? I would like to point out that I did not participate in the study that led to Caterpillar's intention to dismiss. I am now informed of this under the Renault law, but I did not participate in it. Neither of these two factors has ever been communicated to me as decision-making factors. I've never been told that. I was told what I explained to you today. Mr. Thompson being there, we can ask him to give us his position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u23	It’s a good question. The decision making by the entrepreneurs of Caterpillar has made this intention based upon upon cost as the primary reason. Its not specifically the energy cost, which is only a piece of it and even a very much small piece. Its primarily not necessarily based upon the redundancies or the social laws. We hear that in some of the questions. There was another question when there were any other facilities that could be decided. The reason is the size of Gosselies – we keep coming back to the size of Gosselies – and the associate cost of the size of Gosselies. Gosselies would be one of the five largest sites in Caterpillars global footprint. However, it的s really the only facility where products can be manufactured in other locations at similar costs with minimum investment. All other comparable sites of the size of Gosselies have single-source products, meeting that no other existing facility in the Caterpillar footprint makes these products. Specifically to what Thierry Hansen asked me, I must say that it的s not a primary driver of redundancy. It was strictly driven by a cost decision to address the Group的s overall competitiveness, when we have seen sales and revenues decline consecutively for years in a row. As some of you have read in the announcement, we took our outlook down even further. In the third quarter release it said that 2017 would be about the same as 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u24	Another question had been asked, but it was in line with what Mr. Thompson just said. Why the site of Gosselies compared to that of Grenoble? The first thing I would like to say is that the products that we intend to transfer to Grenoble are the loaders. This subject has not yet been covered by the works council. It must be, in principle, Friday. So I'm not going to be able to give you a lot of details. To return to what has just been said, the study has shown that for each product we manufacture, it is possible to produce them at similar costs in other plants. What we demonstrate to the works council is this statement for each of the products we manufacture, with the details of the costs. With regard to the issue of site feeding and production conditions, I would like to reiterate that all the conditions are in place to comply with our production plan and to be able to meet the orders we have. It's all together. So there was no transfer of activities that could impact us. We track suppliers day after day. We have a very detailed situation for everyone. We try to give them the most accurate information about the site's situation so that they can plan their activities. Both equipment, equipment and services are available and functional to ensure production. Another question concerned the future of Caterpillar in Belgium outside the Gosselies site. To that end, I should like to give the floor to Mr Bandry, who has a broader view of the whole of Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u25	As explained, Caterpillar does not intend to leave Belgium. We have a spare parts distribution centre in Grimbergen which, I believe, is the first user of Zaventem's emergency air cargo. It is not affected by this announcement of intent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have covered the information I could bring today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u27	Gentlemen, thank you for your answers and for your testimony, Mr Hansen, since you are also the link between the management of the multinational company and the company's staff. I will return the floor to the colleagues. A reply from Parliament is planned, but I will ask that everyone make a reply in the form of a conclusion and be as concise as possible. Indeed, the members of the management of Caterpillar have other commitments after this meeting and we agreed to finish at about 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u28	Mr President, I know that we have made a commitment not to go beyond 1 p.m., but it is clear that, based on all the information that has just been provided and which is not without reaction, the time limit of three minutes is short. I'll try to condense my mind. As explanations are given, including to trade union organisations, about what can be pearled in the press, which also does not have much information, a lot of things remain quotaed. Everyone seems to respect the Renault law. The arguments are the size and cost of Gosselies. I really feel it's a deliberate will, for some time now, to confront the funnel theory. The production at Caterpillar was X. Then you have to hold the dividends; you said it yourself, Mr. Thompson. I thank Mr Hansen for giving him the floor. Mr Hansen, it seems to me that you are a bit of an alibi, the one with words. Your situation is not simple. When you say it was a shock to you, I could put myself in your place, even if I prefer not to be in your place. If, moreover, you have not been kept informed, I must tell you that, on the part of your leaders, it is still not very pleasant. But what is important is the dividend and the attractiveness of the Caterpillar share. And so, I realize that at some point there may be risks depending on the evolution of the market and, therefore, I do, at some point x-1: I re-allocate production, I change production. Then I do x-2 and then x-3 in relation to the initial size. Then, finally, the production costs of the site are too high. Conclusion: I close the site. It is nice to justify your figures, produced by product, but it is not in relation to this that we had to justify but in relation to a situation that was well existing, with a whole series of plans that were put in place, with a single objective, at a certain point in time. It was Mr Thompson who said it: "it is to make Caterpillar's action interesting in the market and to have our dividend policy that is maintained". What else is happening? You said it yourself; it is good that you are asked to repeat what you were told because you did not participate in the plan. There was also a study done in Charleroi on the initiative of the Strategic Development Committee by the Bureau d'études Berger. Your element was the price of the barrel and when you went to Charleroi, not to Tier 3 and Tier 4 but only to Tier 4, but having only the European market and therefore more the market in North Africa and the Middle East, you killed Caterpillar. This was decided in 2013. You killed the company! You lied to the workers, saying: "It's restructuring. If we reach our goals, don't worry, there will be the sustainability of the company." You lied to them and you lied to all Belgian public opinion. Unfortunately. You are not responsible; they are responsible for this. And why? Simply because we could continue to sell in North Africa. We could continue to sell in the Middle East. But obviously bringing them from other production sites, thinking that the cost of transportation is cheap, it was a little easy. Actually, what's going on? For this logic of ownership, dividends and attractiveness of the action, Caterpillar kills Caterpillar! Indeed, Caterpillar's main competitor is Caterpillar himself with the other production sites and reassignments. What are you doing right now? You kill all production sites except those in the United States that have some productivity, to go to other sites. Caterpillar kills Caterpillar. Recognize it clearly here! Have the honesty to say it! I would now like to turn to one point which also gives rise to my concern: the social plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u29	Sir, allow me to point out that we agreed that the speaking time would be three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u30	Many things are premature as regards the social plan, the conversion unit, the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u31	Mr. Massin, I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u32	I'm finishing, Mr. President. I urge you not to go into the rotting strategy. Besides, beyond the social plan, I would have liked you to commit yourself to giving the land and the site for a euro and not to compensate for part of the social plan. Make this commitment! You have the will to reconvert, to think about the workers, the subcontractors. So, give the site for a euro. That has already been done. I do not see why this could not be the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u33	A lot has already been said. I would like to thank both gentlemen and the other two speakers once again for their presence, particularly Mr Hansen, in order to give us some insight into how everything happened. However, I think, Mr President, that we should consider how we are going to hold hearings of this kind in the future. Perhaps it would have been more interesting to have Mr Thompson give a full account of the way in which Caterpillar works around the world, and of which Gosselies is clearly the victim, as said by the previous speaker. Mr Thompson has made this very clear: Caterpillar's dividend and attraction on the market is important, and everything else has to give way. Once again, Mr Hansen, I admire you for the way in which you are trying and hopefully persisting in achieving the maximum. The way in which this multinational deals with companies in a particular country and a fortiori with its employees in that particular country, I find below all levels. Once again, should we have had time, we should have had Mr Thompson explaining the Caterpillar strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u34	You say that you did not receive any subsidies, apart from what was legally provided for tax reductions, for notional interest, for reductions in social contributions. Above all, I would like to highlight the fact that you have refused, each time, to be part of the Marshall Plan. I was a Walloon minister at the time, minister in charge of research. You refused, you also refused business aid, because you had to take part in a process which was also that of the Walloon Region. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the logic of multinationals who just come here to seek the fruits of the dividends. Mr Thompson, thank you for your sincerity, it has helped us shed light on the debate. Could you, Mr. Thompson, be so sincere about the future of the site and the ongoing discussions? Your colleague Mr Hansen tells us that he will very sincerely analyse the alternatives. I wish this could be repeated by you, with the same sincerity that you used to talk about dividends that take precedence over everything else in the company. And I would like you to be concrete about what this means to you, and including, in terms of possible commitment on alternatives or resale of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u35	Thank you, Mr Hansen, for the information you have given us. You haven't answered all the questions, but we certainly understand Caterpillar's situation better today. In any case, one can imagine that the whole problem comes from a decrease in demand, a significant decrease, for the machinery you manufacture, whether for the mining sector, the transport and energy sector, the construction and public works sector at the same time. Of course, all of this must be placed in a slowdown in the world economy, particularly in our Western economies, and probably also in increased competition from all Asian countries. And here I think that every day a company, a factory, a multinational company, has to reinvent itself, to recreate, every day, new products, new ways of adapting to a constantly changing market. Apparently, I don't feel like that's what really happened at Caterpillar's. Instead, we tried to take another option, that of cost reduction. Of course, from then on, we in Belgium, with the establishment of Gosselies, were in a particularly poor position. We had to go through this decision. It can be noted that Gosselies was a factory that lacked specificities, since its production, we understood, could easily be relocated to other plants in the group. It was also understood that there was also a problem of competitiveness, and probably too high costs in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u36	But he said the other way around!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u37	Well, there are things that you sometimes have to interpret. In conclusion, I hope that you will be able to do everything in your power to facilitate the availability of the site, as quickly and as easily as possible, so that this site can find a new orientation, with the maximum commitment of workers who will be dismissed in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will have a full account of our work. We will be able to read all this again in every national language.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u39	Thank you for the answers you provided. Some questions remained unanswered. Perhaps this is linked to the pre-worker information, and that is quite normal. Perhaps other answers were more indistinguishable. Mr Hansen, in relation to you personally, I can hear that you have tried to do everything for the Gosselies site and its workers. I can hear that. If I'm not mistaken, you've been investing in the site for twenty-six years. On the other hand, for Caterpillar Mondial, Gosselies was just a point that was struck off the map and, beyond that, it was above all those thousands of workers who were completely or simply fired from their jobs. I also have the clear impression, after what has been said today, that the dividend policy seems to be able to justify everything in the eyes of Caterpillar Mondiale. What has struck me and what you have said very well is that there are additional costs that are related to the size of Gosselies, the size of the entire site, and, conversely, the products are manufactured at costs that are similar to other sites. I take a lesson that everyone has to learn and a lesson for other companies in the future. Why have contacts not been established upstream and, in particular, with the responsible authorities, therefore the Walloon government, so that the Gosselies site can evolve and be narrowed so that part of the site is allocated to other companies, because then there would have been no more this additional cost related to the size of Gosselies? I think it's a missed opportunity upstream and it's a shame. I will end with three very short messages for the future. First, you said you were going to listen to the workers' proposals to keep an activity on Gosselies. I would like to say that it is also the responsibility of the employer in the current phase of the Renault law, to examine with all possible energy the alternatives, in particular the maintenance of an activity. Secondly, in case of dismissal, your responsibility is to negotiate a social plan, to respect the laws and, beyond the laws, to respect all workers, including, because you have not mentioned it, subcontractors. Thirdly, if you leave Gosselies for good, the stake in the land and the site is major for the future development of the Charleroi region. The human damage has already been enormous, there could not be a question of leaving there a site that cannot be quickly exploited and assigned to other companies. Otherwise, the waste will be monstrous for years and years. Corporate responsibility is legal, legal, but if I may say so, corporate responsibility is also social.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u40	Mr President, thank you. We did not receive answers to all the questions asked. I would like to stress two points of answer which seem to me to be important for the political debate emanating from the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar. I have heard the employers' representatives tell us here, ladies and gentlemen, that the social climate of the company is not one of the parameters of closure. I would therefore like the more liberal forces that would have wanted to take advantage of such an announcement to point even further to the resistance of the world of work to reconsider their views on the subject slightly. You still have to listen to the boss, Mr. Friart! The employer also said that the cost of production was not the source of the problem. Please, Mr Friart, make a little effort to listen to what the employers reveal and stop constantly coming with your dogmatic and ideological agenda in this debate! I wonder if Caterpillar's direction also sees that we are entering a spiral that is transformed into a real snake biting its tail. You will lay off workers whose purchasing power will decrease on average, especially in the countries in which you are active. The demand for public works will decrease either directly through the demand for bulk works by public authorities or through individual real estate consumption, etc. The European market has really entered a downward spiral. You're not alone in this. The European political authorities, through their austerity policy, directly affect you, particularly in the area of major work. I wonder if the group has a strategic thinking because continuing in this spiral is a cul-de-sac. This allows me to bounce back on Mr Thompson, who is very direct, with regard to the logic of dividends: you reduce your turnover and profits but you continue to increase the dividends. It's a crazy thing! We are no longer even in a basic capitalistic logic, we are really in parasitic capitalism, where the only goal is to withdraw money from production. Your direct competitor, Komatsu, paid 39% dividends, you're 82%. How long will this model hold, even from an economic point of view? I'm still pretty stunned. Thirdly, with regard to tax gifts, Mr Hansen, we must give all the figures. You give the figures for 2015, but there are also those for 2014. [[We are still at 14%, we have an average over the last ten years of 150 million in notional interest.]] Are you rejecting that number? There is a certain balance sheet for us. Finally, and we have received very few answers to this very opaque subject, there is the famous "sandwich of death", as the workers call it. Do you deny the fact that, in the Caterpillar group, you can make huge variations in profits between sites by playing on the price of the parts upstream and downstream? Do you deny that this system exists? Do you argue that this is related to the fact that the market allows you to sell your machines? Or do you confirm that there is, within the group, a way to play on these parameters and that Gosselies would have been the victim?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u41	Mr President, in my question on the social envelope, I have drawn attention to the importance of maintaining a social envelope that is as large as possible to allow these workers to turn around. Mr Hansen, I hear you say that you were disappointed, that it was a shock for you too, and that you are committed to doing your best, within reasonable limits, to be able to negotiate a social plan, or even to identify the possibilities of reconversion of the site. I still have the impression that Caterpillar's leadership, in contempt of the workers, also despises you. You say you were notified only a week before the official announcement. How can you really be able to negotiate this conversion or, in any case, maintain a really important social envelope? Don't you think you are – excuse me – just a puppet or a spokesperson for Caterpillar? Anyway, I wouldn't like to be in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u42	Mr President, I thank Mr Hansen for coming to see us today courageously. My remarks are to Mr. Thompson. I was very surprised to hear that the group administrator had not participated in the study that led to the decision to close Caterpillar here in Brussels. Mr Thompson, I have heard the various reasons why Caterpillar closed the site in Belgium, but I am astonished by your policy. If you do this in different places, you will be in front of an economic desert because of the dividend policy! I'm also from the business world. I don't think this is a good way to run a business like yours. I think that Belgium has brought you a lot in terms of working capacity thanks to the skill level of its workers. I find that it is a way in which the company, the management and the workers are disrespectful that you have only taken into account the dividend. A responsible entrepreneur must of course care about his dividend and repay the capital, but he must also care about the rest of the business. It is with these words that I want to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic517x.u43	Colleagues, with Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, I would like to thank all the members who have spoken. We had a good debate, and I thank our guests for their participation. Of course, there is always a taste of too little. We could have done something different, done better. In any case, we have received sometimes very precise answers, although it is true that, with regard to questions relating to certain aspects such as the social plan or conversion, our guests have informed us that it is too early to answer, that it is premature and that colleagues may consider that the answers given are not sufficiently complete. In any case, gentlemen, you have given yourself a good democratic exercise. You have been involved in making some transparency on this issue. We must continue in this direction, knowing that Parliament is the place where citizens speak through their representatives. I thank you, in any case, for bent on this exercise. Be aware that dialogue remains possible. Indeed, I can understand that the Renault procedure must be taken into account and that it is premature to talk about the social plan and the conversion today. However, there are many questions about these aspects. In doing so, know that we remain open – and we hope that this is also your case – to the continuation of the debate. I would point out that the meetings of this committee are the subject of a full report. Since this debate is public, the full proceedings of this meeting will be available on the House's website. Gentlemen, you have allowed this debate to be public, which is why with Mr. Van Quickenborne and all the members of this committee, thank you once again for your participation.
