ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u1	Mr President, Minister, we have learned of the resignation of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the occupied Palestinian territories, Indonesian Makarim Wibisono, on the grounds that Israel has never allowed him to enter those territories. He will leave on 31 March, at the end of the next session of the Human Rights Council, before which the expert will present his last report. Since his assumption of office, he had repeatedly asked the Israeli authorities for access to the Palestinian territories, according to the United Nations. In June 2015, Emmanuel Nahshon, spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had explained to the AFP that his country had not allowed a visit by Mr Wibisono "because Israel cooperates with all international commissions and rapporteurs except when their mandate is in advance anti-Israeli and Israel has no chance of being heard". I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the reaction of Belgian diplomacy to this resignation and to its advanced causes? What position will Belgium adopt at the next session of the Human Rights Council? Has this issue been addressed at European level? If so, what was the content of the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium naturally regrets this resignation and understands that the reasons put forward by Mr Wibisono for this decision include Israel's refusal to grant it access to the Occupied Palestinian Territory. I would like to recall that the Member States of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of human rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territory at the Council meeting in March 2015, which deplores Israel's lack of cooperation with the special procedures. At the same session, the European Union, in its statement, deplored Israel's refusal to grant access to the Palestinian territory to the Special Rapporteur, despite previous indications that the Israeli Government would consider favourably the possibility of a visit by Mr Wibisono in his capacity as rapporteur. The European Union also called on Israel to give access to the Special Rapporteur without delay and to extend a standing invitation to all thematic special rapporteurs. At the next meeting of the Human Rights Council, the Belgian and European position will undoubtedly be in line with our position in March 2015. You know that Belgium has been a member of the Council since its election earlier this year. We will pay attention to this situation. On the other hand, I assume that the parliamentarians who had the opportunity to meet this morning with a number of representatives of the Knesset had the opportunity to question them on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I was pleased to hear that Belgium will defend a position that I would call interesting in this area within the framework of the Human Rights Council. I did have the opportunity to address this issue this morning with our colleagues in the Knesset. I have heard that it was indeed assumed that the UN Special Rapporteur was not objective enough to carry out his work properly because he is Indonesian and his country has long refused to recognize the State of Israel, which left me without a voice. In any case, I hope that Belgium will be able to take the lead on this issue and will be able to defend very firmly positions which are more in line with respect for our international institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u4	Mr Dallemagne is on his way. I propose that we first give the floor to Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u5	Mr President, Minister, at the European Foreign Affairs Council on 18 July, you discussed with your colleagues the situation in Iraq and the question of possible support from the European Union and its Member States for the Iraqi government. Can you, Minister, briefly explain to me what the Belgian Government's position on this issue is? Does Belgium intend to support the Iraqi government? If so, in what form? If Belgium decides to support the Iraqi government, will you coordinate with your European counterparts in order to optimize it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u6	Minister, I also have a number of questions about the situation in Syria. There are a number of tilting moments in the situation at the moment, which is very worrying. We follow the media and we all see that geopolitical tensions are growing enormously. It is about the role of Russia, the role of Saudi Arabia and the role of Turkey. Resolution 2254 was unanimously adopted by the UN Security Council at the end of last year and it was decided to enter into peace talks; that is another dynamic. Last week, several key actors in the Syrian conflict met in Munich to work out the ceasefire to enter into force by the end of this week. The Assad regime and the opposition were absent at the table, two actors who, of course, should be involved in determining whether that cease-fire will also be effective. There is also the role of Russia to which I have referred briefly. Mr Minister, all these things together require me to ask you a few questions. The European Union is a remarkable absentee in the debate. The slow reaction of the European Union and the US and the slow progress of the peace talks mean that Russia and President Assad can continue to fight, resulting in severe humanitarian horrors. Has the time not come for a very clear stance by the European Union towards Russia on their role in Syria? What steps will our country take in this? What position will you defend in this respect? What position will Belgium take specifically with regard to the importance of the peace talks? What steps should the European Union take? What is Belgium doing to encourage them to take more effective action? What is the impact of the announced ceasefire in Syria as neither the Assad regime nor the Syrian opposition participated in it? However, they will have to ensure that this is effectively implemented. Finally, what effect has the Russian bombings carried out in support of the Assad regime had on their negotiating position in those peace talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u7	Minister, we are aware of the developments in Syria and they illustrate what I said here a few months ago, in particular that IS is the greatest enemy of all but one. Everyone focuses on that even greater enemy, and that is the Kurds for the Turks, the Saudis for the Iranians, and so on and so forth. For everyone, IS is the second worst enemy and may be a particularly comfortable position for IS. In Munich it was announced that there will be a temporary truce. Unfortunately, those involved are not so convinced. President Assad, who has regained some breathing space over the past few weeks, has said that this truce is in practice unworkable. The tensions between Russia and Turkey are increasing and also between Russia and the United States. There is even talk of a new Cold War, when we find that war is getting very hot. It may be weird, but I don't expect you to give a conclusive answer to my questions. After all, that would promote you to world news, I think. However, we will continue to try. But I do not blame you if you cannot wield the wand here. We must take account of the failure of the ceasefire. What is that supposed to mean and, above all, what room do you see for diplomacy? After all, we have rightly, I think, always done so in the past, given priority to diplomatic solutions. In Syria, it is currently being proven that this diplomatic path is deadly, unfortunately literally. What room do you think there is for diplomatic action, particularly for Europe, which may have remained rather passive in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u8	Mr President, I will first answer the various questions on Syria and Iraq. I will then give a more general consideration in response to Mr De Roover's question. Since the beginning of the Russian intervention in Syria, Belgium and the European Union have called on Moscow to direct and concentrate its action against Daesh and to respect the principle of proportionality in its actions in order to avoid causing civilian casualties. With regard to the exact number of civilian casualties from the Russian bombings, I do not have official figures. Moreover, I am not aware of the Russian rules of engagement. I cannot therefore make a comparison with those observed by Belgium. The rules observed by Belgium are very strict and are probably not comparable to the Russian rules. If you would like more information on this subject, I invite you to ask my Defence colleague. Belgium also asks that Turkey show restraint in their military actions against Syrian-Kurdish troops. The agreement reached last week in Munich in the International Syrian Support Group is only a first step towards restarting political negotiations for Syria. It is, however, awaiting the concrete results of that agreement on the ground. In the last few days and weeks we have seen an intensification of the bombings, also because of Russia. We are particularly concerned about the situation in northern Syria and around the city of Aleppo because additional tens of thousands of people have fled. The Assad regime is trying to take back control of the city and that can change the dynamics of the conflict. The parties concerned must abandon the military strategy and re-opt for political logic. I mentioned this at the last meeting of the European Foreign Ministers. There are still a number of partners who think of a military rather than a political solution, perhaps with a view to strengthening their position on the ground. There is an urgent need for a reduction in violence and for more opportunities to provide humanitarian aid to the people affected. This was also agreed in Munich and was already part of UN Security Council Resolution 2254. Belgium, like the European Union, has an unambiguous position on respect for international law, including in armed conflicts. Since the beginning of the conflict in Syria, I have taken initiatives to call for respect for international humanitarian law. The bombing of civilians or hospitals is totally intolerable. I have had the opportunity to speak on this again in a joint communiqué with my colleague from Cooperation today. The Amnesty report to which you are referring also confirms the urgent need for a political solution in Syria so that the population can no longer bear the costs of fighting. I call for all actors on the ground and those who have an influence on them to allow, without waiting for a wider political agreement, access to humanitarian aid in Syria not only in places that receive media attention but also everywhere else in Syria on a regular basis. Yesterday I was in contact with my Iranian colleague for Foreign Affairs, Mr Zarif, and I said that it must really be possible to get access to humanitarian aid. But we fear an increase in military action on the ground by the Assad regime, Russia and perhaps other partners as well. However, yesterday I called for real access to humanitarian aid and not just in Madaya. According to the Munich agreements, this must be done in seven different cities and also in other places where it appears necessary. There seems to be progress in terms of humanitarian access to certain areas in the wake of the fragile agreement reached in Munich. We are waiting to see what freedom of movement will be given to humanitarian convoys under the aegis of the United Nations. It is also a long-term action, not a one shot operation, to avoid the repetition of terrible situations, as has been observed in recent weeks. I recalled Madaya's highly publicized situation, but I want to say that this is not the only one. It is not because images of one city have been seen that others do not experience comparable situations. Despite the fact that a series of defeats have been imposed on Daesh on the ground, this organization continues to be a serious threat. We must continue the fight against this organisation, not only at military level but also with other actions within the framework of a comprehensive coherent policy. We must therefore promote more inclusiveness in Iraq and good governance practices must also be developed within that country. In this context, on 18 January, at the Foreign Affairs Council, we spoke about the situation in Iraq and Belgium actively prepared this Council by participating in the preparation of a non-paper prior to the Foreign Affairs Council. In the Council, my colleagues and I felt that the Abadi government should be supported so that it could implement the reform proposals already on the table. The Iraqi political class must also be encouraged to pursue the necessary reforms. Another important area is the stabilization of the liberated areas, so that the Iraqi people fully benefit from the reconquest of the areas liberated from the yoke of Daesh. In particular, we are working with our German colleagues on the stabilisation of a number of areas. Secondly, given the fall in oil prices, there is a liquidity problem in Iraq, which we must address, possibly by involving international monetary institutions. The European Union bodies have been asked to make proposals to this effect. The European Union supports Iraq in concrete terms, inter alia, through the financing of humanitarian or stabilization projects in connection with the policy I have just outlined. Belgium is one of the countries that is helping to advocate for the biannual evaluation of the overall strategy for Syria and Iraq, so that the European Union can adapt its policies and instruments to the changing situation and needs. I remind you that within the framework of the anti-Daesh coalition, Belgium has sent trainers to Baghdad to improve the effectiveness of Iraqi government forces and will, from July onwards, be again active with F-16s. Medical equipment and military training in cooperation with Germany are also provided to Kurdish Peshmergas, in accordance with the federal framework of an indivisible Iraq. Substantial humanitarian efforts have also been made to support the people of the region affected by these conflicts. All the Belgian efforts I have just mentioned are part of the strategy defined by the European Union. Last Monday we had a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. There was the same reaction. We must now call for a real ceasefire so that real access to humanitarian aid can be made possible in different places in Syria. After Munich, it is clear that this is becoming more and more a confrontation between Russia and the United States. We are now waiting for a real reaction from Russia. We are trying to put more pressure on Russia to achieve a real ceasefire. This would allow access to humanitarian aid in different places. So far, however, there is no certainty about this. We also call for restraint on the part of Turkey. We ask them not to take too many actions in different places along the border with Syria and Iraq. First and foremost, we are trying to get cooperation with various partners for humanitarian aid. We are also trying to establish cooperation for a temporary ceasefire. We have also advocated a political solution, because that is the only way forward. Yesterday, we said to our Iranian colleague that political dialogue is the only way forward for both Syria and Iraq and Libya, but also for Yemen. Yemen may have less attention than those other countries. So far, however, this remains very difficult. The only reason for this is that there are still some partners who think of a military solution or at least military progress rather than a real political solution. So we are trying to support the European Union in moving in that direction, with a real negotiation process in Geneva. We are also trying to put pressure on different partners to reach a political solution, but I remain very cautious at the moment. The only way is first to provide humanitarian aid in Syria and then to make possible progress towards a political solution. There was a very positive signal from Libya with a possible agreement on a government of national unity. However, we still need permission from the two partners in Tobroek and Tripoli. We are trying to move in the same direction with an inclusive government in Iraq. We are also trying to get everyone around the table for negotiations between the opposition and the Assad regime on Syria. I repeat that we have been very careful so far. It is not at all certain whether the United Nations will be able to access different cities in Syria in the next few hours or days to provide humanitarian aid. I will leave it at that, Mr De Roover. I'm still trying to play a role in a number of conversations, but I'm gonna be very careful. So far, there are not many positive signals about the situation on the ground in the various countries in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u9	The questions put together by Mr Blanchart and myself under paragraph 35 are in fact entirely in line with the answer given by the Minister. Maybe there's a way to drop that question? I suspect that the answer will not differ fundamentally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u10	If you think that your question under point 35 has been dealt with by the Minister, I will look in the direction of Mr Blanchart. Colleague Blanchart, do you consider that you have received an answer from the Minister to your question under paragraph 35? Or do you keep your question? That's your right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u12	Let's say it's integrated into the debate. I give the floor to Mr Crusnière, and if Mr Dallemagne so wishes, I will give him the floor in a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u13	I simply thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u14	I'd like to apologize first. We don't always have the agenda of the various commissions. I will read with interest the minister's answer. This is obviously an extremely worrying problem. I hope that European diplomacy will be fully engaged. I believe that much has been lacking in Iraq and Syria is that during the first years of the conflict, as a matter of prudence, we preferred not to intervene too much. I hope that we have learned the lessons of the past and that we can ensure that all diplomacy is fully engaged. I had discussions in the European Parliament recently which showed that some Member States were not yet fully aware that the great crisis that is developing in Europe today, both in terms of migration and terrorism, has its origin there. Until we resolve this conflict, until we calm it down, we will be faced with these quasi-existent problems for the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u15	Mr President, I welcome the Minister's response and certainly the priorities, such as the focus on humanitarian access. In addition, I particularly hope that this country can be a calming factor in the rising geopolitical tensions. I think it is important that you emphasise the further progress of the diplomatic process and the contribution to a political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u16	First of all, Minister, thank you for your answer to my question on item 35. We note that Syria is the place where much is happening, but it is not the first concern of those who believe they should play a role in it. Of all participants in the conflict, Europe is the most physically affected region. The refugee crisis has little impact in Russia, Saudi Arabia and Iran. For those countries it is more than for Europe and the United States really a foreign war where they send troops or not. They see this more as a geopolitical chess game where pieces are moved. The fact that Europe is involved in another way directly in the crisis means that it must be able to take a separate position in it. The importance of stabilisation and the search for a solution may be much greater than for the other participants in the game. For them, Syria is not so much Syria, but it is an arbitrary country where arm wrestling is done in a humanitarianly sad way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u17	Mr President, I also thank the minister for his answers. It must be recalled that action is urgently needed. A school and a hospital were bombed in Azaz by Russian aviation, killing 14 civilians. In Idlib province, another air attack struck a hospital supported by Médecins Sans Frontières and killed 7 people. The situation is dramatic. It can be seen that Syria has truly become the scene of more or less direct confrontations in many countries and major powers. What is revealed in the press does not reveal the full depth of the various stakes. The position of the Erdogan government is, in particular, rather ambiguous. Turkey is strongly suspected of becoming more interested in Kurds as targets rather than in Daesh terrorists. All this is not very clear. Nor is it clear that many extremists, of whom the Turks themselves complain, enter Turkish territory. All this is not very well controlled. The situation in the region is becoming very difficult. We Europeans are sometimes bound by decisions taken at NATO level and feel that we should not be able to act as we should if we were to resolve this conflict, and I say that in my personal capacity. One wonders how so many such important world military powers have yet to overcome the tens of thousands of Daesh fighters. How is it possible with armies as powerful as the Turkish, Iranian, Russian, etc.- Is that what you're saying? It's very interesting, but it's just me. In any case, this results in many innocent victims on the ground: 450,000 are already being said to have died. It makes you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this Wednesday, 20 January, Belgium passed its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) before the UN Human Rights Council. While Belgium has been commended – and this is to be welcomed – for the progress made in the field of human rights since its last UPR in 2011, recommendations have been issued by many States, including Ukraine, the United Kingdom, France and Denmark, mainly on two topics. The first is the creation of an independent national human rights mechanism. The second is the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture (OPCAT). Two commitments made by Belgium during its last UPR that have not yet been fulfilled. In addition, it appears that several countries have expressed concern about racial, religious and xenophobia. Finally, Hungary and Switzerland called for Belgium to ratify, at last, the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, as already pointed out in the last Geneva Review. As my colleague Yvan Mayeur said during the previous parliamentary term, I think it is more than imperative to finally establish a common interpretation within our country of the concept of "national minority". I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the answer you gave to the various problems identified in this UPR and what actions do you intend to take to address them? When will the federal authorities consult with the federated entities to establish a common understanding of the concept of a national minority in order to ratify, once and for all, the Framework Convention on Minorities with a view to ending a situation of discrimination within our country itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u19	Mr President, Minister, my question also concerns the Universal Periodic Review, but my angle is different from that of my colleague Crusnière. I will therefore elaborate on my question. Indeed, Belgium has just presented its second Universal Periodic Review to 193 members and observers of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. This test enables each Member State to present and defend its human rights protection policy. In this regard, our country can boast of a satisfactory record, the progress of which has been welcomed by many of its peers. Indeed, at its first UPR in 2011, Belgium agreed to work on 88 of the 122 recommendations notified to it. Unfortunately, the absence at the time of an internal evaluation system did not make it possible to draw up a precise assessment of the progress made. In order to carry out this new UPR exercise, you would therefore have expressed the desire to set up an evaluation mechanism to systematically analyse Belgium's work in the field of human rights. Minister, following the recommendations made at the first UPR, Belgium has embarked on the establishment of a National Institute for Human Rights. Can you inform me about the status of this case? Among the recommendations received by Belgium during this second review, which, in your opinion, would still deserve more attention? I think this information can help this committee. Can you provide more detailed information on the content of the dashboard you would like to set up and the date on which your services consider it to be operational? Are you planning to defend the establishment of such an evaluation mechanism at EU level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u20	I also have an answer to the questions put by Mrs Lijnen and Mrs Capoen. Indeed, I had the honour of chairing the Belgian delegation on the occasion of the second Universal Periodic Review of Belgium, which took place on 20 January before the United Nations Human Rights Council. Our country was commended for the progress made since its last UPR in 2011. But our country has also received many new recommendations. Many recommendations concerned the establishment of a National Human Rights Institute and the ratification of an optional protocol to the Folter Convention. These two points deserve particular attention. With regard to the establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism in line with the Paris principles, I would like to point out that the Belgian Government has formally reiterated its intention to work actively on this. Work has begun. Its effective implementation is planned for the end of the legislature. I invite you to ask my colleague from Justice for more details, on the understanding that this is a matter that requires coordination between the federal authority and the various federated entities, which probably takes a little time. I can tell you that the ratification of the optional protocol to the Toll Convention will take place as soon as possible. As I said in Geneva, Belgium is fully aware of the importance of the optional protocol and signed it in 2005. It certainly has not indicated a lack of interest in the ratification of this protocol, but it is also linked to the establishment of the national machinery, which has caused some delay, which I deplore. I have drawn the attention of my colleagues in the Council of Ministers to this point. I hope that we will have the opportunity to present to Parliament a draft ratification, even if all the provisions relating to the national machinery are not yet implemented. In other words, I do not find it normal that, for more than ten years, we have not ratified an additional protocol on combating torture, although our institutional complexities probably explain many of these delays. I call for every effort to be made in this area, which we are doing with my colleague from Justice. With regard to the Framework Convention on Minorities, with a view to reaching an agreement in Belgium on the definition of national minorities necessary to lift the Belgian reservation, I launched a working group in 2014. On 6 July, at the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Policy, I personally put this item on the agenda and proposed to continue the work. I finally received the names of the representatives of the Brussels Region to this working group on Monday, 15 February. Therefore, I will not fail to convene a meeting quickly. I confirmed this yesterday in the Interministerial Conference on Foreign Policy, since we had received for quite some time the list of representatives of the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region, the various partners, but not yet from the Brussels Region. After several reminders, I have just received this Monday the names of the participants in this group of experts. Now that the Brussels Region also seems interested in the definition of minorities, we will be able to start work. I hope that this group of experts will make progress and that we will be able to move towards a common definition in this area. The problem of violence against women has indeed been addressed by the UPR. Many recommendations concerned incentives for the implementation of the new National Action Plan on Gender-based Violence. Our country has received these recommendations and will give them the necessary follow-up. I would like to point out that a member of the policy cell of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities is part of the Belgian delegation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the federal departments and federated entities that participated in this exercise. This allowed us to hear a wide range of comments from 104 delegations in Geneva – I am not saying that for your committee, Mr President – who had one minute and ten seconds to express their appreciation of the respect for human rights in Belgium. I shall take up two comments which have particularly called upon me, those of Belarus and the Russian Federation, which have asked me about the tragedy, in some cases, of child poverty in Belgium. Of course, we are trying to answer this important question. We are trying to move forward and I thank all the departments, regardless of the entities, that have participated. I do not comment on Bahrain's interventions on the situation of women in our country. I will not fail to consult and involve civil society in the follow-up to this exercise. She was already involved upstream. The Geneva session took place fifteen days ago. We will resume with civil society participants to follow up on the recommendations. This monitoring of human rights received by Belgium in the various human rights processes is already being carried out in a systematic manner at the administrative level. An internal consultation, in the format known as "coormulti", bringing together representatives of federal administrations and cabinets, as well as representatives of the Regions and Communities, is organised every six months. It allows us to review the state of implementation of all the recommendations that our country has received, whether in the framework of United Nations procedures, such as the Universal Periodic Review I have just mentioned, or in the framework of the conclusions and final observation of the United Nations treaty bodies, or in the framework of procedures of other bodies active in the field of human rights, such as the Council of Europe. He has just sent us a number of recommendations and comments on the policy on persons with disabilities. I have also decided to bring the results of these biannual meetings to political level by creating a monitoring mechanism at national level, both at the level of the Council of Ministers and at the level of the Concertation Committee. It seems to me essential that regular political follow-up be carried out in order for Belgium to implement its commitments without delay. Human rights are an important pillar of our foreign policy. They must also be integrated into all aspects of our internal policy. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will ensure that I continue to pay particular attention to the follow-up to these issues. I will therefore propose to the Council of Ministers that we develop a scoreboard comparable to the one we are implementing for the transposition of European directives within the framework of the internal market. I very much hope that the recommendations made during the Universal Periodic Review will be followed up at the federal level in a permanent scoreboard that will allow us to see the progress made and the delays unfortunately noted. I would also like to present this scoreboard to the Consultation Committee so that the federated entities are also placed before their responsibilities with regard to the implementation of recommendations that depend either exclusively on federated entities or on collaboration between the federal and federated entities. We will therefore have this point of the situation on a regular basis, which I am prepared to present to Parliament. There is no reason to just wait for the next Universal Periodic Evaluation. We must be able to move forward in the meantime. I have also proposed an approach at European level. I have said this in plenary on several occasions: I am in favour of the establishment of a periodic evaluation of all the Member States of the European Union on respect for the rule of law and human rights in the European Union. I have started consultations with my colleagues in this regard. I talked to several partners about this at bilateral meetings. I had the opportunity to present a non-paper, a non-paper, to my colleagues from the founding states of the European Union at a recent meeting in Rome. I have just presented the same proposal to all European colleagues this week at the General Affairs Council. We have provided the same information to all Member States. We have proposed that, for the March European Council, and we will see how we can make progress, we can ask the European bodies to make progress in this area. I have taken the trouble of meeting also with the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Frans Timmermans, my former Dutch Foreign Affairs colleague, to present the procedure. The idea would be as follows – but we are ready to discuss the modalities: to ask the European Commission to present an annual report on the development of the rule of law in the 28 Member States of the European Union. This assessment could be accompanied by recommendations. The debate could therefore take place in the General Affairs Council. As I said in plenary in response to a number of questions, I think there is no reason to pay less attention to the rule of law than is given to the budgetary situation of the individual Member States. The response of all the countries that have intervened has been very positive. I am thinking in particular of Italy, Sweden and Denmark, but also of France or Germany which reacted to the proposal. We will now seek to include in the conclusions of one of the forthcoming European Councils a reference to this state of the rule of law. It is all the more important to set up a general mechanism for a European review of the rule of law as we are now experiencing a number of debates on migration or security which lead to the adoption of a large number of laws. In adopting these laws, it seems to me useful to assess the relationship between the necessary migration or security approach to protect our citizens, on the one hand, and individual freedoms, and the protection of privacy, on the other. We must not simply point our finger at a European state from time to time – as we sometimes do in a strong way and as we have seen in recent years, in recent weeks or even in recent days – without agreeing to discuss the situation in the twenty-eight Member States. It is too simple to point the finger at a state without looking at the situation in the 28 Member States. In addition, as I have said several times before this committee, I find it a bit a pity that the European Union is giving lessons all over the world, without agreeing to face up to the situation on its own territory. Perhaps it would be useful to be a little less a teacher elsewhere in the world, while sharing an experience of what we have achieved in recent decades in our territory. It is a matter of spreading not the model but the result of regional integration in Europe, but of being much more vigilant about the respect for human rights and the rule of law in Europe itself, towards the Member States and in particular the States that have joined us in recent years. The rule of law must be verified not only when entering the European Union but also thereafter, as is done for budgetary and economic situations. Through this, we could also verify the respect of a number of values by all those who want to become European citizens and who join us in one form or another as European citizens today. It was in this spirit that I proposed this approach to the European Council. I think we need to set an example. We will do so in Belgium by verifying the implementation of the recommendations communicated to us by the UN Human Rights Council at both federal and inter-federal level to the Consultation Committee. I would like to take this same approach to the European level. It'll take time. But we must not be mistaken: between the fiscal year that I had at the end of the last millennium as Minister of Finance and the current one, a very significant development has emerged. I therefore hope that, if we take an approach to the rule of law, we will make annual progress in this area. It is a question of having the same courage as at the time of the budget discussions. I assure you that within the European Union we will have at least the same capacity as in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will not fail to question Minister Geens about the establishment of the independent national mechanism. With regard to the issue of minorities, I am pleased that the group of experts will finally be able to take up this task. I hope that their work will bear fruit very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u22	Minister, I will also ask Koen Geens about the establishment of the Human Rights Institute. I would also like to thank you for putting the problems in the right order. You will not be surprised that I share your analysis of the protection and promotion of human rights within the European Union. Much work remains to be done in this area, particularly with regard to the responsibility of the Member States. Finally, I am pleased to learn that we are going to put in place a mechanism that will enable us, at the local and national levels, to implement all these recommendations that our country must respect – that is self-evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u23	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the reforms in Poland which undermine the independence of the media and the judiciary. The European Commission has announced an investigation into these reforms. For this purpose, the Commission is using a new procedure introduced to monitor the rule of law. A dialogue was launched with Poland, followed by recommendations and possible responses from Poland. This is a mechanism that my group would like to support and offer every opportunity. Minister, I have a number of questions. Can you explain more about the reforms of the media and the judiciary proposed in Poland? The European Commission has launched a dialogue, followed by recommendations and follow-up. What is your position on this new procedure? How do you estimate the impact of this procedure? Do you think that this procedure is sufficient to deal with the situation in Poland? In addition to the European Union, the Council of Europe may also examine reforms in Poland. The European Commission for Democracy by Law, also referred to as the Venice Commission, is an advisory body of the Council of Europe aimed at promoting the spirit of constitutional law and giving advice in this area. Various requests for opinion on Poland were submitted to the Council of Europe. Will the Venice Commission also investigate Poland?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u24	By fully adhering to your thoughts and conclusions on the previous question, I come back to the case of Poland. This is not the first time that I have asked you about the question of safeguarding European values threatened by certain Member States, particularly in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights. With regard to the liberticide laws recently passed by the Polish Conservative Government and on which we have had a debate in plenary, a preliminary inquiry has been launched into the legal changes in Poland. Dialogue is privileged before any sanction is taken. We know the sanctions, their scope and their effectiveness since another champion of our little Europe, President Orban, was also in the spotlight for the same reasons – except that it took the latter five years to accomplish what the Polish Conservatives did in a few weeks. It is important that the European Commission remains firm, the independence of the media and the courts are prerequisites for European democracy to be respected. When, then, will the results of the preliminary investigation which was recently opened in Poland be made public in order to examine all the relevant information and to assess whether there are clear indications of a systematic threat to the rule of law? How does the European Commission stand following the remarks made by the country's prime minister, Beata Szydlo, on 19 January, who merely reaffirmed, without the shadow of proof, that no measure by his government threatened democracy in Poland? What is the attitude of Belgian diplomacy towards the Polish authorities since the adoption of this law? What position did our country stand at the meeting on 13 January? And what position will Belgium take at the forthcoming European meetings? What is the status of the Commission's plans to better protect the rule of law in Poland?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland, following the accession of Prime Minister Szydlo, legislation on the Constitutional Court was amended. The agreement of two thirds of the judges is now required. 13 out of 15 judges must now be present for voting. Before that, there were nine. On the other hand, the media law was changed. The mandate of the Executive Board of the Public Media Supervisory Body was terminated. From now on, the Minister for Finance will decide on the fulfilment of these functions. The European Commission, through its Vice-President, Mr Timmermans, sent two letters asking the Polish authorities to explain these laws. It then decided to launch for the first time the procedure for monitoring the rule of law, which had been defined in a communication submitted in March 2014. This decision was taken on 13 January by the College of Commissioners and not within the Council of Ministers of the Union. Belgium therefore did not have to speak on the matter formally in the Council. But of course I support the initiatives taken. I had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the first Vice-President of the Commission whom I met before the last General Affairs Council. The procedure initiated by the Commission allows for dialogue with the Polish Government, which is objectifying the situation. A recommendation from the Commission may follow and, where appropriate, the evolution of its follow-up should be examined. For everything, the objective of the mechanism is to reach a solution through dialogue and consultation. The European Commission is expected to come back to this issue in mid-March. In particular, the opinion of the Council of Europe's Venice Commission should be available at that time. In general, Belgium supports the European Commission's approach and considers it legitimate. A few years ago, I had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Benelux on new legislation in Hungary, well before the debate on migration problems. The rule of law is one of the pillars of the European Union. By activating the monitoring procedure, the Commission is simply fulfilling its role as guardian of the Treaties. However, the mechanism activated by the Commission only plays in the event of a threat of systemic infringement of the rule of law. In the context of the European Union, however, there is a lack of a mechanism to review respect for the rule of law in the various Member States on a regular and serene basis. This seems to me to be a gap that we need to fill. For this reason, on the occasion of the General Affairs Council held on Tuesday, I proposed that a periodic review of respect for the fundamental values of the European Union be carried out within the Council. This would also allow us to avoid pointing a finger at a state when there are significant abuses and to systematically analyse the situation in all Member States. This does not prevent us from being more assertive when the situation is more serious in a particular State. I have seen this situation in budgetary terms: the fact of making recommendations every year to all Member States does not prevent us from going further in the debate for a particular State. In the budgetary field, I will quote Greece as an example. The Council of Europe also has a role to play. On 23 December 2015, my Polish colleague, on behalf of the Polish Government, submitted a question for advice to the Venice Committee of the Council of Europe on the constitutional issues contained in the two amendments to the Constitutional Court Act of 25 June 2015. This opinion is expected in mid-March. In addition, I can tell you that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Thorbjørn Jagland, the Polish President, Mr Andrzej Duda, has written about the new media legislation to which you refer. In his letter of 5 January 2016, Mr Jagland referred to a complaint lodged with the Council of Europe's media platform in this regard. It invites Poland to engage in dialogue with the relevant Council of Europe experts in press freedom, as guaranteed by Article 10 of the ECHR, before the President signs the contested bill. In the meantime, Mr Jagland has received a reply from the Polish President to this letter, in which he reiterates Poland's will to hold an open dialogue with the Council of Europe on this matter. Nils Muižnieks, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, has also called on the Polish President not to sign the bill as it stands. He will visit Poland in the coming days, together with a delegation from the Venice Commission. As you know, the OSCE representative for Freedom of the Media, Mrs Dunja Mijatović, has also expressed her concern. The existing monitoring mechanisms have so far played their part, and we will ensure that they continue to do so. We will first give an opportunity to open dialogue between Poland and all possible bodies of the European Union, the European Council, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, then we will react on the basis of any changes Poland may make. I believe that it is possible to achieve the same evolution as in Hungary a few years ago. There was then a real dialogue between Hungary and the European Commission, the Council of Europe and the OSCE in order to change the situation. As far as I am concerned, I think that all these procedures are very useful but only for extreme cases. They also cause tensions that are often too high at the start of the procedure. I therefore strongly advocate the establishment of a much more general mechanism to monitor the situation in all Member States and to point out more strongly the most serious cases, without, however, exempting each Member State from a concrete analysis of the situation of the rule of law within it. That is what I can tell you about the situation in Poland. I had the opportunity to meet my Polish counterpart before the previous Foreign Affairs Council. I expressed the same concerns to him and he then communicated to me his willingness to open the dialogue with the various bodies that had shared their comments. We will wait to see how this dialogue evolves. In this regard, I should like to make it clear that I understand the emotive effect of the new media legislation. However, the most worrying is the development of legislation concerning a constitutional court. Indeed, as often happens, media legislation could be challenged in a country by a constitutional body. If we change the control mechanism itself, this will pave the way for many other more worrying developments in different areas, not just the media. Without going into a comparison with the situation in any State of the European Union or even in a federated entity of a European State, it would be worth exchanging about the application of the principles of the rule of law, including in the media, of the 28 Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u26	I think it is right to point out at the end that we are working effectively on a more general and perhaps lighter mechanism, so that things can be monitored on a permanent basis. From your reply, I also understand that the various mechanisms at European level play a role and put things on the move. This also confirms the confidence we currently have in the mechanism that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u27	Mr President, I share this introspective view of the various Member States, with a particular focus on Poland. This procedure is ongoing. Obviously, we will have the results of this investigation procedure in mid-March. We will have to come back to the matter in this committee. The proposal was rejected pending the conclusion of the procedure. I think we need to be consistent. Let's wait for the conclusions and then go back to the file. As you mentioned, touching the Constitution is really much more serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u28	Minister, we would sometimes forget, but there is also a UN peacekeeping force in Europe, including a UN buffer zone. Since 1974, Cyprus has been a divided island with a green line as a border between the Turkish north and the Greek south. For some time now, we have been waiting hopefully for the outcome of the peace talks. A few weeks ago, the respective presidents at the World Economic Forum in Davos declared that an agreement was effectively within reach. If the talks succeed, we can speak of a historic peace agreement that would put an end to one of the most difficult ethnic conflicts in Europe. Minister, what is the state of these negotiations? How do you estimate the impact on the region if an agreement was reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u29	Mrs Claerhout, it is a fact that if the peace talks between the leaders of the Republic of Cyprus and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus declared in 1983 were to succeed, this would be an historic event. We are not yet ready, but it is true: it would be a positive event in a region where there are not so many positive events. Following the painful failure of the plan of then Secretary General Kofi Annan in 2004, there is now a significant positive development due to the sustained support and political will of Greek Cypriot leader Nikos Anastasiades and Turkish Cypriot leader Mustafa Akinci, who met on the margins of the World Economic Forum on 21 January 2016 in the presence of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. I had contact with my colleague from Cyprus at the last Gymnic meeting in Amsterdam. He was very positive about the talks in Davos and told me that they would now try to get to the hardest cases. As is often the case with negotiations, they have started to take a positive approach to a number of easier dossiers. Now it is time to really negotiate on the most difficult points. International support, including within the UN Security Council, also through the efforts of the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, Mrs Lisa Buttenheim, and the UN Special Adviser Espen Barth Eide, is equally essential. The same goes, of course, for Turkey's attitude, which is now clearly opting for a solution. Progress has been made in the areas of nationality, citizenship, federal government structures and the division of powers. It is also important to note the confidence-building measures that should include constructive cooperation between the EU and the UN. These include missing persons, additional border crossings, but also the objective of fully demining the island in 2016. Among the difficult issues are ownership issues, which seek a balance between property rights and compensation, security guarantees and territorial adjustments. I hope that it will be possible to make progress on the most difficult points, but we are very cautious about this. An agreement would certainly be a very positive signal for the region, including in other places. I have the same reasoning about a possible evolution in the Balkans. There are also many talks between different countries about a new name for one of the Balkan countries. A solution for a new name and perhaps for other points would be a very positive signal. We may be able to make very great progress in these two areas in 2016, but I remain very cautious. So far progress has been made on some easy points, but now a real negotiation process is beginning on the most difficult issues in relations between the two communities in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u30	Minister, I share that hope. It would indeed be a very good time this year, not only for the region but also for the European Union, if real progress were made. I can only encourage you, as I have already done in other cases, to scale up all your knowledge and expertise on federal government structures and the reconciliation of communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u31	Mr Minister, for several months now the authoritarian drift of Turkish President Erdogan has become increasingly obvious and worrying. Last example: on 15 January last, the Turkish authorities arrested and interrogated for more than a day some 20 academics who had " dared" to sign a petition known as the "Academic Initiative for Peace", which called for the end of the controversial, in any case very violent and brutal, operations of the army against the Kurdish rebellion of the PKK. In parallel with these targeted arrests, judicial investigations have been opened throughout Turkey against some 1,200 signatories of the petition for "terrorist propaganda", "insulting the institutions and the Turkish Republic" and "incitement to violate the law". These petitioners face between one and five years in prison. Indeed, Mr Erdogan simply accuses the signatories of being "traitors" and "complices of terrorists" for daring to denounce a deliberate and planned massacre in total violation of Turkish laws and international treaties signed by Turkey. In reaction, the power feeds an atmosphere of witch-hunting, threats and intimidation against the main signatories. About 10 universities have themselves initiated disciplinary proceedings against more than 60 professors or researchers. Mr Minister, do you intend to formally condemn this repression and attacks on freedom of expression, particularly against the academic world, which should remain a place where critical thinking is fully respected? Is it not appropriate to remind Mr Erdogan of certain fundamental principles, like the American ambassador in Ankara, who has not hesitated to say that "to express his concern about violence does not mean to support terrorism and to criticize the government is not a betrayal"? So far, the European Union's comments have been extremely measured in this respect, probably because of Ankara's role in the migrant crisis. In addition to these attacks on the academic world, other interventions by Mr Erdogan's government are extremely worrying. The media - newspapers, radios, television channels - a little too critical or independent are also the target of the regime. It will be recalled that just a few days before the parliamentary elections on 1 November, channels such as Bugün TV and Kanaltürk, as well as daily newspapers such as Millet and Bugün belonging to a media group close to the opposition, were prevented from appearing and broadcasting as a result of spectacular police operations. The authorities then imposed new leaders on these media advocating a new pro-Erdogan editorial line. I do not know if that is what you referred to in the previous question. That is extremely worrying. The NGO Human Rights Watch had deplored an unprecedented move since the 1980 coup, and Turkey fell to 149th out of 180 countries in the world's press freedom rankings, which Reporters Without Borders has established. My question is simple. Minister, how do you act on this issue? What is your analysis of the situation? How do you intend to act so that Turkey does not continue its drift and becomes an increasingly indefensible country? We do, however, need this country, but it is acting, both inside and outside, in a very worrying way today; I have read the latest statements by Mr Erdogan, who has just said that there is no question of stopping the bombings on the Kurds. This is an additional source of concern with regard to the direction that this government is increasingly taking, both within and outside its borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u32	Mr President, Minister, as Mr Dallemagne said a few weeks ago, Turkish federal prosecutors launched an investigation into 1,128 academics who co-signed a white card – something we often do here – asking the Turkish authorities to relaunch the political dialogue around the Kurdish question, and to put an end to the ongoing military actions in the south-east of the country. Rather than responding to the arguments put forward by these intellectuals, which are generally done in democracy, the Turkish authorities have arrested these people or, for some, have threatened to do so. Not all of them were arrested. These persons were arrested as the head of terrorist propaganda, incitement to hatred and violence and insulting the institutions of the Turkish Republic. Notwithstanding the ongoing legal proceedings, most of these academics have been forced to resign from their teaching and research positions. This political pressure on the academic world is unworthy of a rule of law, everyone will agree, and of what is expected of a candidate country that has to meet the Copenhagen criteria in the long run, which is the basis for accession to the European Union. At the same time, on 14 December last year, it is recalled that the Union was taking great pains to lift the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the Union, which was initiated in 2005 for a nomination paper submitted in 1987. This gesture by the European Union was granted in order to encourage Turkey to play a more important role in the "retention" of applicants for asylum to the European Union. Mr Minister, are the Turkish Government's recent initiatives towards this thousand intellectuals such as to encourage you to ask in Council for the suspension of Turkey's accession negotiations, which were relaunched at the end of last year? Indeed, arbitrary arrest or non-compliance with the fundamental right to freedom of expression is totally contrary to the Copenhagen criteria and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I would like to be clear: the Greens are in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union. But the Greens are against the accession of a country that does not meet the Copenhagen criteria. I want to be very clear about that. I don't want to say anything else. What bilateral and multilateral initiatives have you taken to mark Belgium's total disapproval of this unworthy initiative? Has Belgium taken any discreet initiatives to grant temporary protection to certain intellectuals at risk? You are used to doing so, I am thinking in particular of the case of Burundi at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you on the seriousness of the situation of civil liberties in Turkey, as illustrated by the recent attacks on freedom of the media and freedom of expression. The arrests in question are of great concern. In a climate of intimidation, freedom of expression, a fundamental right at the heart of the Copenhagen criteria, cannot be guaranteed. This must cause reactions. The necessary cooperation between the European Union and Turkey in dealing with the migration crisis must not exempt us from openly addressing other sensitive issues, including the need to undertake reforms in areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights. Following the summit between the European Union and Turkey on 29 November 2015, a high-level political dialogue was established between the European Union and Turkey. On the occasion of the first meeting of the dialogue, on 25 and 26 January 2016, the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, and Commissioner Johannes Hahn expressed their concern at the arrests of academics. Belgium's position is expressed at various levels: in the United Nations and European fora, both at European Union and Council of Europe level, in our bilateral relations with Turkey and very concretely on the ground in Ankara and Istanbul. Within the European Union, Belgium has long advocated the relaunching of preparations to open Chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law and fundamental rights. Mr Hellings, our analyses diverge, but in doing so, I remain convinced that we could give Turkey a comprehensive roadmap on the reforms to be carried out and thus have a mechanism for closely monitoring these reforms. I regret that, for years, European states have refused to open these chapters to negotiation. The opening of negotiations does not mean that we will agree that the situation is correct in Turkey, but it allows for a much stronger dialogue with Turkey, as with other partners. This makes it possible to have a roadmap and to verify the implementation of the reforms and thus systematically, including in these negotiations, to point out the concrete problems encountered. On the ground, our diplomatic posts take part in concrete solidarity initiatives to defend freedom of expression and in particular journalists. Our diplomats visited a journalist who was subjected to violent physical intimidation. They participated in press conferences to support imprisoned journalists. They have met with their lawyers and will be present at the hearings of the court before which these journalists are expected to appear in the coming days. A meeting was also held today in Istanbul with pursuing academics. These actions are passed on by the press and are a sign of our commitment to civil liberties in Turkey, which the Turkish Government itself has committed itself to respecting. These issues are also on the agenda of my discussions with my Turkish interlocutors. We will soon have an opportunity to meet in Ankara as part of an initiative that you took a few years ago to organize trilateral meetings between Foreign Ministers, Interior Ministers and Justice Ministers of the three countries. I'll come back in that context. I believe that it is necessary to be very aware that the debate we have with Turkey on the problem of migration, on the political solutions to be made in Syria, on its attitude towards the Kurdish people, whether on its own territory or beyond its borders, should not prevent us from engaging in a firm dialogue with that country. The same discourse should be given on the necessary and necessary reforms concerning human rights, in particular on the development of the situation on the ground in the context of intimidation of journalists, academics and other members of civil society. I am all the more encouraged to call for vigilance towards the Member States of the European Union. We will be all the more convincing towards partners like Turkey if we have the courage to conduct a similar debate between European States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u34	Mr Minister, I welcome the unambiguous terms that you have used in describing the situation as extremely serious. It is; you have to be very clear about it. Apart from the issue of human rights, there is deep instability in Turkey and we are on the brink of what could be called a civil war. Some think she's already here. In any case, the violence in the country causes many deaths. There is a risk of internationalisation – at the initiative of Turkey since it is now bombing the Kurds outside its borders and seems to link the difficult dialogue with the Kurds in its borders with the fate of those who are outside. This is very worrying for Turkey itself and for Europe because we are facing a new war home here. We already have two more, but this one would have its own dynamics. I am both concerned about the freedoms in Turkey and about the stability of all the people living there. I am of course counting on our diplomacy, your action, to have a very firm language towards Turkey, in its own interest. We can certainly open a more in-depth dialogue on the issues of fundamental freedoms, but it is difficult to understand that a country that so much evokes its frustration not to enter the European Union acts in such a brutal manner and contrary to the values of the European Union. Here too, a very paradoxical message is sent to us, which is not likely to prompt us to think that this country could quickly enter the European Union. I agree with you that we can open this dialogue with the countries that have opposed the dialogue with Turkey. I imagine you alluded to France from the time of President Sarkozy. We can certainly have this firm dialogue, but we must also understand that it is not by sending such catastrophic messages on fundamental freedoms that Turkey is very likely to be able to speed up the accession process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u35	Mr Minister, as you have pointed out, Belgium and the European Union must not be the victims of the blackmail which Turkey could exercise between, on the one hand, its role in the migration crisis and, on the other, its troubled play in respect of fundamental freedoms, human rights and the Kurdish question. Your condemnation is clear and unambiguous, which I welcome. I regret, however, that a few months ago our country paid such a great tribute to President Erdogan on his visit to our country. We would have done better to limit ourselves to a polite welcome. In our view, democratic Turkey could be seen as a European country. But the country's path to democracy is still long. In doing so, helping, as you do, Turkish Democrats to go in this direction is the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u36	Mr President, Minister, on 21 January 2016, at the Davos Forum, the German Finance Minister, Mr Schäuble, proposed that the European Union implement something similar to the Marshall Plan in favour of the countries of the Middle East, in particular Jordan and Lebanon, which are facing major socio-economic difficulties, while they welcome on their soil the vast majority of refugees from Syria and Iraq. According to the German Minister, this plan should enable regional economies to be stimulated and, in this way, help to better regulate and mitigate the flow of migrants to Europe. In the same vein, Mr Schäuble outlined a new strategy to strengthen trade with these countries and to increase German and European economic aid in order to encourage migrants' transit countries and countries of origin to cooperate more closely in managing migration flows. These proposals seem to me to be very sensible and sensible. Helping these countries and refugees "upstream", on the spot, is obviously more effective and more humane than trying to find urgent "downstream" solutions at our borders, when it is actually too late to act optimally. However, this idea of "something similar to the Marshall Plan" is still very vague and very theoretical. And we can easily imagine the difficulties that will have to be overcome in order to implement it. Minister, have your German counterparts presented this proposal to you in more detail? Is this a concrete initiative on the part of Germany? What would be the specific objectives? How could it be realized? On the basis of what budgets? With what participation from the European Union and Member States including Belgium? Thank you for your reaction to this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u37	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, like you, I have read the words of the German Finance Minister. The Plan Partnership for Prospects, Jobs and Skills was presented by Germany at the Syria Conference on 4 February 2016 in London. The plan focuses on job creation for Syrian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq. Local populations also benefit from this. The objective of this initiative is to create 500,000 jobs in the region. Germany will spend EUR 200 million on this plan. A comparison can also be made with what our Jordanian colleague had come to explain to the European Foreign Ministers on a new economic zone to be created in Jordan to allow there too the establishment of enterprises to provide employment to refugees as well as to local populations and, thanks to this, to stabilize the situation of the population in better conditions than is the case today through the reception in the camps. At this stage, we are ready to consider this plan constructively. It is clear that Belgium shares the objectives of the German project, namely to help the countries of the Middle East and Turkey to cope with the migration crisis and to receive refugees with dignity by providing them with decent life prospects. This includes employment and educational opportunities. I would also like to welcome the few openings that have just taken place in Turkey on this subject – it must be acknowledged – by allowing access to the "legal" labour market. Access to illegal work was already quite common. As you know, Belgium is already making an important humanitarian effort to deal with the migration crisis in the region. During 2015, our budget increased sharply to more than 50 million for Syrian and Iraqi refugees in the region. A new commitment of $75 million for 2016-17 was announced in London by the Prime Minister. At European level, in addition to the action plan between the European Union and Turkey, our institutions are preparing packages of measures to Jordan and Lebanon, including a financial component and other measures, particularly with regard to preferential access to the European market in a limited way. Having received our Jordanian colleague, we have just received our Lebanese colleague at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. I asked him about the possibilities of also developing access to the labour market in Lebanon in order to stabilize populations already present. As you certainly know, Lebanon is experiencing an increasing number of refugees on its territory, which is reaching a certain capacity limit, as there are now almost as many children of Syrian origin as there are of Lebanese origin in schools. It is still significant if we compare this to the debates we sometimes have on migration in our countries in Europe. Preferential access to the European market needs to be analysed, as is currently the case with the SPF Economy in Belgium. This sometimes applies to sectors for which we are also very active. I think we should open up this preferential access to enable people to stabilise through access to the labour market. In general, I can only support efforts to create a common European response to the crucial issue of migration. We are still waiting for more concrete elements to indicate what can be done more precisely, including in opening up the European market to products from these regions. We are already doing so in part through the action plan for Turkey and Belgium insists that the financial support granted to Turkey in this context should be in line with concrete actions by the Turkish authorities. Of course, we are asking for a certain reciprocity in the commitments. But, I repeat, the proposals made by my former German Finance colleague are in the right direction. If people everywhere are to be stabilized, they must be given access to the labour market in one way or another. It is in this sense that our German colleagues are mobilising, as they do, including in Syria and Iraq, even in the context of the reconquest of territories. If we are once again to stabilize the situation by organizing the reconquest of certain territories owned by Daesh or other terrorist groups, we must very quickly stabilize the situation by providing services (water, electricity, but also education, security) and, if possible, very quickly, a return to the labour market. It is also more complicated in the context of reconstruction, but in countries such as Syria and Iraq, it is quite possible through such initiatives. We will therefore examine the extent to which we can support such an approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is important to support this initiative, as it goes beyond humanitarian aid. It will thus, if successful, stabilize these populations. I think the needs are enormous and would allow tens of thousands of people to work for access to water, infrastructure, housing, etc. All these people who have migrated have, in fact, significant needs. The development of temporary infrastructure must be encouraged, which would allow them to be stabilized and improve their socio-economic situation. I can only welcome your support for this initiative in the weeks and months ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u39	Mr President, Minister, last year's counter-offensive by the armed forces of the various countries of the Lake Chad region would have succeeded in reducing the means of action of the Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram. In the absence of sufficient capabilities, this would replace mass offensives with a strategy of targeted attacks. This is reflected in the wave of unprecedented attacks in Cameroon since the beginning of this year 2016. According to Yaoundé, the abuses committed by the terrorist movement Boko Haram have resulted in the death of 1,200 people since 2013 in Cameroon. The extreme north of the territory, border of the Nigerian state of Borno, the fief of the terrorist movement, serves as a rear base for the jihadists and would be subject to regular raids and looting. In addition to the numerous attacks and acts of violence committed by Boko Haram in Nigeria since 2009, which have killed more than 17,000 people and displaced more than 2 million people. Minister, how do you assess the current situation of Boko Haram, its recruitment capacity and the evolution of the conflict in this area of Lake Chad? Are you considering strengthening our country's participation in European and international efforts in the fight against this radical Islamist movement? Do you think that the Nigerian authorities have put in place sufficient resources to provide a credible political response to Boko Haram's proselytism? The French President plans to hold an international meeting in Abuja next May. Does Belgium intend to send a political message to this conference? What are your expectations with respect to this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u40	Mr President, Minister, since 2013, more than a thousand people, most civilians, have been killed in attacks by the terrorist group Boko Haram on the territory of Cameroon and Nigeria. Cameroonian, Nigerian, Chadian and Nigerian armies have jointly succeeded since early 2015 in repelling the terrorist organization and significantly reducing its influence in the region. The terrorists were chased into their dens and had to change their strategy by abandoning large-scale attacks, asking them for resources that were now too large, in favour of far more targeted attacks. Indeed, since the beginning of last summer, Cameroon and Nigeria have faced a new wave of suicide bombings, with the singularity of being mostly perpetrated by women. Some 32 of these attacks are aimed at crowded areas such as markets or places of worship. The months of January and February were particularly murderous, with no later than Tuesday, February 9, a double suicide bombing killing 58 people in northeastern Nigeria. The current porosity with the Islamic State can turn to Boko Haram's advantage. The threat is international and the urgency is therefore to cut the bridge between these two terrorist organizations as quickly as possible. Minister, could you inform us of developments in the region, as well as of developments in the establishment of the Boko Haram Group and its relations with the Islamic State? According to the information you have, what are the new strategies deployed by the Cameroonian, Nigerian, Chadian and Nigerian army to deal with the advance of the terrorist group? How are relations between neighbouring countries in the area threatened by Boko Haram evolving? What about the humanitarian situation in these regions? What are the means used to protect civilians? What is the position of the various international forums and coalitions and what initiatives are being taken to help these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year Boko Haram made allegiance to Daesh. In fact, we are talking about a virtually franchise system in a number of other regions. The increasing presence of Daesh in Libya could have the effect of strengthening Boko Haram's logistical capabilities, as there is a shift towards Libya, as well as influencing its strategy and ideology to become a fully jihadist organization. The Boko Haram organization recruits without difficulty among the youth of this historically deprived and neglected region through networks of personal influence. Despite the combined efforts of the countries of the region, which formed the Multinational Joint Task Force to fight more effectively against Boko Haram, and a substantial intensification of the military league, this movement continues to regularly attack isolated villages to commit atrocities. This is reflected in the double suicide bombing on 9 February by two women suicide bombers in the Dikwa internally displaced persons camp, which killed 58 people. I immediately condemned this attack and expressed Belgium's solidarity with the Nigerian government and people as well as with the many victims of terrorism in the region. At the humanitarian level, the combined effect of insecurity and vulnerability of the underlying populations translates into a record number of internally displaced persons (two million inside Nigeria). In December 2015, OCHA estimated that 9.1 million people (almost one in three) needed emergency assistance and protection, that 4.4 million people needed emergency food assistance in the Lake Chad basin, with 90% of them in northern Nigeria. Some 20 humanitarian organizations and NGOs are currently on site with all the risks to the safety of their personnel. Belgium participates in the European Union's efforts in the Lake Chad region, in particular through logistical support from the Multinational Joint Task Force of up to EUR 50 million. In addition, a large-scale programme for the economic development of the lake region is currently being developed by the World Bank, the United Nations and the European Union, in which Belgium will participate through its contribution to these international organisations. The President of Nigeria, Mr Buhari, made the fight against Boko Haram and the proselytism of this organisation a major priority of his presidential mandate, as he reminded the European Parliament in early February. At the bilateral level, Nigeria and Cameroon have had their border disputes. However, new President Buhari made a state visit to Cameroon in 2015. Good military cooperation in the border areas of both countries is crucial because there is no right of cross-border prosecution. We will continue to advocate for this collaboration between the two countries in the region. We will also continue to support the efforts being undertaken by several international organizations to develop programmes to encourage economic progress in the region. Finally, we will see how we can continue to assist the Nigerian authorities in combating insecurity and protecting particularly vulnerable populations in certain parts of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u42	Mr President, it is not particularly necessary to comment, except for the fact that, as I was able to see a few years ago, this region certainly did not need such conflicts. We see that this phenomenon is spreading. I welcome the efforts Belgium is prepared to make to strengthen the state structures in Nigeria. This seems to me all the more important as the attacks that have been carried out in recent months are increasing and there is a real need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u43	Mr President, it is complicated because we are helping the Nigerian government, there are a lot of displaced people because the situation inside the country is really dramatic. The latest suicide bomber, who killed several dozen people, was seven years old. What's going on over there is really horrible. Although we are helping the government, people will continue to pile up in refugee camps. For these tens of thousands of people, urgent aid measures are really needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the press reported that the brother-in-law of a well-known Belgian jihadist had been trained at Electrabel in order to become a driver at the Doel nuclear power plant in this case. After showing signs of radicalisation, the individual was eventually dismissed. The National Security Authority (NSA) is also competent to issue security clearances for private companies on Belgian territory. For example, post applicants in contact with sensitive sites must screen with the NSA. Minister, can you remind us of the various stages of the screening of the ANS, which has been strengthened in the context of the fight against terrorism? Since recent terrorist threats, the workload of the NSA has certainly increased. Has the workforce been revised upwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u45	Minister, you are responsible for the National Security Authority (ANS), the competent institution in Belgium to issue or withdraw authorizations, certificates and security notices. In this context, I also learned in the daily L'Écho on 27 January that more and more Belgian companies are using the services of the ANS to certify or screen their employees working in sensitive sectors. The article in question referred to Fluxys, Elia, Electrabel, STIB or Brussels Airport. In the unprecedented context of the attacks committed all over the world, but also on our continent in recent months, it is indeed very important that these sensitive sectors for the safety and health of Belgians be protected. The aim is to prevent people with criminal intentions from using their position in these companies to commit an attack with human and environmental consequences – all too often forgotten – irreparable. Can I find out how many accreditations or certifications were issued by the ANS to employees of Belgian private companies in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015? As for the accreditation process, what other federal institutions are involved in this process? In what order of importance? In the article in L'Écho I quoted, one expert believes that we need to "change data management and have a more proactive approach". What is this data management? Could you please explain to me all the databases that the NSA is mobilizing to establish its accreditations? Does the NSA use the so-called big data and data mining methods to establish its authorizations? What safeguards and procedures has the NSA developed to ensure that the accreditation process is not diverted to an ethnic profiling that would then amount to a form of discrimination in hiring?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u46	Minister, I have the same question but with a different starting point since my attention is more specifically to the Brussels Intercommunal Transport Society (STIB). I had already asked your colleagues from the Interior and Justice in December about screening issues. They are the ones who have directed me to you from the moment when what concerns the NSA falls within your jurisdiction. I know you're strengthening it and we need to thank you for that. I also know that in the context of the work of the ANS, the security officers of Infrabel, SNCB and STIB had been sensitized by the federal police. I am asking you today because I was amazed at the comments made by the Director General of STIB on January 25, 2016. In an interview relayed by a media, he says: " STIB is in the image of the Region. I'm not going to pretend that, out of 8,000 collaborators, no one ever posed this kind of problem. On the other hand, to determine who objectively poses a security problem is not within our competence (...) That people are radicalised, it is not up to us to determine it or even to know it." I am particularly concerned about this. He goes on to say: "It is the responsibility of justice, of security, in short of the authorities. It's not ours." I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the measures taken within the State, in partnership with the human resources of public institutions, particularly within STIB, to ensure that no radicalised people are hired and to identify those who are already working there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity for me to re-establish the role of my department in all of these security analyses, which are primarily a coordinating role. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, if this competence is to be found in Foreign Affairs, it is to coordinate the work of a number of services, since we are working in a collegial manner. Foreign Affairs is chairing a college bringing together the various intelligence services and the police services, in an attempt to provide an answer in this area. This is useful because, if not, there would probably be conflicts between intelligence services, as has been the case in the past between police services. Foreign affairs play their usual role, as they do in other policies. The National Security Authority (NSA) is the collegiate authority responsible for issuing, refusing or withdrawing clearances, certificates and security notices. The NSA is also responsible for the management and protection of classified information. The functioning and composition of the NSA are defined in the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and clearances, certificates and safety notices. This authority is composed, as I have just pointed out, of representatives of several federal bodies acting in accordance with their own powers: the State Security, the General Intelligence and Security Service, the Federal Police, the FPS Economy, the General Administration of Customs and Excise, the Directorate General of Air Transport, the Crisis Centre, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and the FPS Foreign Affairs, which presides over it and in which its secretariat is established, in charge of the coordination of the staff and means of the NSA, which are expanding with the aim of covering its missions. In addition, a staffing enhancement project is currently under consideration within the budget that the Government wishes to unblock in the fight against terrorism. It should be noted that the expansion of the workforce is not only at the level of Foreign Affairs but also and above all, of course, at the level of support services that conduct investigations and audits. This is particularly the case for State Security. We have had this debate in the recent budget arbitrations on the provision for security and, more specifically, the fight against terrorism. A distinction must be made between security clearances and security checks, also known as screenings. The NSA provides security clearances to Belgian companies and their staff whose function requires access to classified information and to relevant high-risk areas, such as nuclear sites. The extent of the security investigation carried out by the intelligence services, in compliance with their tasks as determined by the Intelligence and Security Services Act, depends on the level of classification requested and is determined by the National Security Council. It should be noted that survey methods fall solely within the competence of the respective college services. The intelligence services can consult the databases mentioned in the 1998 Act, including the central criminal record maintained by the FPS Justice, the criminal record and population register maintained by the municipalities, or the police data accessible when carrying out identity checks. Neighborhood surveys may also be carried out. In 2015, the NSA processed approximately 7,900 individual security clearance applications. This number has been more or less stable in recent years. We stay in the same order of magnitude. A security check or screening may be carried out by the NSA at the request of an administrative authority where the function of the person requires access to premises, buildings or sensitive sites. The security verification consists of the consultation and evaluation of judicial and police data and intelligence information. The risk assessment is not only based on the signals of radicalism but also takes into account the facts of violations of common rights. In 2015, nearly 31,000 security verification requests were submitted to the NSA. Most of the security checks concerned the issuance of airport identification badges and access to European summits. In addition, where the NSA manages all applications for authorisation, only about one third of the annual verifications carried out in Belgium are carried out through the NSA, the rest being carried out by other administrative authorities on their own behalf, be it the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, the Federal Police, the SGRS or the State Security. With regard to the screening of public enterprises – I would like to make it clear, whatever the statements made by one or the other head of a public undertaking – it is primarily the responsibility of the public undertakings themselves to develop a culture of safety within them and to ensure the proper behaviour of their employees, among other things through consultation with open sources. It is important to note that the security check is only a photograph of a situation frozen in time and cannot be considered as the panacea. With regard to other Belgian public undertakings, whose staff are not currently subject to a security check, in particular STIB staff, work is currently under way by the various bodies that make up the NSA in order to determine a legal framework and the budgetary and general implications for society of the implementation of such screening. This exercise is also part of a broader work under the government agreement with the aim of modernising and optimizing the legal framework and procedures within the NSA, in order to ensure effective procedures that aim both at the optimal protection of the State's interests and at respect for the individual and his/her privacy. Finally, it should be noted that in Belgium, each person investigated or verified under the Act of 11 December 1998 must give his or her prior consent. Therefore, against each decision, certificate or negative opinion of the NSA, an appeal may be lodged with the body provided for that purpose within the Standing Committee R, which shall preside over and register that body with regard to the authorization, attestation and security advice enabling and guaranteeing democratic legitimacy and a contradictory aspect in these fields. The link with Parliament is therefore obvious. I would like to add that, as often, and as you will have noticed, dramatic events lead to more security-based parliamentary and government thinking. I have requested and obtained, in the context of the recent budgetary work on the provision that the government had announced in terms of combating terrorism, important resources – of the order of EUR 14 million, it seems to me – to strengthen the IT tools of the NSA and the staff in charge of the secretariat, while knowing that in parallel, others have also been allocated to information-providing services, such as the State Security Service or the police. I will be very clear on the role of the various actors. It is clear that administrative authorities and public and private enterprises must first play an internal role in preventing and combating anything that could be linked to possible activities involving ordinary crime, but above all terrorism. This involves risk analyses to determine which personnel and locations are particularly targeted. Of course, the collection of information is equally essential, including through open means on computer networks, in relation to candidates for positions that could be critical or provide access to sensitive places. We obviously add this more specific approach to the NSA when the analysis leads to a request for its intervention. Therefore, responsibilities are shared. However, it is not up to any public authority or even any company manager to exonerate themselves from their own safety prevention responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u48	Mr President, I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answer. I would like to say to Mr Pivin that security and the fight against great banditry fall within the competence of the federal level. This does not mean that administrations should not be careful when recruiting, but the fight against terrorism is a federal responsibility and therefore concerns the federal police, the State Security, the intelligence services, the army, etc. In fact, Minister, your competence is in the area of coordination, and I am pleased that this means that the databases you are mobilizing are those of the police, the State Security, etc. So these are not data mining types, which reassures me. You talked about screening and certification of employees in critical companies. The advantage of the renewable energy sector is that you do not have to control your employees, for example in connection with the construction of a wind turbine. Conversely, if a nuclear power plant is built, all employees must be monitored. This is another advantage, other than the ecological one, of renewable energies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u49	Minister, an article on large-scale passport fraud in Europe was published on Politico's news website on 28 January. It reports that the United States Homeland Security Department is concerned about the large numbers of stolen or forged passports in circulation in Europe and that it would have warned five countries about this. If these countries do not resolve their crucial passport problems by 1 February 2016, the United States would suspend visa-free travel for citizens from those countries. In addition to Italy, Greece, Germany and France, Belgium is also mentioned in this article as one of the possible countries that would have warned the US about this. It goes without saying that a suspension of visa-free travel to the United States by Belgians would have serious consequences. I have two questions about this. Can you confirm that Belgium has indeed received this warning from the United States? If so, what are the specific problems encountered by the United States with these Belgian passports? How many forgeries are we talking about in concrete terms? How have these problems been solved? Were they resolved by February 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u50	Mr President, Minister, currently 38 countries have access to the territory of the United States without the systematic need to be in possession of a visa, for business or tourism trips. Belgium is one of them. According to some media reports, the United States could extend the requirement of possession of a visa to nationals of some of the 38 countries currently exempt from this administrative requirement. This would be aimed at Belgium. These changes could have an impact on our image as well as on our economy. Minister, does the Foreign Affairs Department confirm this information? Have any contacts with his US counterpart been made with regard to this possible regulatory change? Is it true that the decision to impose this additional obligation would be conditional on the introduction by the country concerned of a new passport control procedure, as well as an exchange of identification data? If so, are these conditions already fulfilled within the Belgian services? Does this include the collection and transmission of biometric data?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u51	Firstly, Belgium has not received a warning in this sense from the US. The information in Politico's article is therefore not correct. By the way, the American Embassy has confirmed to my service that the US does not intend to send such a warning either. Consequently, Mr Vandenput's supplementary questions are without object. The Belgian passport is known as one of the safest in the world. In case of a declaration of theft or loss of a Belgian passport, this is immediately ended at national and international level. That's not what I'm worried about. So far, we haven't received any other signals from the American embassy. Mr.Pivin, the Department of Homeland Security announced the coming into force on January 21, 2016 of one of the provisions of the new legislation to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program. These are restrictions on the benefit of this programme and therefore on the imposition of the visa requirement for persons who have travelled since 1 March 2011 in one of the following four countries: Syria, Iraq, Iran and Sudan, as well as for binationals from one of the above-mentioned countries. However, the partner State agent of the programme is covered by a general visa exemption, even though he has recently travelled to one of the four countries mentioned above. It is clear that our diplomats visiting these areas should not fall under the new provision. An exemption on application for a visa for the United States may also be granted on a case-by-case basis to certain categories of travellers. These are those who have travelled to Iran, Iraq, Syria and/or Sudan, on an official mission for an international, regional or sub-national organisation, on an official mission for a humanitarian NGO, as a reporter. The exemption is also provided for persons who have travelled to Iran for legitimate commercial purposes since the conclusion of the international agreement on Iran's nuclear programme on 14 July 2015, as well as for persons who have travelled to Iraq for legitimate commercial purposes. At present, however, the maintenance of the programme is not conditional on the implementation of a new passport control procedure or the organisation of an exchange of identification data. We find ourselves, on the one hand, in the context of incorrect information and, on the other hand, in the context of information which is largely exaggerated in relation to the reality which I have just described to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u52	Mr President, Minister, at the time of writing, twenty-one of the fifty-five countries on the American continent are already affected by the zika virus spread by a mosquito bite. Its spread is likely to increase rapidly. The virus is potentially dangerous and is suspected of causing microcephaly in the foetus. Pregnant women would therefore be considered particularly vulnerable. The World Health Organization (WHO) advises pregnant or expectant women not to visit the countries concerned. However, Belgian citizens preparing to travel abroad do not seem to have all the necessary health information on these destinations. Minister, what exactly is this threat? Is there a specific list of countries where caution is required in relation to the zika virus? Does the Belgian Government intend to disseminate official health recommendations and take ad hoc measures for our compatriots who have already left or are about to leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, like the dengue virus, the zika virus is a flavivirus transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus Aedes that sting during the day. There is no specific treatment or vaccine against this virus. A few cases suggest that there may be other possible modes of transmission. The acute symptoms of infection with this virus are similar to those of influenza. The virus is therefore not a priori dangerous. However, some studies link this virus to microcephaly malformations in infants. The only prevention is the adoption of conventional protective measures against mosquito bites such as long sleeves and trousers and the use of repellents. Currently, the virus is prevalent mainly in Central and South America and the Caribbean. The FPS Crisis Centre Foreign Affairs has a list of affected countries based on information obtained from the Institute of Tropical Medicine, the World Health Organization, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as the FPS Public Health and diplomatic posts established in the region. In consultation with the Public Health FPS and the Institute of Tropical Medicine, we have taken – and I have already had the opportunity to communicate on this – the decision to adapt the travel notices of all the countries of Central and South America and the Caribbean. If you go to the Foreign Affairs website, you will find this adaptation on each of the travel notices. We recommend that pregnant women postpone their journey. With regard to a recommendation, if this trip cannot be postponed, we invite them to contact their doctor before departure and take all necessary precautions to protect themselves from mosquito bites. We continue to follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization and our other partners. We are in regular contact with all of our relevant posts in order to have an overview of the current situation on the ground and of the measures taken by the relevant local authorities. I have had the opportunity to communicate this information through the press and I confirm that the message is very clear: this message does not recommend any trip to the region for pregnant women. This remains an opinion and it is always possible not to follow it. For those who have important reasons to travel to the region, we recommend contacting the attending physician to see what action is required. In terms of information, the Department's website contains a series of recommendations. In Belgium, we have the chance to have other institutions able to give recommendations, such as the Institute of Tropical Medicine or the Public Health FPS. I believe that the information has been disseminated very widely in Belgium and the opinion is very clear. This is not a remark, it is a notice that does not recommend travel to the area for anyone who is likely to suffer the more serious consequences of the virus. This is the case for pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u54	Minister, thank you for your full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u55	Mr President, this is another question that I had the opportunity to address this morning with our colleagues in the Knesset. You are aware that the Israeli Ministry of Defense has just approved plans for the construction of 153 new housing units in settlements in the occupied West Bank, according to the Israeli organization Peace Now, opposed to colonization. This is the first time in about a year and a half that the government has approved important plans for new constructions in the West Bank, according to the NGO. Israel is also in the process of annexing 150 hectares of agricultural land to the Jordan Valley in the occupied West Bank. This intensification of colonization was denounced in January by the European Union, which declared itself firmly opposed to the Israeli settlement policy. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. How did Belgium stand in the face of this announcement of the Israeli authorities' continued colonization? Could these new Israeli decisions and this renewed condemnation by the international community change your decision on the timing of the recognition of the Palestinian State? I'm not losing hope!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u56	The announcement of the decision by the Israeli authorities to appropriate 154 hectares of agricultural land near Jericho in the West Bank is a matter of great concern. This news is all the more worrying because it is accompanied by other developments, such as the announcement concerning the construction of 153 new housing units in the settlements. Belgium's position on this subject is constant and has not been changed. We consider these settlements to be illegal under international law and an obstacle to peace. They are endangering the search for a two-State solution, as I pointed out this morning to the Knesset parliamentary delegation before it joins you in Parliament. It goes without saying that Belgium will not recognise any changes at the 1967 borders, except those which would be approved by both parties. This position of Belgium corresponds to that of the European Union and I urge you to read the conclusions on the PPMO which we adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council in January. You will find that they are without any ambiguity on this point. Belgium has actively participated in the negotiation of these conclusions and, of course, fully supports them. I would also like to draw your attention to the statement I issued jointly with my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister for Development Cooperation Alexander De Croo. We discussed the latest settlement announcements you mentioned, as well as other worrying developments. I am thinking here of the resurgence of the destruction of homes and structures in zone C, including structures refinanced by the European Union as part of its humanitarian action. We recalled in this communiqué that these destructions affect a large number of people, including vulnerable people, including children. In line with the conclusions of the January Foreign Affairs Council, we called on the Israeli authorities to put an end to these destructions, to prevent further demolition or confiscation and to ensure respect for international humanitarian law, as well as unhindered access to vulnerable populations of local and international humanitarian organizations. With regard to the repetition of your request for recognition of the Palestinian State, I refer you to my many earlier replies on this subject. These are all the more relevant as we have announced our support for a proposal to be considered at European level. This was formulated by my previous French colleague Laurent Fabius before he left the government. However, it was confirmed by its successor Jean-Marc Ayrault and concerns an initiative that France intends to take in an attempt to revive a framework for dialogue between the Israeli and Palestinian authorities. I have discussed this again this morning with representatives of the Knesset and I will have an opportunity to discuss it again in the coming months, since I intend to schedule a visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories once again. I refer you to my previous answers. Our wish is to be able to use at some point the debate on recognition as a means of action in a genuine dialogue between the Israeli and Palestinian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u58	PPMO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u59	All right. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u60	Mr President, Minister, in a January 2016 report, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is alarmed, in particular, by an increase in sexual violence in Burundi. Perpetrated by the security services during the search operations, these abuses are said to have increased as a result of attacks on the military camps in mid-December 2015. According to the Burundian Minister of Human Rights, this phenomenon is not political. It would be lies and rumors. But the United Nations claims that the victims would not be chosen at random. The Ambassador of Burundi, whom we received in the Committee on External Relations, seemed to be holding the same speech and was openly minimising the facts. He drowned the fish a little by telling us that a United Nations commission of inquiry would be sent to the site in the following days and that it could shed all the light on what was happening on the ground. This committee of inquiry was not able to visit the premises, as you know, since visas were not granted. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you have more and clearer information on this serious situation on the ground? Does the international community intend to take specific measures in this context? Does Belgium intend to take any initiatives to try to protect these women and girls in this particular context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u61	Mr President, Minister, at the last summit of the African Union, Burundi was again at the heart of all the discussions. As part of this exchange, he decided to focus on discussions with Bujumbura and to post the dispatch of a preventive mission to protect civilians in Burundi. A very high-level delegation is due to visit Burundi shortly to decide to send this force with the current government. The sending of this mission, however, seems essential given the escalation of violence in recent days. Since the beginning of the conflict, more than 400 people have been killed and more than 230,000 people have had to leave the country. Bujumbura is still the scene of numerous extra-judicial executions and regular night clashes. According to Amnesty, there are five mass graves in the suburbs of Bujumbura. Two Western journalists were briefly arrested. Minister, as you have recently indicated, there is an urgent need to put an end to the current violence. In an interview you gave for RFI, you voted for the resumption of the dialogue and you guaranteed that the Belgian Government will do everything possible to resume this dialogue. Can you tell me what the current leads are when you know that the attempt at dialogue in Uganda seems to be a failure? In the same interview, you considered that Belgium should take part in an intervention force under the aegis of the United Nations or the African Union if the situation were to deteriorate further. Can you tell me if any such contacts have already been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u62	Mr President, Minister, as far as Burundi is concerned, in addition to the court executions and forced annexation in rebel groups, the UN reports gang rapes involving Burundian security personnel. I have a few questions about this. Are you aware of that? Have your on-site services been able to provide you with more information about this? I am particularly concerned about the training of Burundian agents which would have been achieved by Belgian-Burundese cooperation. What was that training? Was this training concerned with human rights, in particular women's rights? Were the problems of rape considered as a weapon of war?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u63	Mr President, my answer may be a little longer, but not too long. Burundi has, unfortunately, been a very important dossier for some time now. First of all, with regard to dialogue, as highlighted in the questions, as well as in those of Mr Crusnière and Mrs Jadin, the political solution to the Burundian crisis is slow to develop. Everyone camps in their positions and does not seem ready for major concessions. The internal dialogue set up by President Nkurunziza is not sufficiently inclusive and the dialogue facilitated by the region is progressing slowly. With regard to this dialogue under the aegis of the East African Community, despite these difficulties, it still enjoys our support because it is important that the region be involved in resolving the crisis. A date has yet to be set for the next meeting and we hope that the East African Community summit at the end of the month will unlock things. In accordance with the decision taken by the African Union at its last summit, a high-level mission consisting of South African, Gabonese, Mauritanian and Senegalese heads of State, as well as the Ethiopian Prime Minister, will visit Burundi on 25 and 26 February. This meeting with President Nkurunziza should try to push him to make some gestures to revive the dialogue and relax the situation. A mission of African parliamentarians supported by the Association of European Parliamentarians Partners in Africa (AWEPA) is also expected to visit the country in the near future. In addition to these regional efforts, I am also in favour of a role for the United Nations in mediation through the Special Adviser to Secretary-General Jamal Benomar. This could give the process a new dynamic. I understand that the Burundian authorities are not opposed to it. President Nkurunziza has even written a letter to the President of the Security Council to that effect. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon planned to visit Burundi at the end of the month. A draft resolution of the Security Council is under preparation. With regard to the security situation, the impasse in political dialogue allows violence to take root. This violence is pervasive in Burundi and mainly in Bujumbura. The armed rebellion is structured, with the creation of two Forebu and RED-Tabara groups. This may raise concerns about an acceleration of the cycle of violence. Indeed, a civil war in Burundi and massive violence would have repercussions throughout the region. In fact, the security situation has already had an impact. I would remind you that there are more than 230,000 Burundian refugees in the surrounding countries. Tensions between Rwanda and Burundi are increased on the basis of accusations of Rwandan support for the rebels. The United Nations expert report refers to the recruitment and training of Burundian refugees in Rwanda to carry out destabilizing actions in Burundi, which is also a matter of concern. Following international criticism on this subject, the Rwandan authorities announced last Friday that they were planning to relocate Burundian refugees to other countries. It is a worrying development and it shows how sensitive the subject is. In the DRC, too, there are tensions related to the presence of Burundians on the ground of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This has recently led to tensions in the Burundian refugee camp in Lusenda. Burundian rebels have reportedly been arrested in recent weeks in eastern DRC. Undeniably, and history has shown, violence can quickly spread from one country to another in the region. I can tell you that with regard to the Belgians in Burundi, our embassy has a regularly updated crisis plan. There are currently 349 Belgians on site. The embassy has the contact data of our compatriots and can reach them via a text message system or via radio communication. There is no planned evacuation at this stage, but I would remind you that our travel notice once again advises all Belgians present in Burundi to leave the country as long as normal conditions permit. Recent developments in the security situation do not support the relaxation of the travel notice. With regard to the interposition force referred to, of course, participation by Belgium could only be made within the framework of a mandate of the African Union or the United Nations. This could be essentially logistical assistance or information exchange, which I have specified in the interviews to which you referred. In any event, the sending of troops to the field is not on the agenda. You know the content of the recommendations of the 1997 Rwanda Commission. Beyond the case of Burundi, I remain in favour of a broader debate on this subject, not that I would like troops to be necessarily sent, but in any case that we should be given the opportunity to reflect on our participation in one or the other action if the request were to be addressed to us, and this, I repeat, within the framework of a mandate of the African Union or the United Nations, starting with rather logistical support and information exchange. I would add that we have not yet been contacted, as the African Union has, as you have recalled, finally retreated from the dispatch of an African preventive and protective mission. We are, of course, following this issue very carefully. As far as human rights are concerned, Mrs Grovonius, I have indeed taken note of these serious allegations of sexual violence by High Commissioner Zeid's communiqué of 15 January 2016. There are 13 cases of rape committed during the repression operations of 11 and 12 December 2015 and other cases of rape committed since then, without specifying the number. Unfortunately, we did not get more information on this issue. It should be noted that the observation of human rights violations is still very difficult in Burundi. Thus, the Burundian authorities have still not granted visas to the three UN experts responsible for investigating mainly the events of 11 and 12 December 2015. This expert mission is the main element of the UN Human Rights Council Resolution on Burundi adopted on 17 December 2015. As I mentioned, the Secretary-General intends to visit Burundi at the end of the month and will no doubt raise the question of those three experts who have not yet been allowed to return to Burundi. Belgium and its main partners in the international community called for an impartial and credible investigation into human rights violations in Burundi. The United Nations and the African Union have on-site observers, but not enough. Negotiations continue with the Burundian authorities to accept an increase in the number of these international observers. As for NGOs and journalists, as you know, their work is extremely difficult. Human rights violations and the lack of an impartial investigation into these violations are among the reasons why the European Union intends to take action on its development assistance, given the failure of the consultations (Article 96 in the framework of the Cotonou Agreements). Progress in these areas is likely to be required from the Burundian authorities. Mrs Bellens, you will understand that in this context I find it difficult to answer your question about the possible involvement of police officers trained by Belgium in acts of sexual violence. We do not have sufficient information on these events. We have virtually lost contact with the Burundi police since the closure of the police project. The reason for this cessation was precisely the attitude of the police forces in the context of repression. For the precise content of our former police project, I would like to refer you to Mr De Croo. However, I can confirm that we are prepared to have a real investigation carried out. So far we do not have precise facts or information. I repeat, we are asking for an independent investigation. We are prepared to give the necessary support. As I have pointed out in relation to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, individual sanctions are being developed within the European framework. It is possible that in the near future their current list may be expanded. Records are being prepared. These sanctions would target both relatives of power and members of the armed opposition, since the main objective is to put an end to the spiral of violence. The timing of the announcement of these measures by the European Union depends in particular on the establishment of sufficiently robust dossiers concerning these individuals. I would like to recall that the call for an end to the violence is aimed at both the Burundian authorities and the rebel and opposition groups, which are increasingly arrogating. There are indeed abuses on both sides. That is why this appeal must be very clear to all the belligerents. Mrs Claerhout, following the failure of the consultations with Burundi on 8 December under Article 96, action will be taken on a proposal from the European Commission and the European External Action Service. The discussions on this matter are currently under way. It seems that the European Union will apply the same directives as those we have followed from Belgium for our bilateral cooperation. This means suspending cooperation with the national institution, but maintaining our direct aid to the population. There seems to be a broad consensus on this, but now the technical part needs to be worked out. On the impact of these measures on the dialogue with Burundi, I can tell you that it is precisely the intention of these measures to encourage the authorities to take a constructive approach. The participation of the Burundian authorities in an inclusive dialogue under international mediation will undoubtedly be one of the conditions required by the European Union to lift these measures. As in many other cases, I confirm that our concern is to put an end to the violence in Burundi, to prevent as many refugees from leaving to neighbouring countries and to resume the path of genuine political dialogue. This political dialogue will have to take place, as I have said since the beginning of the examination of this dossier, in the spirit of the Arusha agreements. It is important to focus on the spirit rather than the text. What Burundians decide between themselves in an inclusive dialogue will obviously become the rule. It is up to Burundian officials to open this dialogue. This will become the rule if dialogue is inclusive, if all government and opposition forces participate. That is what we are working on, regardless of the virulent reactions to Belgium or to other countries trying to intervene in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u64	Mr Minister, I just wanted to urge you and your colleague De Croo in the context of development cooperation to ensure that all measures are implemented on the issue of sexual violence. This issue must be taken up in arms, without bad words, through development cooperation policies and actions in refugee camps. I think the cases that have been reported are only a small part of what is happening in the field. I therefore insist that we pay attention to these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u65	Minister, I would like to ask you about the arrest and detention of eight Spanish trade unionists because they have used their right to strike. According to the Spanish trade unions, the charges against these persons are false and the convictions claimed by the Public Prosecutor's Office are disproportionate. In addition to the eight trade unionists who are liable to a prison sentence of eight years and three months each, more than 300 trade unionists are awaiting trial for organizing a strike to protest changes in labour law. Mr Minister, it is worrying that the exercise of such a fundamental right as the right to strike still seems to be in difficulty in a Member State of the European Union. Have you had contact with your Spanish counterpart to discuss this situation which seems to be contrary to European values? Otherwise, do you intend to do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u66	Mr Crusnière, your question refers to the arrest and accusation of eight Spanish trade unionists in September 2010 during a general strike in front of Airbus facilities in Getafe. The strike involved a labour reform initiated by the previous government. In concrete terms, the eight are accused of violence against the police, assault and injury, as well as of preventing access to the premises of workers who did not participate in the strike. Unless the reasons for the arrest and prosecution are different, it is not for me to rule on an ongoing case before the Spanish court. I have therefore not contacted my Spanish colleague on the matter. If you have any other evidence that there may be concerns about how the procedures are proceeding, I am always ready to look more closely at them. For the time being, we have been informed that there is a prosecution in the courts of eight persons accused of violence against the police, assault and injury and of preventing access to the premises of workers who are not taking part in the strike. These are criminal offences that could be held in other European Union countries without any intervention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll come back to you with other elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u68	On 11 December last we were able to discuss in this committee the relationship between the FPS Foreign Affairs for which you are responsible and the Belgian regional authorities in the context of arms exports. You said that your services made available to regional administrations - in various ways - all the information necessary for a good understanding of the human rights situation in problematic countries such as Saudi Arabia. You then thought it was appropriate to make it clear that this exchange of information " obviously did not involve any responsibility on the part of the Federal State for the granting or refusal of an arms export licence". In response to a number of written questions put by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, the Minister of Defence has informed us that Belgium currently has some 20 military attachés, distributed in eleven embassies, structures on which you have full control. Mr Vandeput also stated that this attaché is "the contact person for the Belgian defence industry" and that "the defence attaché can play a coordinating role between the Belgian defence industry and the country for which he is accredited. The role of the Defence Attaché ceases as soon as the negotiations between industry and the country begin." Your colleague has indicated that attachés are or have been in charge of trade in arms with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Yemen, Turkey, Egypt, Sudan, Russia and China. I should not remind you that these countries are, to varying degrees, disrespectful of human rights and sometimes play a disturbing role in some ongoing conflicts in the Middle East. A military attaché was stationed at our embassy in Riyadh from January 2010 to December 2013. Now we know that these soldiers who are at the heart of our embassies play the role of "promoboys" of our weapons manufacturers. Could you clarify to me what memorandum of understanding between Defence and the SPF Foreign Affairs currently governs the reception of defence attachés in Belgian embassies? Could I get a copy of it? Does this protocol provide for safeguard clauses concerning respect for human rights when choosing the posts concerned by the secondment of a military member to embassies? Is there the same level of information exchange between the ambassador concerned and his military attaché as you initiated between the headquarters of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Regions regarding the state of human rights in the country concerned? Minister, I know your commitment to respect for human rights but also to the concept of "economic diplomacy". Can you tell me how our ambassador in Riyadh was able to influence the lobbying work for the Belgian arms industry carried out by the military attaché in order to improve respect for human rights? Do you know whether this military attaché based in Riyadh was able to deal with cases directly or indirectly involving FN Herstal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and Foreign Affairs governing the operation of defence attachés in diplomatic posts. I can hardly provide you with a copy of an agreement that does not exist. On duty, defence attachés are effectively placed under the diplomatic authority of the Head of Post, like any person on the diplomatic list. According to the 1961 Vienna Convention, defence attachés are considered to be members of diplomatic staff with the same immunity as diplomats. But it is the Defence that determines the content of their missions. There is therefore no link of subordination or guardianship. Defence attachés do not report their activities to the Head of Post Ambassador or Foreign Affairs, but only to the Minister of Defence. In practice, there is excellent cooperation and exchange of information between the diplomatic post and the Office of the Defence Attaché, which of course has access to all the data relating to the country of accreditation available to Foreign Affairs. I have no information on any files relating to the FN Herstal company that would have been processed by the defence attaché competent for Saudi Arabia during the period you mentioned. I would point out that the political responsibility for authorizing the export of military or dual-use equipment has been in the hands of the Regions since 2003. It is therefore not at the federal level to decide whether or not to issue a licence to export a particular material to a particular country. You have rightly noted that I am very committed to the respect and advancement of the cause of human rights and to the development of diplomacy that is concerned with the economic interests of our country and all its entities. I do not think these two concerns are contradictory. On the contrary, they can coexist and reinforce each other. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to chair a meeting of the Interministerial Conference on Foreign Policy in the presence of the Ministers-Presidents of the Flemish and Walloon Regions and the Vice-President of the Government of Brussels, as well as representatives of the Communities, including the German-speaking Ministers-Presidents and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. At the request of the Brussels government, we addressed the issue of diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia. I was able to confirm, as I had already done in Parliament, that we are maintaining an open political dialogue with a view to finding solutions to international crises. Saudi Arabia's participation in the search for solutions is essential. I am thinking in particular of the case of Syria and what is being set up in Geneva, but we could talk about other crises, for example in Yemen. We also call for other countries to join in this task. We also maintain this dialogue to advance exchanges on human rights, including on the death penalty, but also on individual cases, which we can discuss during diplomatic contacts with Saudi authorities and others. Beyond this, we are of course at the disposal of the regional authorities to provide them with all the information necessary for the exercise of their own powers. I am thinking in particular of arms export licences, as I recalled yesterday. I have also indicated that we are fully prepared to inform them of the progress of any negotiations with a partner, including Saudi Arabia, on a particular treaty or draft treaty, a fortiori when jurisdiction is shared, so that the text must be ratified by all levels of power. That is what I can confirm to you about our relations with the Ministry of Defence and our diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia, taking into account certain regional powers, such as the export of arms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u70	This is a fact: the SPF Foreign Affairs, through its embassies, hosts military attachés in problematic countries who promote the Belgian armament and arms industry, be it Brussels, Flemish or Walloon. Thus, indirectly, the FPS Foreign Affairs of which you have the tutelage undoubtedly plays a role in the sale and promotion of Belgian weapons in problematic countries. In a way, therefore, you have a responsibility in this matter. In Brussels, at the SPF Affaires étrangères rue des Petits Carmes, I think you are right to have the federated entities, in particular Namur, take into account the human rights situation in the countries to which they wish to export arms. In the same register, it would be good for our ambassadors to play this role in embassies with the military attachés they host. This is a matter of consistency with the policy pursued by the FPS Foreign Affairs and Defence on the one hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u71	I am prepared to assume a lot of responsibilities but the sharing of competences is quite clear in Belgium, so I do not have to oppose an arms license...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u72	I'm not talking about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u73	Yes, because you are asking me to avoid our embassies relaying the position of the Regions with regard to the arms trade with a particular country. If licences are granted to companies, I will not ask the Belgian ambassadors to take any initiative contrary to this approach. So do not confuse the role of our representation abroad with any promotion of arms sales. Out of respect for the distribution of competences in Belgium, we will not ask the ambassadors representing Belgium in all its components to oppose decisions legitimately taken by a particular Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u74	Minister, you will read back in the record both the question I asked you and the first reply I addressed to you. I never said that you could oppose the granting of an arms license. You can't! What I'm telling you is that you have a responsibility that is now demonstrated in the fact that the FPS Foreign Affairs via our embassies is hosting military attachés who, even in this Chamber of your colleague, Minister of Defence, are playing a role in promoting and selling arms in problematic countries. These military attachés, who advise our ambassadors, play a related role in promoting the sale of arms in problematic countries. It's a fact! It's proven! Of course, you are deploying an energy that I recognize you to convince the federated entities not to export arms to the problematic countries. I invite you to deploy the same energy to convince our ambassadors, our military attachés and your colleague Defence Minister not to deploy "promoboys" of the sale of Belgian weapons in problematic countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u75	Minister, last December, an attack claimed by the insurgent LeJ (Lashkar-e-Jhangvi) movement fighting alongside Daesh killed at least 25 people in a crowded market not far from the Afghan border. The attack is clearly intended to discourage Pakistanis from sending their children to fight in Syria alongside Bashar al-Assad. A Pakistani television station in Islamabad has also recently been the target of an attack on Daesh. In addition, the attack on a university in the country on 20 January, claimed by the Taliban in retaliation for a large-scale anti-terrorist offensive by the Pakistani army in the north-western tribal areas of Afghanistan's border, resulted in many deaths. These attacks and attacks, among others, only remind us of the long-standing problems of terrorism in Pakistan. Minister, can you give us more information on the current situation in Pakistan and its evolution in relation to the fight against terrorism? How do you look at this situation? How does the Pakistani government perceive the threat of Daesh and its location on its territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u76	Mr Blanchart, I fully share your feelings about the bloody attack on Bacha Khan University in Charsadda on 20 January. I condemn as strongly as possible such violence against innocent victims. Since June 2014, Pakistan has begun a genuine internal war against various extremist and even terrorist groups. First, this war continues in the territory of northern Waziristan but also in other parts of the north-west. At the same time, actions are being taken against these groups in Punjab province and in the metropolis of Karachi. A National Action Plan, adopted by political consensus in January 2015, is in full implementation. Our analysis is that although conclusions are still premature, this firm approach has led directly to a sharp decrease in the number of terrorist attacks and the number of victims. As a result, attacks such as those of Bacha Khan or the Army Public School in December 2014 further shock us. According to our information, which confirms the perception of the Pakistani government, Daesh has so far not established itself in Pakistan in a sustainable manner. There are certainly some signs of sympathy for Daesh, whether propaganda or not, but no real evidence of a physical presence. To explain this situation, mention must be made of cultural factors but also of rivalries between the many radical groups. It should also be borne in mind that Pakistan's army remains firmly in control of sensitive sites and that its preventive action cannot be underestimated. However, Daesh remains a dangerous factor in a country like Pakistan. We need to be realistic about this. In general, Belgium supports the democratically elected Pakistani government in its efforts to stabilize the country for sustainable development. This development implies a secure environment that allows the economy to grow and promote the country's great natural wealth. This should also restore the confidence of Pakistani investors and foreign investors who wish to establish themselves there. But you are right to react strongly to the latest attacks, to ask us what we are trying to do – including through international structures such as the European Union and the United Nations – and to encourage us to be vigilant in our efforts to accompany the steps taken by the Pakistani government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u77	It is true that recent attacks have shattered the sense of security that began to settle in Pakistan. The United States came out of the woods and asked the Pakistani government to show its seriousness in its ability to delegitimize, disrupt or even dismantle terrorist networks. The European Union should also play its role more visibly with regard to Pakistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u78	Mr President, Minister, Haiti is a country that has been on its way to reconstruction since the earthquake of six years ago, but with more traps than standing up. The current situation in the country is as follows: President Martelly has postponed the election once more. Normally, those elections were scheduled for January 24, 2016. There have also been no local elections in recent years. A candidate for the presidency has decided to boycott the elections. It's just a soup out there, if I may put it that way! Recently, on 7 February, President Martelly's mandate ended. Meanwhile, an interim president would have been appointed. It is a very difficult situation for the Haitians on the ground. My question is this. What is Belgium's position on recent developments in Haiti? What role can Belgium possibly play in diplomatic matters to ensure that the electoral process is more correct? What impact does the situation have on the economic and diplomatic relationship between Belgium and Haiti? What efforts are currently being made to assist in the reconstruction of Haiti?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u79	Mr Minister, on 20 May 2015, the European Parliament adopted in plenary session a series of amendments, including Amendment 155, which makes the European Regulation on conflict minerals mandatory throughout the supply chain. On 23 July, the Belgian parliamentary majority adopted a CD&V resolution defending a much weaker and less courageous position, largely based on the voluntary approach of companies. For the PS, our country must, as part of the adoption of this project within the European Council, require mandatory traceability throughout the supply chain and the resumption of the scope and definitions of these minerals, as laid down in the OECD guide on due diligence for responsible supply of minerals from conflict and high-risk areas. Today, negotiations have begun between the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council on this issue, on a fundamental divergence of views between Parliament which wants a mandatory traceability mechanism and the Council which wants a voluntary system, to the great dam of MEP Marie Arena who leads the negotiations for the European Parliament. However, if the European Council finally agreed to the position adopted by the European Parliament, our continent could become a pioneer in economic ethics. It is now up to us, as Belgium, to live up to this vital and historic goal. Minister, what position will our country take in the trialogue on this issue? By whom will it be defended? I was quite surprised that the question came back to you and that it did not stay with the Prime Minister. Who is involved in this case? Does our country defend within the European Council the position adopted by the European Parliament? Do you intend to require a mandatory due diligence system from the beginning of the supply chain to the end of the supply chain? Do you intend to require this obligation not to be limited to European companies but to all companies that place these minerals or products containing these minerals in Europe beyond the importers? Do you intend to argue that this regulation should include the definition of "conflict zone" in line with that used by the OECD in order to ensure global coherence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u80	Mrs Grovonius, thank you for your interest in the proposal for a regulation on supply chains for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, ores and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas. First of all, let me point out that, while the dossier will probably follow the Council's trade chain, it is an adviser to the Economic Analysis and International Economy Directorate-General of the SPF Economy who participates in the meetings of the Trade Affairs Group. Here are the answers I can give to your inquiry. The proposal for a European regulation aims to prevent companies from contributing to the financing of armed groups through their purchases of minerals from conflict or high-risk areas. Following its submission by the European Commission in March 2014, the text of the proposal for a European regulation was debated in the European Parliament and was the subject of Parliament resolutions. Both institutions considered that the most effective way to combat the financing of armed groups through trade in minerals and gold was to focus on smelters and refineries, upstream of the production chain (approximately 500 companies worldwide), as they represent the last point where the origin of minerals can be effectively traced. The more the production chain advances, the more the number of companies increases to 800,000 European companies, the more difficult it becomes to ensure a realistic cost-benefit ratio. The system to be put in place must be functional for both SMEs and their administrations. MEPs therefore call for a duty of due diligence for upstream companies. This is also the new position adopted by the European Commission to start the trilateral negotiations, the trilogues, with the European Parliament and the Council since its beginning on Monday, 1 February. The position adopted by Coreper on 18 December, as the basis for negotiations in the Dutch Presidency, provides that importers responsible for tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas meet a number of requirements, particularly in terms of due diligence. Belgium will follow the process closely and decide on the final text at the appropriate time. We do not participate directly in the trialogue. It is the Presidency, as far as the Council is concerned, that participates. In its final position, it will be guided by the strategic objective of this regulation, namely to effectively cut off the financing of violence through the sale of minerals. Despite a coordination meeting held on 21 January with the representatives of the federal and federated authorities concerned, however, it was not possible to define a consolidated position for the Belgian contribution to the continuation of the work, since a Region had opposed the proposed draft conclusion. We will see if we can change this situation. I am also afraid that if we did not reach an agreement, we might end up not even being able to vote at European meetings. I hope we reach an agreement. There is still one Region to convince to join a common position with the various Belgian entities. It is true that the definition of the conflict zone in the European Commission's proposal is not strictly identical to the OECD definition. Compared to the latter, the European Commission is more inspired by international humanitarian law and the language used in the United Nations. It uses more legal terminology. That said, Belgium is of the view that the fact that the European Commission's terminology differs in part from the descriptions applicable within the OECD will not lead to contrary interpretations in terms of obligations in the heads of the companies concerned. I hope that we will find common ground in the coordination that we are leading, so that Belgium can speak with one voice in the forthcoming debates on a proposal that will emerge from the meetings that are currently taking place in the trialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope you will find a way to reach a consensus between the federal and the regions. This consensus will have to be about an important commitment to having a duty of due diligence throughout the supply chain, even if I understand that this is not necessarily the way you want to follow. I hope that you can also encourage the resumption of the OECD definition. I believe that in the context of this specific issue of human rights and corporate accountability, the OECD definition is probably more appropriate to define these areas of high-risk conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic340x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, this brings us to the end of our sitting. We agreed to meet until 18:00. Our committee has a new problem, Minister: there are only eight questions for next week. Over the course of the week, there may be a few more.
