ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as you know, for the PS group, the Military Hospital is a crucial institution in our National Defence but also in the civilian care sector of our country by providing essential services that civilian hospitals would find difficult to handle, such as the service of the burns or in situations of disasters or attacks, as we have unfortunately known in the recent past. This hospital could have played an extremely important role, for example, in the Ebola crisis. For my group, its questioning, as well as the announced disappearance of the Medical Component, are choices that seem incomprehensible when the army is more focused on operations abroad and therefore medical risks could increase. Even if you try to reassure us, on page 109 of your strategic vision, that "it is preferable to maintain a largely centralized and mainly military conditioning structure (...) both the equipment and the procedures differ from the civilian health care sector", you seem to contradict yourself a few lines further by saying that "A thorough assessment gives preference to a new assignment of the Military Hospital, through increased rationalization and interdepartmental and civil-military collaboration". You even promise the results of an independent audit by the end of 2016, which I look forward to reading! I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Following a question from my colleague Senesael at the Health Committee on 24 February 2016, Minister De Block replied that "Knowledge, abilities and experiences (of the Royal Military Hospital), which often have a specific and exclusive character, since they do not know how to be part of civil medicine, are also useful and important in the provision of services and care to our citizens. This situation is therefore beneficial for both military medicine and civil medicine. Separation from this military medical activity would have irrefutable repercussions that would result in the loss of expertise, knowledge and experience." Despite your colleague's assertion, your strategic vision states on page 122: "The risk studies and analyses under way with the Public Health FPS on these infrastructure capacities must be completed in the short term". So what is the government's position on the future of the Royal Military Hospital? What is the status of inter-cabinet consultations on this point? Can you give us a more precise date for the closure of these analyses? What assessment do you make of the agreement that has existed since 2006 with the Brussels public hospital network IRIS? Is the future of this agreement threatened, particularly by the investments of CHU Brugmann in the Royal Military Hospital to operate a polyclinic (90 revalidation beds and various related services)? Do you intend to move certain missions from the Royal Military Hospital to civilian hospitals outside the Neder-over-Heembeek site or even outside the Brussels Capital Region? In your vision, you even seem to have considered the continuation since on page 124, you are already making a call from the foot to the international organisations present in Brussels, as well as to the Region, for the financing of the future hospital. So where are your contacts with the headquarters of NATO, the European Union and the Brussels Region? What new military and/or civilian missions could the Royal Military Hospital play in the future? What will be the consequences of the disappearance of the Medical Component on the future of this institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u2	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I wonder about the purpose of your questions. Because if you're really interested and concerned with the medical department, you have to stop lying. It's never been said it's going to disappear. Never! The Government Agreement provides that the future and the need to maintain the Military Hospital will be reviewed. In addition, the strategic vision document of 29 June last states – and here is the truth, this is what we want to do –: "in the perspective of a medical capability centered on an operational deployment," and the medical service of the future will focus on operational deployment –, "it is preferable to maintain a largely centralized and mainly military condition structure. This is the medical department, Mrs. Fernandez Fernandez. It is within this framework that both the audit to which you refer and the cross-sectoral and interdepartmental technical working group are included. It will be up to them to draw the contours of operational medical support related to the key tasks of Defence, including those related to internal security, and then to determine to what extent the capacity and expertise of the Military Hospital can be maintained and optimized, inter alia through strengthening existing partnerships or launching new initiatives. The federal public services concerned will of course be represented on the working group. You will understand that this process can take some time and that at this stage it would be premature to move too quickly to the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u3	Minister, you must calm your nerves! The role of Parliament is still to control the work of the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u5	I didn't lie, I asked questions, which you didn't answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u7	I understand that my questions are annoying you, like those of the opposition members, especially since I think there are calendars and objectives hidden in your strategic plan and in your policy! Mr Minister, this may upset you as many times as you like, but that will not prevent me and my colleagues from asking you any questions that we feel are necessary. I'm sorry for your tension, this looks like a lot of pissing you off. The purpose of the questions is to have answers. We must not do anything with the institutions!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u9	Partly. I never said you didn't give answers! But in any case, you don't give them all! To respect parliamentary work, we should learn serenity! Think about doing yoga! You have to calm down when you're asked questions, even though I can understand that they upset you because they may force you to give a hidden agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I am going to ask you a few questions in complete serenity. Since the beginning of 2015, our military have been supporting the police in maintaining law and order and securing our public spaces. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Interior and Defence has governed this collaboration since 13 March 2015. In Defence support missions, are the military on a permanent basis, on patrol or on a static mission, alongside the police? What exactly is the scope of the military's support to the police, considering that administrative and judicial police missions remain the prerogative of the police services? I would also like you to clarify how military patrols communicate with the police and relief services when they identify offences for which intervention by these services is required. Is the ASTRID network used by the military in order to ensure a rapid and optimal response on the ground for all actors such as emergency services, relief services and, of course, the police? If so, have they been trained in the use of the communication network? In another commission, we heard that not all police officers may have received sufficient training or training in the use of ASTRID. If not, what channels of communication do the military communicate with these police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u11	Madam President, Mr Pivin, the military is supporting the police as part of the measures of the national counter-terrorism machinery. As directed by the Crisis Centre, these missions are ordered by the police officer and are based on the operational situation. Regardless of the type of mission, the military remains in contact with the police officer who is in charge of operations. All radio communication passes through the ASTRID network. In addition, military liaison officers are deployed to police areas to ensure mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u12	Maybe I was distracted. Your answers to three of the four questions are complete. I wanted to know what the scope of the support tasks was. Can you clarify this? Can they take initiatives, or must they obey, in quotation marks, the orders or suggestions of the police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u13	Mr Pivin, I have already answered this question several times in committee and in plenary. I can confirm that their rules of engagement are very clear. However, in order to preserve their safety, we do not communicate them. The military is under the command of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u14	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u15	Madam President, Minister, an exchange of views took place in this committee on 26 February 2015 on the preliminary round question sent by the Belgian Defence Department to foreign state agencies in the context of the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft. Colonel Harold Van Pee, in charge of the file on the replacement of the F-16, gave an overview of the procedure at this meeting. You yourself, Minister, answered the questions of myself and my fellow Members and said, among other things, the following passages: "The current government has instructed the Minister to draw up a strategic plan to define the ambitions and capacities for the future. Before this plan is approved and proposed, no decision will be taken by the government on this dossier. A second quote: "In the actual programme phase, Belgian Defence will have to disclose its level of ambition. At the end of the programme phase, an assessment will be made of the five manufacturers and the Council of Ministers will deter one or more manufacturers for the acquisition phase. Third quote: "The Minister is ready to discuss the results of the programme phase with Parliament at the time of the transition from the programme to the procurement phase, probably by the end of 2016. All costs associated with such an investment will then be covered. So far, the three quotes. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, in the meantime, you have had a strategic vision approved by the government. Is this document sufficient to move on to next steps in this file? The level of ambition was determined, but there is no plan to propose concrete implementation or to set the investment budgets. Secondly, if the strategic vision is a sufficient basis for taking further steps in this dossier, I assume that Belgium is currently in the programme phase. By the end of 2016, the programme-to-the-procurement phase would be changed. What is the current state of affairs and is the timing still realistic? Thirdly, when will the programme phase come to an end? When will you discuss the programme phase with the committee? Fourthly, at the end of the programme phase "C' at the end of 2016 "C', all costs related to such investments will be covered. I wanted to ask you when the Court of Auditors will be involved, but since there is a hearing with the Court of Auditors this afternoon, I can ask the question there. Fifthly, how many manufacturers will be selected for the acquisition phase? Based on what criteria is it decided which manufacturers these are? Who decides which manufacturers are selected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u16	Madam President, Mr Top, your assumptions are wrong, but I will come straight back to that. The strategic vision indeed provides the framework allowing the next step to be taken in the F-16 replacement programme. The programme phase will be launched as soon as possible, but only when the Council of Ministers decides to do so. I do believe that this could happen quite quickly. So we are not in the programme phase. The dossier submitted to the Council of Ministers for the start-up of the programme phase will include the selection criteria on the basis of which the request for government proposal can be sent out. Once again, Mr Top, we are not going to contact manufacturers, but we are going to contact governments. As required by the administrative process in this respect, the Army Procurement Commission will be informed before the Council of Ministers. However, the administrative process which provides for this type of purchase does not provide for the automatic intervention of the Court of Auditors. It is up to Parliament or the Court of Auditors itself, according to its Rules of Procedure, to decide on the possibility of such an intervention. The intention remains to submit a final choice for the replacement of the F-16 to the Council of Ministers by mid-2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u17	Minister, you say that governments will be contacted. I refer to the quote you just made, where you said that an assessment will be made of the five manufacturers. Rather, it will be the five written governments. If my assumptions are wrong, I'd like to point out your timing. As you have already replied to previous questions, we must move from the programme phase to the tendering phase by the end of 2016. That was also clear from one of the quotes I read out. We still have three months left in 2016. So that moment is very close. You know my position on the replacement of the F-16s, but I would like to point out that the timing of starting the tendering phase by the end of 2016 is unlikely to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u18	Mr Top, I would like to know from you when I would have made the statement on that timing. Either that or I missed it. You also say: 'from the programme phase to the tendering phase'. The tendering phase is not described in this procurement procedure. If those are my words effectively, then those words back then were not quite correct. If you want to build on any delay, I can only tell you that we, congruent with everything that has been said about it, were in the previous phase. I won't say the name of it, because I'll say it wrong again. We must proceed, if the government decides, to a programme phase, in which we will describe what we want and in which we will ask specific questions. Then there will be a down-selection, then the real acquisition phase, in which we will negotiate with the survivors who will be determined at that time. That's the process. I have always said that I want to take the next step by the end of this year. We are now heading towards the end of the year. If we are in the initial phase and we are starting the programme phase, I will soon have a discussion with the Council of Ministers to get into the programme phase. That is the exact stage we are in today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u19	Minister, we will not now discuss quotes. I will give you those quotes and the sources from which they come, but I am concerned about the procedure. When will anyone be contacted and who will decide? The answer to my next question may not be relevant at the moment, because you yourself indicated that you are still in phase. That question was, in fact, "even though you are not yet in the programme phase," how many manufacturers will be selected for the acquisition phase. You haven't got that far yet, because you still have to take the first step. You still need to contact the five governments again for their input. What is important, and that is my final question, is on the basis of which criteria you will decide after the programme phase how many manufacturers/governments you will prevent from entering the next stage. What criteria will you use? Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u20	It seems obvious to me that these criteria will be described in the RFGP, the Request for Government Proposal. On the basis of the results, we will then examine how many potential candidates we will continue with. The government will decide this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u21	Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u22	Madam Chair, Minister, your strategic vision states, on page 121, that "the current academic training at the Royal Military School (RMC) will be highly streamlined. The number of specializations in social and military sciences (SSMW) and polytechnics will decrease sharply. The duration of the master's degree in social and military sciences will be reduced by one year". It would seem, however, that, during the discussions of the draft royal decree establishing the training programme for the ERM for the academic year 2016-2017, little information was given on its implications for the SSMW faculty. In addition, it seems that the draft report to the king limits the scope of the decree in draft to the replacement of the program of the first polytechnic bachelor and SSMW training planned for the academic year 2016-2017, while in reality the decree initiates the execution of your vision. If the reduction of the programme in polytechnics will be gradual, with in particular the abolition of the ballistic specialty in 5th year in SSMW, the draft decree defines the first of the four years of study of a new program (master in one year instead of two), which would be illegal. The applicable law provides for five years. The draft law amending the Act of 18 March 1838 of the Royal Military School submitted to the bargaining committee provides, without retroactive effect, that training in the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences includes "at least" four years of study. One consequence of this illegality is that any failure during this training in 2016-17 would be legally questionable before the Council of State. On the other hand, it would appear that the unions did not receive the report of the ERM Development and Training Board of June 15, 2016. They did not know that the new programs did not match the 2016-17 programs approved by the Faculty of Polytechnics and Social and Military Sciences Council on May 6, 2015. The next meeting of faculty councils will be faced with a fait accompli: it only takes place on September 21, 2016, the agenda is not even known yet. The draft royal decree provides for retroactivity until August 16, 2016, the date of the incorporation of first-year students, and this without a solid legal basis. When the first-year students were incorporated on 16 August 2016, they were apparently forced to sign a declaration stating that, although they were recruited to complete five years of studies leading to an accredited master's degree, they agreed to do only four years of which they were unaware that they were not accredited. This statement can only be of a purely informative nature: it does not cover the illegality committed by the current Minister of Defence - you will still get angry! Minister, as a follow-up to my previous questions on this subject, how do you intend to do so to remove the legal uncertainty in force today despite my previous warnings? How do you intend to restore the quality of the SSMW faculty training at the Royal Military School and to provide students in this faculty with an adequate academic level, both for the continuation of their careers and for reintegration into civilian life? This is in order to preserve the widely recognized status of the Royal Military School, to which the Socialist Group is particularly attached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u23	Fernandez Fernandez, there is no legal uncertainty. It would be better to avoid trying to convince everyone that there is uncertainty. But I'll answer your questions. The basic training programme of the faculties of the social and military sciences and polytechnics shall be established on an annual basis, irrespective of the duration of the training concerned. This programme takes over, for an academic year, the year of training considered by promotion. It is fixed by royal decree. In concrete terms, this means that for the academic year 2016-2017, the royal decree establishes the first year programme for the 156th promotion in the social and military sciences, that of the second year for the 155th promotion, etc. This approach has been in place since 2002. I don't remember who was Minister of Defence at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u24	If it was Mr. From Crem, he's probably on a trip!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u25	That is to say, it is not a matter of haste or legal acrobatics. The content of these programmes is subject to an annual recurring process of validation through the passage through the Faculty Councils and Academic Councils and through the assent of the Council for Development and Education, as set out in the Organic Law of the Royal Military School, Article 1, § 6. In concrete terms, the change to the programme is not directly linked to the reduction of the training cycle and could even be achieved without this reduction. In the report to the King on the draft royal decree, the emphasis is on learning English during the first cycle of training (bachelor). The aim is to be able to deliver graduate training (master's) in whole or in part in English. This justification is nothing more than a transposition of the elements contained in the report of the Council for Development of 15 June 2016. There is no formal or legal obligation to provide this report to trade union organisations which have also given unanimous agreement. One thing that has been unanimously validated by the unions is being discussed! As I have already specified, this program still includes courses for the fifth year of study for promotion having completed its fourth year of study in the previous academic year, that is, 2015-2016. In addition, a draft bill amending various provisions relating to education at the Royal Military School was introduced to union negotiations on September 9. This project aims, among other things, to reduce the training provided to the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences of the Royal Military School to four years, while maintaining the accreditation of this training. This is therefore not an unaccredited training. Special attention was paid to the proposed transitional provisions in order to minimize the impact on training candidates in the Royal Military Academy. In this way, officer candidates who have started their training before the 2016-17 academic year and who do not incur an incident during their training, will not be affected by the new training period. The trade union organisations gave unanimous agreement on this preliminary draft. The King decided on the date of entry into force of the provisions of this draft law. There is no retroactive effect at this stage. I repeat that there is no legal uncertainty! A communication was indeed sent to all students incorporated into the Royal Military School for 2016-17 to inform them of the above. It was attached to the letters of invitation to incorporation. It is a communication for the purpose of getting to know the interested parties and not a declaration. As a result, they signed for getting acquainted and not for declaring. The signed document is therefore purely informative and, as such, cannot be reasonably used to invoke any illegality. In conclusion, Madam Chair, I would ask for attention to be paid to considering only the facts. I confirm that, to date, I have not proposed anything, whether through a royal decree or a law, which has not been confirmed by the trade unions. If the unions are not able to take on the responsibilities of the defence workers, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u26	Madam President, in response to the minister's question in 2002, the Minister of Defence was one of the best in this country. Let it be done! I assure you, I am an activist of the FGTB, indeed, but I am not the FGTB and if I come here, it is to ask you political questions. The union does its job and I do mine with my colleagues. You say that this has been voted unanimously, but you also state that you do not have an obligation to submit the requested documents. I hope they knew what they were voting for just like I hope they know why they applaud you and I'll go ask them. I will, don't be afraid! They're already at yoga! You argue that there is no legal uncertainty! I'll believe you. If I understand correctly, the royal decree was taken ex post and, therefore, my question is: why did you have the students sign a document if it was only information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u27	It's barely half an hour since I was asked in this room to give more information to the people involved in the decisions. In this case, they were presented with the communication and asked to sign for their knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u28	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u29	I have just been asked here to communicate more when there are changes of rules or other within the Defence and to ensure that those involved are aware of what is happening. Now I see that when you communicate and ask to sign for your knowledge, it's not right either. I don't understand you anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u30	Minister, you really have to think about yoga! I didn't condemn the fact that you gave information. At no time did I question the fact that you were giving information, unless I lost my mind. Maybe it is. I wonder whether people are asked to sign when giving information. And I also wonder if what has been done is legal and will not be subject to legal challenge tomorrow if there is a failure. Excuse me, but I don't think my question is stupid. I have the feeling that there is legal uncertainty, but we still get people to sign a document that I think is for commitment. I don't think my question, or my thinking, is stupid. For the rest and to finish on a positive touch even though, be assured, I still have a question that may upset you, I would like to welcome the training in English. Indeed, in a modern defence which is destined to have international contacts, training in English is far from useless, even though I am also concerned about the accreditation of this master's degree, which goes from five to four years in the Erasmus process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u31	Minister, I am going to put, like Lindt candy, a little softness in this world of bullies! Last May, I asked you about the exceptional budget promised for security by the government and its impact on your department. You then provided me with a series of figures. It would seem, however, that they do not coincide entirely with those appearing in the French-language press. In your reply, you told me that an urgent dossier of priority investments had been approved for EUR 12.8 million. The press article talks about €4.3 million for monitoring and listening equipment. Minister, could you clarify the figures that are coming to us and take stock, for 2015 and 2016, of these exceptional budgetary means given to your department in terms of security and the exact allocation of this part – material and human resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u32	Mr Pirlot, I regret that you have more faith in the Evening!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u33	I don't believe the newspapers until I get better, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u34	In 2015, Defence did not make use of the interdepartmental security provision for equipment, but the department was compensated for the cost of the military on the streets for an amount of 17 million. For 2016, when I answered your question last May, I said that Defence had been able to make use of the interdepartmental provision for urgent investments in priority equipment and services worth EUR 12.8 million. To be more precise, it is indeed – Le Soir is right – 4.3 million in materials and services in the field of SGRS and 8.5 million in favour of homeland operations. In addition, 92 staff members are recruited from the Department of Staff Intelligence and Security over three years for a value of €3.5 million. Defence continues to provide support to the federal police for surveillance missions. In my reply in May, we had been compensated for the first quarter of the year. In the meantime, two quarters have elapsed. The compensation amounts to EUR 33.6 million. In cooperation with Justice and the Federal Police, the Defence has launched a public procurement procedure for the purchase of a system for the collection of information through open sources and social media for an amount of EUR 22.1 million, spread over three years. In July, the government decided to make an additional effort in the field of defence against attacks using chemical, bacteriological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) agents. To this end, it allocated €550,000 to the Defence in addition to the interdepartmental provision. There is therefore a misunderstanding, especially since we are talking about 12.8 million for the total and 4.3 million for the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u35	Minister, thank you for your precise answer. As I indicated, I did not question your figures, but simply wanted to get clarification and take advantage of this distortion with the newspapers to receive a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u36	Minister, as you understand, I have read your strategic vision with great interest. Chapter after chapter, I wonder. This is the case in the field of industrial policy and research and development, as set out in your principles 7 and 8. We are aware of the enormous stakes at stake for our industrial, scientific and, more broadly, economic fabric in Belgium, as illustrated by the debates surrounding the issue of the societal returns of the draft law on public procurement. But curiously, Principle 8 does not mention the Regions. To this end, "the SPF Economy, in cooperation with the Defence, will set the implementing measures for maximum economic return for military purchases". It seems to me impossible for the drafting of the document setting out national interests (DIRS) to be entrusted exclusively to the SPF Economy and Defence, without taking into account the priorities of the Regions and Communities in the field of defence-related research and development. Similarly, I was surprised to see that, in principle 7, you made very little reference to the research centres of the federated entities. Wallonia, for example, has several poles of competitiveness, including Skywin. They bring together universities, research centres and companies that can position themselves as privileged partners in this strategy. Since this vision includes many investment and research projects and in view of your future military programming law, I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What will be the next steps in the practical implementation of Principles 7 and 8 of your strategic vision, in particular in the drafting of your military programming law and in the transposition of Article 346 TFEU? Will the federated entities be fully involved in this work when, it seems, they have not been in any way involved in the drafting of your strategic vision? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u37	My colleague, it is stipulated in the government agreement that the military programming law must allow companies to prepare for the future major military programme. That is what I repeat in principle 7 of my strategic vision. The preliminary draft law on programming will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks, as agreed at the Council of Ministers on 29 June. The priority is to acquire defence equipment. We need it. The best quality is preferable, but it is clear that these purchases offer opportunities for the Belgian economy. It is up to the government to stimulate this process. Nevertheless, as stated clearly in Principle 8, Belgium is part of the European Union, and therefore we must respect the rules of the game. Using Article 346 of the Treaty of the European Union is a possibility that will be considered under the conditions allowed by the European Union, as other possibilities offered by public procurement legislation. The strategic vision is primarily a vision for the future of Defence. Defence is a federal matter. As stated in my strategic vision, there is no doubt that the federated entities will have a say in the drafting of the DIRS. The Minister of Economy intends to act in this way, it is within his competence. Nevertheless, I can confirm, and your friends can confirm, that my firm has already linked contacts with the Regions on this subject. Within the limits of European principles, the strategic vision offers economic opportunities. There is close cooperation between my services and those of the Minister of Economy, in order to get the maximum benefit for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u38	Defence is a federal jurisdiction. I like it when you press the word "federal." It's an important investment. I've met with companies that tell me that we should not ration the bill in terms of economic benefits. Because there are not only military aspects, but also everything that affects derivatives to civil aviation, etc. This is important for Flanders and Wallonia as part of this market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u39	Madam President, I would like to make a comment or comment on the merging of the questions. After all, I do not know whether they are on the same subject. I'll ask my question. Afterwards, the Minister can decide whether the aggregated questions should be re-divided in the answers. Minister, the next NATO summit of Heads of State and Government will be held in Brussels in 2017. This was announced by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in July 2016. The intention is to combine the NATO summit with the festive opening of the new headquarters of the military treaty organisation in the Belgian capital. The exact date for the summit has not yet been announced. The summit usually meets only biennially. However, it is a tradition that NATO leaders gather shortly after the arrival of a new American president. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. First of all, will NATO headquarters be ready in time? What is the actual timing? Secondly, is the festive opening of NATO funds paid for? Should Belgium pay an additional share? Thirdly, is there already a formal agreement by all Member States to hold or convene an additional summit in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u40	Madam President, my question has absolutely nothing to do with Mr Top's question. She could possibly have been attached to Mrs Jadin's. I'm going to ask her and I still hope to get an answer. Mr Minister, it would seem that you have mentioned the possibility for Belgium to make a greater contribution to UN operations by offering niche capabilities. This is good news for us, because it is true that under this government, the Belgian UN commitment will rarely have been so low, especially following Lebanon's withdrawal, which we denounced at the time, remember. On the sidelines of a peace-keeping conference in London, in which you were participating, you would have proposed to deploy for six months during 2018, if I am not mistaken, a C-130 transport aircraft to the MINUSMA mission for the stabilization of Mali (a task which, if my information is correct, is currently carried out by Portugal). It would appear that you have also considered other avenues in order to provide concrete contributions "in niches" to United Nations operations. This willingness to offer Belgium's assistance to a number of United Nations missions, however surprising it may be from this Government, seems to me wise, particularly when we know that Belgium's campaign to obtain a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council began last July. Minister, can you confirm to me the information that Belgium will contribute for six months during 2018 to the mission for the stabilisation of Mali? Have you ever made or received any other proposals or requests for support to UN missions? If so, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u41	The answers to the questions have been prepared separately and I will give them separately. Mr Top, the announcement of an additional NATO summit in Brussels in 2017 was already made in July 2016 at the NATO summit in Warsaw. The organisation of this summit and the inauguration of the new headquarters are the responsibility of the Foreign Minister, who will undoubtedly be pleased to answer your questions on this matter. As far as my powers are concerned, I can inform you that the new NATO headquarters will be ready in time for the organisation of the NATO summit in 2017. As far as the works under the responsibility of Belgium are concerned, the construction works will be ready before the end of this year. In addition, work is being carried out under the management of NATO itself, for example the Active Network Infrastructure project, for which we have no responsibility. Nor does NATO's own works form part of our mission there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have actually received sufficient reply from you. The only question I have left concerns the means to pay for the festive opening. Apparently, I have to ask those questions to your colleague from the Foreign Office. I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u43	Mr Crusnière, Defence is currently participating in UN missions in Lebanon, with an officer, in the DRC, with two officers, in Israel, with two officers, and in Mali with eight soldiers – but we have to know that we have 200 people in Mali today. Belgium's defence mainly occupies positions in command structures, which implies that no material means (vehicles or equipment) are engaged at the moment. Within MINUSMA in Mali, Defence is engaged at ASIFU (All Sources Information Fusion Unit). The Defence Staff carefully considers any opportunity to strengthen its support to United Nations-led peacekeeping operations with the capabilities that the United Nations needs and with added value for the United Nations. So we have to find a match between what we are asked for and what we can offer. The tracks currently under consideration are in the area of intelligence and tactical transport. Any information about a future contribution to either mission is premature. The decision-making process for future operations is under way and will be presented to the Council of Ministers in November and to Parliament after a decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm glad to hear that you're opening the door to greater participation. I believe that this must be an added value for the United Nations, and the quality of our army does allow it. In addition, these experiences are important to our military and to our army. For all these participations in United Nations missions, we are in a win-win setting. We need to be available for this type of mission, especially since we are candidates for a non-permanent member position in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u45	Madam President, Minister, on 29 June last I asked you again about the future of parastatals and the practical arrangements for your "great reform". You then replied – I quote –: "The reform plan was presented on 31 May in the Defence Committee. I answered questions about the future of parastatals. In the meantime, the staff and boards of the institutions concerned have been informed of the plan. All parastatal collaborators under my supervision will find a place in the new structures, which has been communicated to them. By 2030, the military will have disappeared from these structures by voluntary departure, reclassification or retirement." It would appear, however, that your answer is contradicted by the facts. To make things clear: I don't accuse you of anything, I just want to understand. Contrary to what you said, it would appear that OCACC members are obliged, without prior consultation with staff, to make their deployment before the end of 2018 and not 2030 as for other parastatals. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm that OCASC members must be deployed before the end of 2018 and not 2030? If so, why are members made available to the CSACO treated differently from those in the other parastatals? What does this "precipitation" mean? Is this advance transfer applied to other parastatals of which you have guardianship?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u46	Pirlot, a total of 18 military personnel work in the Central Office for Social and Cultural Action of Defence (OCASC). Eight of them will have reached retirement age at the end of 2018. The others will, at that time, have been in that organization for at least five years and will therefore be eligible to be assigned to another function, in accordance with the deployment policy in force within Defence. On the basis of this data, combined with the strategic vision for Defence and on the proposal of the Defence Staff, it was proposed not to replace retired members until the end of 2018. In addition, it was decided to reassign members who had worked for at least five years at the OCASC at the end of 2018 to the Defence. These measures were presented to the OCASC Management Committee, where the social partners sit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u47	So there was an agreement within it? [[Sentiment]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u48	Madam President, Minister, Defence uses the so-called hardships for its staff, a system to determine the difficulty of foreign shipments and, on that basis, to provide compensation. Staff of the FPS Foreign Affairs also use this system to provide certain compensations for challenges abroad. Normally, or in the past, both the hardships of the Defense Department and those of the State Department were the same. It seems, however, that this has changed recently. As a result, military personnel face a number of problems. It also seems to cause problems for, among other things, children subject to school. That is why I have a few questions for you. Why has the link of hardships between the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs been abandoned? Will it be resumed if necessary? What agreements are made on hardships with military attachés stationed in diplomatic posts? What are the differences with the military being sent on a foreign mission? If a hardship continues to rise, will compensation be paid with retroactive effect? Why is that? Why is that? I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Bellens, the system of hardships used within the Defense Department is not entirely consistent with its use by the Foreign Office, because the career of a military officer cannot be compared to the career of a diplomat. The diplomatic staff of the Federal State Department of Foreign Affairs is employed for a large part of the career in diplomatic posts abroad, whereas for a military position or diplomatic post abroad is rather an exception. For the military employed in a diplomatic post abroad, the grades of hardship applicable within the FPS Foreign Affairs are taken over in full, with the corresponding statutory movements limited to the movement between the country of the diplomatic post and Belgium. These are re-established in the specific Defence Directives concerning such posts and, in the event of an amendment, are also adapted within Defence. Military personnel in diplomatic posts benefit from the reimbursement system re-established in the aforementioned specific Defence Guidelines. For military personnel carrying out a temporary mission abroad, for a period of less than five months, or for permanent military staff abroad, for a period of more than five months, another reimbursement system is applicable, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 15 January 1962 establishing the compensation system applicable to military personnel performing missions abroad and the Ministerial Decree of 3 February 1975 implementing the Royal Decree of 15 January 1962. A new degree of hardship will enter into force for the Defence Department on the same date as for the Foreign Office, with retroactive effect if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u50	Madam President, Minister, the Air and Space section of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History, better known as the "Air Museum", brings together a very beautiful collection of aviation pieces made up since the 1970s. This institution is now considered one of the most beautiful museums dedicated to aviation. This museum pole has developed for many years with the support of volunteers from the association "Les Amis du Musée de l'Air et de l'Espace". Unfortunately, they have experienced some difficulties, and the relationship with the Museum's trusteeship has not always been optimal, particularly in terms of the management and ownership of collections. However, the situation seems to have improved with the appointment of a new director, as well as with the drafting of a framework agreement between the Army Museum, the Air and Space section, and volunteers. The latter determines precisely to whom the pieces belong, which are the subject of donations, or what happens in case of exchange between museums. It seems that this agreement has made it possible to clarify the situation. However, uncertainties remain as to where the exhibits are currently not visible, but also as to the possible dispersal of the collections, in particular towards Coxide. However, according to the Director of the Air and Space Section, there is a consensus on centralisation in Brussels. So, Minister, could you please tell us more about your plans and those of the management of the Army Museum regarding the geographical distribution of the Air Museum's rooms? Is a transfer of certain documents present in Brussels to Coxide relevant? Can you give us more details about this? What project is it developed in Coxide? What about the currently unexposed exhibits? Will they eventually be in Brussels, or elsewhere in Belgium? Finally, what about the centralisation of the coins in Brussels? Is that a consensus?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, I come back to a theme that is not in the priorities of your strategic vision but that remains a priority for me and my group. It's about memory work. I was very interested to learn, in an article in the newspaper L'Echo of 20 September, that the Brussels future of the Air and Space section of the Royal Army Museum finally seemed to be clarified, thanks to the desire of passionate volunteers. If I still have many fears in your parastatal reform about the overall future of the Royal Army Museum, whose aircraft collection is one of the richest in the world, I would like to ask you, minister, the following questions. In addition to the recently signed framework agreement, what decisions or initiatives do you intend to take to support, in particular financially, the Brussels Air Museum? Are plans to dismantle this collection permanently buried?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u52	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, again, you are presenting, as a truth, a statement which is, in fact, your appreciation. If you said, "I think memory work isn't in your priorities," I wouldn't see any problem. But when you say "this is not your priority," I have a problem. I hope you understand and I would like you to ask your questions in another way. The Council of Ministers of 20 July 2016 authorized the creation of a new Category B public interest body, under the supervision of the Minister of Defence. This body will be responsible for transmitting the memory, conservation and exhibition of collections related to the history of armed conflicts on Belgian territory or the armed conflicts in which the Belgians participated. This establishment is a kind of fusion between the Royal Museum of Army and Military History, the Breendonk Fort National Memorial and some elements of the Institute of Veterans-National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans Affairs and War Victims. All heritage and collections belonging to the organizations that will be integrated into the organization will remain the property of the federal government. There was never a question of dismantling. I must have said it at least ten times here in the House! From an organisational point of view, in terms of museology, it is planned to work with three types of sites: clean sites to be operated by the organisation; concession sites owned by the federal state but operated by a third party; associated sites owned and operated by third parties, but which, through networking, will have a more coordinated and complementary development. In order to provide the public with better access to collection pieces while remaining the property of the federal government, the collections of the new organization can be displayed in all three types of sites while taking into account the museum policy determined by the organization. The aim is to present a central site where global history is told and exhibited, namely the site of the Cinquantenaire whose international reputation we intend to restore. In addition, complementary sites will deepen certain elements of global history that are geographically rooted in local history. This is the first time in the last twenty years that a real project has emerged for the Institut du Cinquantenaire. The consolidation of the various institutions will eventually lead to operating savings, which will be reinvested in the core business, namely the museum and the transmission of memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u53	Minister, thank you. I know that you have already mentioned it in relation to questions I have asked on the same subject, and I am glad that you confirm it once again: the collections will remain the property of the federal state. It is out of the question that the collections should be dismantled. I also take note of your response to the central site of the Fiftieth Anniversary. It's no secret to anyone: this site needs it! The government is aware of the problems and international reputation that should be for this site. I'm glad to hear you say it today! Many Brusselsers, Belgians and beyond are attached to this Museum. It is important that this file advance to give this Museum the place it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u54	Madam President, Minister, the lotus position is very effective against rising stress and uncontrollable anger. Indeed, in his question, my colleague has spoken at least six times the word Coxide. As far as I am concerned, I spoke of dismantling when we know very well that there was an intention to send some of the aircraft collections, particularly to Coxide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u55	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u56	Then why didn't you tell my colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u57	Can you tell me when I said that part of the collections would move?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u58	Perhaps I can refer to the sources of my colleague who made a clear reference to Coxide. Anyway, it's okay. I understand I can piss you off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u59	We must stop, Mrs Fernandez, pretending things on the basis of the writings or the words of some, even though it is clear that ideas are being formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u60	I take note that when a colleague from the majority cites a city when there are many rumours that part of the collections would be displaced, you do not have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u62	But you didn't get mad at my colleague by asking him where the name of Coxide he had quoted came from, when it upsets you when I'm talking about dismantling! It's okay, I'm getting used to it! On the other hand, as some of my colleagues have already done, let me remind you that we deeply regret that, in your strategic vision, there are no items devoted to the duty of memory. But maybe I didn't read well? Maybe I can't read or maybe my sources come from somewhere else? Maybe it is. But this is probably due to the fact that I am not quite from here. In doing so, I must not fully understand the situation! Having said that, I welcome the investment made for the 50th anniversary in Brussels. I also welcome your statement that the dismantling or transport of certain collections to Coxide, as my colleague from the majority said, which was announced, envisaged, expected or feared, will not take place. Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u63	Madam President, Minister, on 28 September 2016, the Dutch daily De Telegraaf announced on its website that the Dutch government would ask the Belgian government to extend the Desert Falcon mission alone beyond 1 July 2017. In fact, Commander Tom Middendorp, in charge of Dutch F-16 operations, estimated at a hearing at the Tweede Kamer that the Dutch army was not ready to take over the Belgians on the scheduled date. He has put forward budgetary and logistical reasons (pilot training), precisely the reasons that justified the organization of what is called the "flip-flop" between our country and our northern ally! According to Mr. Middendorp, "the monotony of the mission against Daesh results in a loss of pilot skills for missions other than those involving the bombing of terrorist targets". These views are all the more compelling given that the Belgian and Dutch air forces have similar sizes and theatres of operation. Minister, how will you respond to your Dutch counterpart's request to extend the Desert Falcon mission beyond the original term? Will Belgium alone extend this mission beyond 1 July 2017? Does the Air Component of Defence make the same observation as Commander Middendorp regarding the budgetary and logistical limitations of the mission of our six F-16s in Iraq and Syria? What is your view of the findings of our main military ally in terms of loss of skills? Does this not lead you to fear that massive investment in this type of mission and the replacement of this type of aircraft will be at the expense of our recognized niches of excellence, such as mine clearance, training or transportation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u64	Minister, I will not introduce my questions, since Mr Hellings has already given an introduction. I'd like to answer my questions immediately. In the meantime, have you received an official question from your Dutch colleague? If yes and even if not, what is your position on that question? Have you discussed the possibility of putting our F-16s to longer use in the government? Is an extension possible in budgetary terms? In case the Netherlands abandons the plans to take the turn again, are there any other partners who can join the turn-roll system? Have you discussed this idea with your Dutch colleague, Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u65	Mr Minister, how likely do you think that after July 2017, our country will still have to participate in the Inherent Resolve operation with the F-16 species? We are there in principle until July 2017. If the Dutch abandon, what does that mean for us? Were you officially informed by your colleague? If that is the case, what decision will you refer to the Council of Ministers? If this is not the case, has there already been contact between the two cabinets? What was specifically discussed during that contact? The aim of the agreement between Belgium and the Netherlands was, among other things, to cover the costs, reduce the operational commitment and remove the ceiling. What impact on the budget of the Defense Department has a possible extension? What impact on the operational deployment of our army will a possible extension have? Of course, today the army also carries out a difficult task in the interior with the threat level 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not read De Telegraaf every day, not to say never, but I am pleased to see that even with Ecolo that newspaper belongs to daily literature. That's a good thing! I can confirm, gentlemen, that at the moment there is no official or even unofficial question for the extension of the Desert Falcon operation by my Dutch colleague to myself. It is therefore absolutely premature to give answers on this issue. Defence will carry out the assignment as described in the Belgian-Dutch agreement on this matter. That means that I think our assignment will end on June 30, 2017. As explained in the previous meeting of the Commission for the Follow-up of Operations, the current assignment is carried out within the budgetary and logistical constraints set in advance. The varied participation between our two countries allows to raise the necessary logistical supplies during the periods of non-participation on the one hand in preparation for the next period and, on the other hand, to train the pilots with the aim of obtaining and maintaining the necessary qualifications. Thanks to the alternating participation, well-targeted planning of the training exercises during the stand-by period allows us to maintain the different skills of our pilots at the level. As explained before the parliamentary committee, the contribution of our aircraft to the operations against Daesh is a considerable contribution to the coalition, which is highly appreciated by our allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u67	Mr Minister, first of all, a remark about the fact that the Ecolo-Groen Group is reading De Telegraaf. I encourage you yourself to start reading the French-speaking press and the French press in particular, given the change in your party's tactics with regard to the community domain. You may be interested in the press read in the other Community. I advise you. In fact, Minister, the Dutch are leaving you. When in a "flip-flop", "flip" leaves, there's only "flop" left. That is clearly what the commander said. Earlier, you asked me, it's not in the transcript. You said, "It's not with planes that we demine." That's right, Minister. It's not with planes that we demine. But when the planes, in this case the bomber fighters, take all the means of the Defense, there is no longer any means, potentially later, to do what we are known to be competent in. I think that the obsession and fetishism of the bomber hunters, but above all the missions they carry out, are taking us, and I think that this is the beginning of a finding on the Dutch side, in a budgetary, logistical but above all strategic impasse. We should listen better to what the Dutch tell us. They look like us. We're working together on a lot of theatres of operations. I think they are further in this reflection. I'm sorry to see that with you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u68	Minister, it may be premature to draw conclusions or provoke decisions or reactions. Two references, though. First of all, it is the Dutch Chief of Army who informs us that there are doubts about this. Secondly, when he pronounces that, it is a sign that there is doubt as to whether it will be extended. It is a good thing that we visited SABCA (Société anonyme belge de construction aéronautiques) last week with our committee. During our visit, we were informed that, for the sake of clarity, this is a compliment to the Belgian Defense Department that the operationality of the Belgian aircraft, our F-16 aircraft, was almost 70%. The Dutch, as it was said, have an operationality of 30 % to 35 %. Those figures bother me. It would be good to ask our Dutch fellow Members about this. If this is true, then that is a concern that lives with me and my fellow Members, namely that the Dutch will have no choice but to take on the next round, simply because the operationality of their aircraft is inadequate. It would be good to turn that communication, actually that doubt among Dutch fellow Members of this House, into a point of interest, not to be presented with facts by the beginning or mid-2017 and to extend it, because we are so good with our operationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u69	I can be quite brief, Minister. We will look into this issue if we are formally concerned about the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u70	Madam President, Minister, I have tabled this question following the announcement that an infamous IS headpiece distributes names and photographs of Belgian soldiers with the following message: "An assignment for my brothers in Belgium." That is a clear call for terror against our military. Minister, do you agree with me that this information calls for a new evaluation, in which the Council of Ministers asks whether or not the soldiers on the streets contribute to our security? How does the DOD secure her military? Between the time of submitting my question and today, when I am asking my question, I have already seen a number of press reports on security for the military. Perhaps you could repeat it here or confirm it. Are additional training provided and advice given to our Belgian military, in order to protect their own person?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u71	Madam President, Mr Top, in my answer I will perhaps say a few things twice, but that is because the answer is prepared for combined questions, one of which has been put in French. Some elements of the answer may not concern you, but the whole of the answer is important. First of all, according to OCAM's assessments – which is in charge here – on the level and nature of the threat against military personnel not participating in Operation Homeland, it is unlikely... It is hardly conceivable that defence personnel moving in military vehicles for hours would be targets for terrorists, the OCAD states. However, vigilance instructions are regularly issued to staff. Since 16 January 2015, the presence of uniformed military personnel on the public highway is strictly prohibited, except for activities ordered by the service, and the wearing of uniforms on the home journey – the usual place of work is also prohibited for military personnel. It is therefore clear that military personnel must not wear uniforms during commuting and must not make themselves known as military personnel. Both measures are designed to prevent personnel from becoming targets of attacks by isolated terrorists. The problem of isolated terrorists is even more difficult. After the incident in Charleroi, we know that there are some isolated terrorists. The threat of these terrorists is very difficult to assess. L'armement non létal. This is not in your question but I will say it quickly for the report.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They are trained and trained in their use. They are only equipped as part of an operation, such as Operation Homeland. The military are therefore not armed if they do not carry out an order. The level and nature of the current threat to the military in no way justifies the carrying of this type of armament outside the service. There can be no link between the appearance of names and photos on the internet and the question whether our military contribute to our security. Therefore, my services do not consider that a new evaluation is being carried out. Defense secured his military, both physically and administratively. Physically by providing the necessary protective clothing and armament, and administratively through the operating order regarding the use of social media, the prohibition to wear name tags on military clothing and the demand to the media to make the faces in reports on television and on websites unrecognizable. In addition to the existing training which pays sufficient attention to the risks associated with the careless use of identity data, each military, in addition to the necessary operating rules, is also taught about the rules of conduct in force. So there is still a difference between rules of engagement and rules of conduct. I was able to see the video myself and that turned out to be quite an informative film.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u72	I am pleased to have the answer that the military are effectively getting an operating order, to which you refer. There are a number of points in this report. You also refer to the video. One thing I've learned in the meantime, from my own experience, and that's that repetition works. In that sense, I think that every now and then the military do not need a repeat training of a number of points of interest. Everyone knows that sometimes attention weakens. I do not mean the focus on the actual work, but rather on caring for itself. It's about caring about hiding identity data and paying attention not to put things on social media. Hence my concern and urge that at least our military should focus on all these matters and indeed continue to make this order of operations known. Keep repeating to the military how important it is to take care of their own safety, but also for the safety of their relatives and acquaintances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u73	Minister, ACV Defence conducted a poll, which measured the workload in 2015 in a number of military units spread over six units. This measurement showed that in the workload of those 29 soldiers there is in fact a structural shortage of 21 soldiers, which is more than 70%. The union says that the outdated wage and compensation systems for the military are a result of years of savings. I quote ACV Defense: "The workload for the individual military has reached an abnormally high level." The conclusion is therefore very clear: "The Belgian military are overburdened and underpaid." Tuesday you kicked off in Antwerp for the recruitment campaign for 2017. Compared to this year, the number of recruitments is projected to increase by about 30%. In addition, the number of new recruits should increase year after year in order to achieve a substantial doubling of the number of vacancies by 2021, which can be considered as historically low compared to the current level. I would have liked to ask you the following questions, Minister. Do you recognise the problems that this measurement raises? What will you do to reduce the workload, in the context of current terrorist level 3? What concrete steps will you take to tackle the problem of compensation and compensation systems? Can you explain your recruitment plan with the necessary figures for the coming years up to 202? Does this plan meet the aspirations of ACV Defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u74	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the current remuneration of military personnel deployed is governed by the Law of 20 May 1994 on the financial rights of the military and by the Royal Decree of 18 March 2003 on the remuneration of the military of all grades and on the system of service for the military of the active framework within the rank of officer. The rules on working time and leave are laid down in the rules on working time. You will be surprised, but Defence is applying this law, this royal decree and these regulations, which were also negotiated or consulted with the trade unions. So we're doing what's legal. The budget situation of the department does not allow me to revise the remuneration and compensation system, at least not in the direction desired by the ACV. However, I believe that the fees and compensation granted with the trade union are reasonable. I am aware that the remuneration and compensation system in the police force is different for a similar commitment. I doubt whether the trade unions are asking parties to begin this discussion. In connection with that famous study, it is not known on what elements the ACV has based itself on for the study of workload. The calculations could therefore not be verified, nor to what extent the sample taken is representative of the workload of all the military involved in the operation Homeland. Nevertheless, it is correct, I agree, and I have never denied it, that some military forces are expected to make a great deal of effort today, albeit within the existing legislation, compensation system and so on. As has already been mentioned, the potential for deployable soldiers has been increased, which is about the actions we have taken. The deployment of these soldiers allowed soldiers of the combat units to take their great leave. Normally, there should have been no problems there to take the large leave effectively. The evolution of the planned recruitments for the period 2017-2021, as included in the strategic vision, is 1 160 for the following year and increasing 1 284, 1 409, 1 750 and 2 100 military in 2021, which should be the recruitment level in the regiments. The measures are, at least in my view, the best possible measures in the current budgetary context. The recruitment of new young recruits will in future have to allow a better distribution of the workload among the operational military.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What is applicable today is, of course, legal and perhaps also negotiated with the trade union. So there is no problem at that point. Everything has to do with the fact that today the workload and workload of our military is very high because of the appeal to Defence today. We are also very grateful to our military personnel that they have been in charge of the security of our citizens in the last few months. However, Mr Minister, discussions we have with the military show that it cannot be denied that the continuing pressure and workload can cause problems. That is why, of course, there are also the compensation rules to look at the workload and workload. You indicate that you would like to look at the problem with the trade unions. The same applies, of course, to other segments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u76	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic504x.u77	That's right, of course. However, the dossier should be examined more broadly where appropriate. We therefore call for this to be looked at in a global and wider context and to reduce the workload of the military. That will be good for the morale and employability of our soldiers on land. We also expect that the plan you have proposed, as well as the recruitment campaign, will help to avoid the workload in the future. In the short term, however, it may be useful to take a closer look at the study and consider the possibility of consultation with trade unions in the short term in order to address the problems.
