ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u1	Minister, on 21 January 2014, the Council of Ministers approved the draft royal decrees on the administrative status of operational personnel in relief zones and on the financial status of the same personnel, both of which were adopted on 19 April 2014. The reform therefore led to the establishment of a single statute for the approximately 17,500 professional and volunteer firefighters in the Kingdom. In order to take account of the persistence of their profession, this measure has led to the introduction of a new system for the assignment and redevelopment of professional firefighters' career ends. This development consists mainly of two aspects. First, pre-retirement leave, now referred to as the "end-of-care scheme", is legal for all firefighters at least 58 years of age (57 and a half years if the end-of-care scheme started in 2015) who meet the long-term career conditions for early retirement. Secondly, the reform provides that voluntary reassignment will also be possible at the end of the career. The evolution of this special regime into the 1/50th anniversary must be paralleled with the ambitions of your government. Indeed, the government agreement provides that, during this term of office, a measure will be taken to ensure that all pension rights are set up in the sixth 1/60th for the calculation and access to early retirement – with the exception of heavy trades. Mr President, it is very unpleasant to talk when everyone is talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u2	I ask colleagues to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u3	I think we need a minimum of courtesy and politeness!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u4	Go on, Mrs. Caprasse!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u5	In addition, the Government's statement states that the Government will undertake, in close consultation with the public sector social partners, reforms of the pension system aimed at aligning the pension system of civil servants with those of the private sector. This situation makes professional firefighters fear that the agreements and arrangements provided for under the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 which are justified, among other things, on health grounds as regards firefighters. According to a study commissioned by the Interior FPS, firefighters have a lower life expectancy of about seven years than the average (70.88 years compared to 77.62 years in 2012). Is there, to date, a course of action aimed at reviewing, during this term, the preferential pension scheme for operational personnel in relief zones? If so, what are the guidelines for implementing this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u6	Mrs Caprasse, the rules governing the development of career purposes for staff in rescue zones are statutory rules which fall within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. In the case of early pensions, this staff does not benefit from any preferential arrangements. The applicable rules are those of all agents permanently appointed in the federal public service. In addition, only services rendered as a professional firefighter, which are directly involved in the fight against fire, are taken into account in the pension at the rate of 1/50th. Thus, the administrative or technical functions of a fire brigade cannot give rise to the benefit of this preferential period, which is therefore not a preferential scheme. Therefore, the fact of belonging to an operational unit of a fire department does not automatically entail the granting of an initial 1/50e for the service provided. There is a need for effective and direct participation in the fight against fire. Your question is therefore part of the broader discussion on the recognition of penitibility, which will allow for an anticipation of retirement or a valuation of the pension amount. This reform enshrines the idea of taking into account in the determination of pension rights the reality of the professional functions performed and the hardship attached to them. In this connection, the social partners meeting within the National Pension Committee approved a first report on recognition of pension penitibility. In particular, they took note of the four categories of criteria defined in the public sector discussion. I am thinking in particular of working circumstances, work organisation and high safety risks. They also considered that recognition of penitibility could be granted to workers with a disability or a serious illness. Since the Government has set the budget allocations for the implementation of the reform, the National Pension Committee has been asked to determine precise, objective, registrable and measurable criteria that will enable the identification of occupational categories that can benefit from more favourable pension arrangements. The provisions introducing more favourable pension measures for functions receiving recognition of hardship will enter into force no later than 1 January 2018 to have effect on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u7	Minister, I think the sector will be disappointed. These are really very special occupations in terms of penitibility. I hope, however, that the situation can be reviewed for this category of people, all of whom are fundamentally needed and who are aware of the dangers of the trade. They need special consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u8	Mr President, Minister, in its 2016 workbook on social security, the Court of Auditors analyses in particular the scheme of reduced contributions for supplementary pensions for employed persons. In terms of efficiency and control, the Court takes a serious look at this policy which, in its view, "does not achieve its objective". It notes that "the reserves constituted by the payments made each year and capitalized are very unevenly distributed among the workers and only a minority of the reserves acquired will give rise to a significant supplement to the legal pension". It also notes that "20% of the cost of this social policy (approximately EUR 170 million) is devoted exclusively to providing a high pension supplement to a minority of workers, i.e. 0.5%". In 2015, the Court made three recommendations: the reduction of the statutory threshold from which the special contribution of 1.5% is due for more payments for supplementary pensions to be covered, the increase in the social contribution rate and the application of traditional social contributions to payments exceeding a certain limit. To date, these proposals have not been implemented. Minister, what is your reaction to this opinion of the Court of Auditors on reduced contributions for supplementary pensions for employees? For what reason(s) have the 2015 recommendations not been implemented? Will they be in the near future? Are you prepared to move towards threshold and rate modelling based on the expertise of ONSS and Sigedis? Have any work or consultations been initiated for this purpose? Do you intend to implement this reform as part of the recasting of the 1.5% contribution calculation which will come into force on January 1st? This, Minister, is my question from October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u9	(...) in my answer to its oral question of 4 December 2015, I draw the same lessons as the Court of Auditors, namely that unfortunately not all citizens yet benefit from a second pillar and that if they benefit from it, it is insufficient. That is why, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions, and again recently in the context of the discussion on my policy note, I am considering various measures to democratise and strengthen the second pillar. More specifically, on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors of 2015, they concern matters which fall within the competence of my colleague Mr. Van Overtveldt for the tax recommendations and my colleague Mrs De Block for the collection of social security contributions. I intend to meet with them very soon on the follow-up to be given to the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u10	Minister, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you, your role is to strengthen the statutory pension, the first pillar of the pension that is accessible to everyone. It must be stated objectively that the mechanisms of the second pillar have a very high cost and benefit only part of the workers. Since these deductible contributions are not capped, an extraordinary inequality between workers is created. The Court of Auditors has already made regular remarks on this issue, which I have relayed. The government, since it does not concern you alone, has not yet worked on this issue. I regret this because in terms of the effectiveness of public policies, in terms of costs and equality of workers, and therefore in terms of access to pensions which are finally sufficient for all, this is an important bias. I expect you to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u11	At the end of September, Minister, you asked the Management Committee to give its opinion on the draft general rules on the retirement and survivor's pension for workers as regards the equivalence of the health credit. The aim of KB's design is to take into account the Flemish health credit in the existing pension regulations of the employees. The Flemish healthcare credit, a scheme for the partial or complete interruption of work benefits with the benefit of statutory interruption benefits, has replaced the existing federal system since 2 September 2016. Strikingly, in the design of KB, you propose not to include previously recorded periods for determining the maximum duration of the healthcare credit. However, Flanders will set the counter to zero from 2 September 2016. This means that those who have already recorded and started working with the Flemish government for 18 months are entitled to 18 months of care credit, but will not get an equalisation for the pension for that period. Therefore, the person concerned will have a gap of 18 months in his or her career for that period. Flanders asked for this federal arrangement quickly in order to clarify things for the people. It was assumed that equivalence was not a problem because the abolition of the end-of-life scheme was a saving and therefore also a saving in pensions. You are going one step further, Minister. Hence my questions. How do you justify this saving in pensions on the roof of the people who take up a healthcare credit? How do you intend to explain the system of equivalences, taking into account the earlier and more complex similarities, such as counting the periods of runways for people with a career of 35 years? My main question is how you are going to straighten this out, because those people have a gap of 18 months in their career that is not counted for the calculation of their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u12	Mr President, in the context of the sixth state reform, the Regions bear the responsibility for introducing their system of rules on career breaks. When the system of health credit was introduced in Flanders, the numerator on leave itself was indeed set to zero. This means that from 2 December 2016, every Flemish official is entitled to the maximum period of care credit, without taking into account the engagements already taken up in the past. However, the care credit does not contain any provision relating to the equivalence of the pension, which falls within the competence of the Federal State. The introduction of this new leave must not have the effect of extending the equivalences granted for this type of leave. The introduction of the healthcare credit itself or the transfer of an official from the federal level to the Flemish level should not create double rights for the equalisation of the career break. It is therefore not a question of limiting the rights which are intended to save money, but of avoiding an increase in costs. It also concerns the avoidance of the granting of different rights in relation to specific situations. It is unacceptable for an official to enjoy higher pension rights simply because he has already been able to benefit from a career break or a time loan in the past. With regard to your second question concerning the provision of information on the system of equivalence, I do indeed think it is necessary for the administration to examine this question. The sixth state reform requires different leave schemes to be taken into account. It would be useful to inform citizens correctly about the evolution of their pension rights, taking into account these different systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to my second question, in particular that you will improve the information. As for my first question, I don't understand. You're taking those 18 months off. It is not an additional or double calculation for your pension. You're just gonna take them away. If one had stayed in the same system, one would simply have counted those 18 months. Because Flanders puts them at zero, they are now excluded from the pension calculation. That's the problem. It's not a double count at all, but it's a reduction. You say otherwise it would be an increase. No, it would stay the same if you counted them. Now it's a reduction. The people who switch have a 18-month gap in their careers. It is as if there was nothing, while in those 18 months they were covered by a statute, namely the health credit. You say that you no longer count this and that it is not a saving. It's definitely a saving. If you don't, it wouldn't be an increase, but an equal budget. I am very sorry that you are making savings on the hood of people taking care credits, because that is what it is in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u14	Minister, a while ago, the new chairman of the Insurance Federation, Assuralia, reiterated his view that the statutory guaranteed interest rate for group insurance should be reduced. That is what we heard from the press in October. On the basis of your reply, I conclude that you are prepared to accept this. At least that's weird. On the one hand, you say that you are making every effort to generalise the second pillar. Recently, you proposed to exchange a wage premium for a higher supplementary pension. On the other hand, do everything you can to keep the legally guaranteed return low. There has already been a reduction and you would now, according to the press at least, be prepared to answer that question again. By the way, Mr President, you will also be asking a question about this later, and I believe that the issue will also be discussed in the hearings following the Christmas ceremony on the second pillar. Mr Minister, this will of course undermine confidence in supplementary pensions. This was also the opinion of the President of the Association of Belgian Pension Funds. Belgium is already one of the countries where private sector employees are making a major financial step backwards for statutory pensions. If you also touch the supplementary pension, there are many financial consequences. In what way do you think you will be able to warm citizens up to the supplementary pension if you continue to systematically reduce the legally guaranteed return? Have you discussed this with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u15	Mr Minister, I have also tabled a question on this subject. You've read it. I won't repeat them. I'd like your answer. There is no point in reading questions that have already been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u16	I believe that addressing the issue of the legal guarantee of performance was a prerequisite for reassuring all the actors involved in supplementary pensions, i.e. employers, sectors, pension organisations and of course workers. If we had not done so, the development of the second pillar of pensions would have been really compromised. I have on this issue, by the law of 18 December 2015, implemented the agreement of the social partners in the Group of Ten on 16 October 2015. The social partners have agreed on the minimum of 1.75%. It is not my intention to discuss this minimum rate without an agreement from the social partners. However, this does not mean that my attention is derived from the problem. I will continue to monitor the situation closely and listen to the various actors, in particular the social partners. It should also be noted that Assuralia has since nuanced its position, stressing the importance of investing in infrastructure projects. On that occasion, I indicated that I was in favour of any measures that would allow pension organizations - insurers and pension funds - to manage their assets in the long term. The real challenge is the management of long-term assets, which allows pension organizations to invest in infrastructure projects such as schools, roads and hospitals. Such investments should allow equivalent and even higher returns than the yields of government bonds, currently the main investment of insurers, and in the longer term, which will enable pension institutions to better cover the statutory return guarantee borne by employers and sectors. Such investments will not only support the economy, but will even grow. As for the impact of reducing the performance guarantee, it is difficult to assess, since it is a safety net that only intervenes if the pension organization does not provide sufficient performance. The assessment of this impact therefore implies that the performance of the pension organization can be determined by affiliation. It is in principle only at the time of the retirement of the affiliate that this impact can be assessed. The supplementary pension data bank cannot help assess this impact, as it can only give a picture at a given time of the rate of coverage of the guarantee of return on reserves acquired, but it cannot prejudge whether the guarantee of return will have to be activated at the time of retirement of the member.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u17	Mr President, if you say from now on that the question does not need to be read, that is not a problem for me. I would also like to hear the Minister's answer directly. However, that has to be agreed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u18	I used to be in the club of "Hello, Mr. Owl," where people learn to read. I'm not here to read questions, I'm here to do politics. I'm not saying you do, but some do here, and I think it's lame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u19	I did not take that personally either, and I am prepared to respond to that suggestion and only to hear the answer and to reply. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. That is, on the one hand, reassuring and, on the other hand, disturbing. It is reassuring that you will discuss this with the social partners. The first time you put a part of the social partners against the wall, so they accepted the 1.75 %. I hope this will not be the case, but I fear a little. It is also reassuring that you will invest in schools and public works, because it stimulates the economy. Minister, you need to do more. Let the government invest in schools and public works. Even if it is a competence of the Regions, I know, but really, do that, that stimulates the economy. It's a good thing you said the same thing. Let us not forget that, if you leave that to the private sector and there is a problem like we had in 2009, then there will be no more investment in schools and public works. Take a look at the road network in the United States to see the consequences of such a policy. Minister, it is reassuring that you do not respond directly to Assuralia's question. It is worrying that you consider it one of the possibilities of bringing down the guaranteed interest rate once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u20	Minister, I am also pleased with your answer that there is no further reduction to be made, for which I would like to thank you. It is important that the conversation with those involved is about the long term. If one stares blind each time for the next two or three years, the return must be adjusted each time. The question is therefore whether, if the economy suddenly goes very well with 5% or 6%, it will also go in this direction. I regret that we are still seeing far too few transparent accounts of insurance companies. If it is difficult, it is easy to say that we need to be cut short, when we have little insight into the accounts and the costs that are being incurred. That is a difficult problem; in any case, transparency will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u21	Mr Hedebouw is not present. He's probably gonna argue, or he's gonna strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u22	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government announced in its policy statement the raising of the retirement age of railway workers. It will be increased from 55 to 57 years in 2018 and increased from six months a year to 63 years in 2030, increasing the career from a minimum of 30 years today to 42 years in 2030. Even though it provoked the anger of union representatives, this announcement is not surprising. The changes in working methods and working conditions have, fortunately, reduced the tenibility of certain jobs. The specific arrangements associated with them to compensate for the physical and psychological hardship they caused cannot, in the name of greater equity and solidarity between all workers in order to cope with the growth in pension expenditure, save an update. The question therefore is, Mr Minister, on what basis, what job situation analyses and negotiations between the two sides of industry, the amendments will be made to the railway workers' pension scheme. Can you tell us what process has been put in place to bring about this reform? Can you tell us what the real progress has been in the National Pension Council with regard to redefinition, recalibration of difficult jobs, in the light of changing working conditions? Can you give us the reasons for a time-modulated change in the retirement age of railway workers? How have the papy boom, technological and computer developments, and the financial balances of pension funds affected the definition of these new conditions for access to pensions? Can you tell us how many retirements are planned throughout the transition period? The unions point to the risk of serious operational and security problems, linked to a decrease in vigilance, which would be caused by the change in the pension age. They are also concerned about the possible difficulty in recruiting new staff due to the lack of attractiveness of the trades concerned. Yesterday, in the Infrastructure Committee, Minister Bellot told us that there was an influx of candidates! How do you respond to the fears expressed? Do you have any information to contact us, in connection with your colleague the Minister of Mobility, about the SNCB's job promotion and recruitment campaign? How many of the proposed driver's and attendant's positions receive applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u23	Minister, I refer to the written record of my question. One of my questions is about the following. The retirement age of 55 seems to apply not only to train drivers, i.e. the people who drive the trains, but also to train conductors, i.e. people who cut tickets. Can you explain why the retirement age is also determined in this way for those people? That is completely unclear to me. The rest of my questions can be found in the written record of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u24	Colleagues, as you know, the Constitutional Court, by its judgment of 10 July 2014, annulled the preferential regime of the police officers which allowed them to leave early on to the pension. In fact, SNCB's rolling staff, i.e. train attendants and train drivers, as well as the military, are the last two special public sector pension schemes. For reasons of fairness, the government has therefore decided to put an end to it. However, this will only occur when the new provisions to take account of penitibility in the determination of pension rights have been adopted, i.e. at the earliest on 1 January 2018, and gradually. The return on this measure was estimated for 2018 at EUR 500 000; for 2019 at EUR 1.3 million; for 2020 at EUR 500 000; for 2021 at EUR 1.5 million and for 2022 at EUR 6.9 million. I would remind you that the recognition of penitibility will allow an anticipation of retirement and/or a valuation of the amount of the pension. I met the trade union representatives of the railways on 24 October last and I was able to explain to them the government's decision. I have confirmed to them the connection made by the government with the file on the heavy professions and indicated that there is scope for negotiation, which should allow for the definition of the transitional provisions aimed at taking into account certain situations, in particular those of persons approaching the pension. In view of the progress made in the file on the recognition of the heavy professions, which is currently being discussed in the National Pension Committee, I would refer you to the answer I gave to oral question No. 14364 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse. Questions about the number of retirements, the recruitment campaign and the number of train attendants and drivers to be filled are obviously within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Mobility. Let me turn to the question of recognition of penitibility. Without prejudging the discussions that will take place at the level of the National Pension Committee, I can say that, in my mind, this debate must take place essentially on the functions, and that in the same occupation, there may be differences in penitibility. As I said for the firefighters, there is a difference between those who go to the fire and those who are in the administration. For the train attendants, there is a difference between those who perceive – the punchers of the Lilas, to take over the song of Gainsburg – and the drivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u25	Mr Minister, it does seem to me logical that, in the name of equality, everyone can gradually achieve the same situation, while taking into account, as you yourself have pointed out, the persistence. I think this should reassure a whole series of people. The same applies to the fact that the reform is only taking place from January 2018. As was mentioned yesterday in the Committee on Infrastructure, there is, on the basis of this, some anticipation, and there are some retirements depending on what is happening. Perhaps I will go back to more ad hoc items, but your answer already suits me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u26	Minister, I refer to the written record of my question. I won't read them to you. May I have the answer for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u27	(...) the tyrannical preferences are true for all professions, including the police. Preferential years will be maintained as long as the reform to take account of penitibility in pension rights does not enter into force. This retention applies to all categories of personnel who currently benefit from a second preference, in particular for police officers who benefit from a second of 1/50th. Since the budgetary envelopes intended to finance the heavy-duty professions were established in each of the three pension systems from 2019 onwards, the National Pension Committee was invited to continue its work by setting criteria for the gravity of the occupation, which are precise, objective, verifiable and measurable and which will allow the identification of the occupational categories that will benefit from the more advantageous modalities in relation to the pension. It is therefore still a little premature to comment on the gravity of some function and on the use of the envelope. The provisions introducing more favourable pension measures for functions receiving recognition of penitibility should enter into force no later than 1 January 2018, to have effect on 1 January 2019. The National Pension Committee is one of the areas for negotiation. But for the police, for example, there is also Committee A, as for everything that concerns the public service in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u28	Thank you, Minister. That's enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u29	Mr President, Minister, when you presented your general policy note, you told us that the budget for penitentiaries would be distributed as follows in 2019: EUR 24 million for employees, EUR 15 million for civil servants and EUR 1 million for the self-employed. For 2020, these amounts would be doubled You then mentioned that this would amount to EUR 14 billion by 2060 and added that this amount would coincide with the savings achieved through the abolition of the tantèmes and special schemes. Minister, I would like to take this supplementary question and ask you to provide me in detail with the amount of savings achieved through the removal of these tyrannaries and preferential schemes for 2019 and 2020? More broadly, can you also provide us with an estimate, per plan, of the budget needed to take account of the penitibility in 2060? It was you who took this relatively distant reference. In other words, in 2060, what budget should be provided for the three schemes? If you don't mind, I'll add something up. You have always said, particularly in the context of the presentation of your general policy note, that this reform should be carried out with the social partners and that the concepts of closed envelopes and communication vessels referred to were the subject of great consensus. However, very recently, it would seem that you have decided to go beyond these social partners. This has in any case been perceived and commented on in this way. The latter would no longer be involved in the continuation of the file as part of the precise definition of difficult tasks and occupations. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, why such a decision? If you go past them at this point, I fear that this reform will never receive the overall social support needed for such a reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u30	Mr President, I would like to point out that, in the context of the implementation of the government agreement, which provides for the setting of specific pension provisions for heavy trades, it has been decided to organise work in three phases. The first is to establish cross-cutting categories of criteria. We did it. The second is to define the budget allocations for taking account of penitibility. Here too, we have succeeded. Now comes the third phase, aimed at applying the precise criteria to the different functions. For the first phase, I will not recall the four categories we have established, because they are known. The social partners also considered that recognition of penitibility could be granted to workers with a disability or a serious illness. This is an essential aspect, because beyond the collective approach, an individual approach for people with disabilities and chronically ill people is needed. On 26 November, we agreed on budget allocations. From 2019 onwards, those to be fixed for each pension scheme will be released in order to cover the cost of early retirement or the valuation of the pension amount for workers in a difficult occupation. These are maximum envelopes, which evolve upwards over time. This is logical, since cohorts of retirees are added as pension rights related to penitibility are created. As you said, in 2019 the amounts will be 24 million, 16 million, and 1 million, i.e. a total of 41 million euros; in 2020, 38 million, 32 million and 2 million, i.e. seventy-two million euros. As to whether they are sufficient, I would like to point out that the expenditure on the financing of penitibility for 2060 represents, in the public sector alone, a cumulative investment of EUR 14 billion. This sum corresponds to the sum of the cumulative savings resulting from the abolition of the tantieths. This is obviously not nothing, since we are talking about extremely important things. Given the budgetary context, this is a considerable effort that has been made by the government. More specifically, I would like to point out that the economy achieved by the abolition of the tyrannical and preferential regimes varies greatly from year to year, depending in particular on the reforms already decided. For example, for 2019, the economy is 166 million. For 2020, it is 318 million. As the budget envelopes have been set, discussions will continue within the National Pension Committee in order to determine precise, objective and registrable criteria that will allow the identification of occupational categories that can benefit from more favourable pension arrangements. The recognition of penitibility will allow an anticipation of retirement or a valorisation of the pension amount. However, I am not currently in a position to say what the implications of penitibility will be on a particular function. Once a budget has been established, the social partners within the National Pension Committee will be able to define the criteria to be taken into account and the way in which they are implemented. The importance of pension rights linked to penitibility will, of course, depend on the target audience to be proposed by the social partners. It is therefore not in any way a matter of short-circuiting the National Pension Committee. Again, we are faced with a rather scandalous misinformation, but I am used to it and no longer formalize! What is true is that the centre of expertise, which was created to assist the National Pension Committee, will be used. We're not going to come to the National Pensions Committee and say, "Ladies, gentlemen, what do you want? Who raises his hand? What do you want for such a profession?" No. We're not going to work like butterflies! We will indeed work on the basis of scripts, simulations, presentations by the centre of expertise and thus by the administrations. We didn't say anything other than that! If they want the administration not to take care of it, let them go! They'll never be penitent! If we short-circuit the administration, I don't see how we're going to apply penitibility or on what basis! So I call for a minimum of intelligence, I dare the word! Let's stop the permanent misinformation!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for these interesting reminders and clarifications. Could you confirm what I noticed on the flight? The abolition of the tantèmes and preferential schemes would bring in 166 million in 2019 and 318 million in 2020, is that right? [[Sentiment]] For the public sector, there will be a savings of 318 million in 2020, of which 30 million will be reinjected into the public service. Is that it? And so, in 2020, with 70 million reinjected for penitibility and 318 million saved, that makes 250 million savings on system change.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u32	Mr President, I would like to provide further information. This also takes into account the reforms initiated by the previous government, in particular the gradual reduction of the coefficient of increase. You know the technique of the coefficient of increase. The previous government had decided to reduce it gradually. These are decisions that have already been taken. This represents a very important part of the economy achieved. It's part of the tantèmes, but they're not really tantèmes. That's the mark-up factor. These are previous decisions, which follow their course. Progressivity had been planned. We decided to confirm this and move towards the 1/1 increase coefficient. In the long run, there will in fact be no coefficient of increase. That's the role of the economy. It is important to note that if we make a curve, year by year, on the suppression of tantheme and a curve on the introduction of penitibility, at some point, there are very large lags. But sometimes the shift is reversed. And in total, when we get to the end, at 14 billion, the figures are extremely comparable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u33	In the Public Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u34	In the public service, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u35	Last item in relation to the role of the LWOP. Do you confirm that he keeps and that he will retain a role of choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u36	Of course. But we have to prepare for the meetings. We can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u37	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u38	Question No 14801 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u39	Minister, since you have read the question, I will not rest it here. When are you going to determine the modalities, especially on individual supplementary pensions? That's my only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u40	I asked Mr. Vandenbroucke. Last Friday I met all the members of the Academic Council to talk again about this carte blanche and its sequels as well as the supplementary free pension for employees. I reiterated that I want to work under section 33 of the Supplementary Pensions Act 2003, which already provides for the possibility of a supplementary free pension for workers leaving a company to go to another company, where there is no supplementary free pension. The idea is to work primarily on companies or sectors where there is currently no supplementary free pension for employees. However, this corresponds to 35% of workers, which is not neutral. The aim is to ensure that the latter have an opportunity to turn to this type of supplementary pension. I have already asked the Academic Council several months ago to set up a working group on this issue. I asked again last Friday to activate this working group to make a number of proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u41	All right! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u42	As Ms Jadin was not present, her questions Nos. 15182 and 15311 were deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat all the introductory developments that I have had the opportunity to make in particular in the context of the presentation of the policy note. My observation is that you align yourself with the least advantageous conditions. I'd like to try to understand your project. Perhaps I wasn't in the best conditions to understand the explanations well, but I have the feeling that there was some confusion in the explanation that day. This became a little clearer thanks to the press afterwards. For example, the person who buys back four years of education in 2020 will pay, after a reduction – a notion that I did not get well – 5,400 euros to receive an additional 1,000 euros of pension, without taking into account the tax deductibility. It is an element that emerges from the press article that followed the words of your spokesman. In this article, it is also stated that after three years of pension, the expenditure will be amortized for the pensioner if tax deductibility is taken into account. Of course, this obliges us to reconsider the incremental effect of the operation. Indeed, one can hope for the pensioner that he will be pensioned for more than three years. At some point, this will therefore cost sums that can be considerable for the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I wish you could have made that point clear. The reform is challenged by each other with different arguments. I would have liked to know, beyond this additional cost for social security, who will be able to benefit during the three-year transitional period from this €1,500 per year of study and when an actuarial basis is applied. In the discussion, an actuarial basis was mentioned that somewhat blends these concepts of capitalization and distribution system. Could you clarify these elements a little?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u44	Minister, I also asked questions. I am not going to repeat the debate that took place at the last plenary session because, since then, there have been more articles in the newspapers, as you have read, especially on the famous amount of 250 euros. Is it gross or net? And the famous taxing of which we are world champions, that is, when we receive something, everything goes towards the state. So, what's the answer to people who want to know if the state is going to lose it is no. In view of the article on taxation that I read, the state would gain. I think we'll have to keep people informed. It becomes so complex that an information campaign will be necessary. I have a few questions. First, I asked the question and have not yet had an answer on the maximum. Suppose someone is entitled to maximum pensions. If he or she purchases these famous years of study, could he or she go beyond the maximum legal pension? The second question, I also asked in committee, and I was not answered. There are today people who are there with several degrees (bachelor, master, Ma-na-ma), there are even a few here in the room. The question I'm asking is whether this applies to more than one diploma, to one diploma, or to the choice of diploma. Thirdly, the question was asked with Jan Spooren on the calculation. You gave the figures until 2022, but now we are interested in the long-term result, that is, when the supplementary pensions will be paid, so later than 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u45	Mr President, I would like to join you. I'm gonna do this in Dutch. We held a debate in plenary on the long-term financial impact of this arrangement. Here the question is asked how useful it is for those who want to buy off their years of study, especially because they are going to skim something off tax. A number of articles have been published in the press. I shall then come to my questions which are simply in line with the questions put by the President. Is it correct, Minister, that buying-in is only beneficial to those who have a low pension? As soon as one enters a higher pension category, it would be skimmed extra. If so, are you planning measures, probably in cooperation with your colleague Van Overtveldt, to look at this tax? In what way will you inform people about this and clarify it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u46	I would point out that the transitional period may be extended to civil servants, employees and self-employed persons whose diploma, doctorate or vocational qualification were obtained more than 10 years ago when the new provisions entered into force. In fact, the three-year transitional period concerns workers who already have at least 10 years of career at any time of their life. In any case, it takes ten years of career. If they have less than 10 years of career, it is not a transitional period. It will always be like that. With less than ten years of career, it'll be like now. Now, salaried workers, if they have less than ten careers, pay €1,415 per year. So they'll pay a little more: 85 euros more. It's to put everyone on an equal footing. The aim of this is the harmonisation of regimes. It is to ensure that it is the same for civil servants, employees and the self-employed. That is the motivation for reform. It means that everyone, for the first ten years, will pay the same. Beyond the ten years, the actual cost will be paid on an actuarial basis. Everyone will be staying at the same sign. Apart from the transitional period, in total, this means that for civil servants it will no longer be free. They'll have to pay. It's always a recipe, never an expense since before, the expense existed. For those who will not buy back, the expense will decrease. For those who buy back, the recipe will increase. In terms of the state budget, we're still winning, no matter what. That's right. For employees, this will not change much either, except that they will pay a little more. They will pay 1,500 euros instead of 1,415 euros. So, for the state budget, - I'm not talking about the transitional period here, I'm talking about the current period - it's never going to be an extra cost. Then comes the transitional period, to put everyone back on the same starting line. We had to do something for the officials. One could not tell them, overnight, that the free and the possibility of buying back was removed. No, we wanted there to be a chance to buy back for three years. And to stimulate this, we have even planned that there would be a reduction for two years, only for public servants. This three-year transition period also exists for employees. What would employees think that civil servants were entitled to a three-year transitional period when they were not entitled to it because they already had ten years of career? There was therefore inequality which was not compatible with non-discrimination. It is therefore also necessary to give this transitional period for employees. A number of employees were expected to pay this contribution during the transitional period. It is an evaluation that is only a forecast, it is difficult to say who will actually do it. For 2017, there are 41 million, for 2018, 36 million, for 2019, 6 million. On the other hand, this generates a progressive cost, since those who are going to buy back their years of study and who have not integrated this possibility will necessarily constitute pension rights. In terms of cost, it also depends on how much will be done. I don't know! Since an estimate had to be made, a cost of $5 million was projected in 2020, $7 million in 2021, $7.5 million in 2022. Of course, we are well below what the contributions at that time report. These pension rights will be maintained, but not for very long. Indeed, they will mainly concern workers rather at the end of their careers. Why? Because it is the only ones who can really assess whether it is in their interest to use it. They must therefore know the length of their career and the number of years in which they intend to work. You must not, of course, buy back your years of study if you already have a sufficient career. That would make no sense. I'm going to answer Mr. Van Quickenborne on the maximum. In the pension system of the employees, pension rights are not built up on top of the unit of career, which is 45/45th. The regularization of a academic year does not allow this limit to be exceeded. It is not possible to move the boundary. I would remind you that it is 1 670 euros net. It's relatively low. Compared to the evaluation up to 2022, I asked the administration to make longer-term calculations. I therefore now look forward to the answers for the years to come. We don't have to go too far because people who already have 10 years of careers, because they are 50 or 55 years old, will regularize because they think it's advantageous. They won't have 45 years of career. It only concerns a limited period of time. After three years, we won't be able to do it anymore. These people will gradually approach the pension in the years 2030-2035. After that, the effect is completely extinguished. Now, at the level of taxation, is it interesting to buy back these career years? That's why I had a little smile reading the press and the various comments. People said that the 1,500 euros being tax deductible, that's 750 euros. Yes, for people who have a salary that allows them to pay 50% tax. We're there fast, all right. What people forgot to say is that 250 euros generated per year of study are also taxable. They look surprised now. That's right, when you make a living in Belgium, you pay taxes. That's the truth. So, obviously, there's a tax return behind that. Especially since they are people who have completed higher education and normally have relatively high incomes. They are beyond the tranches that were mentioned in the press today or yesterday. It is true that below 15 518 euros of pension, in Belgium, taxes are not paid. And then there's a slice. Between 15 518 and 16 900 euros, more or less, one falls into taxation because the additional reduction provided for in Article 154 no longer applies. Before last year – remember, it was voted unanimously by this Parliament – the situation was even worse. Indeed, we paid more taxes than we received. Last June, if I remember correctly, pensions were indexed. They were increased by 2 per cent. In doing so, the persons concerned had to pay a little more tax. In fact, together with Mr Laaouej and Mrs Wilmès, who at the time was a parliamentarian, I solved this problem. We have ensured that an increase will no longer result in the payment of a tax higher than the increase. This does not mean, however, that, within this narrow limit, you do not pay a great deal of tax in relation to what you receive. That's right! The structure remains. Why? Because from a certain ceiling, the additional deductibility provided for in section 154 is lost. In this case, we pay a lot of taxes compared to what we receive. That is the truth. So not everyone in this group has a lot of advantages in buying back their years of study. But those who have completed their studies in higher education have a higher pension. We forget to say it. This reasoning therefore makes no sense. Very few people with higher education receive a pension of 15 518 euros. They all receive more than that amount. In doing so, they have a certain advantage in doing so. But they will still pay a lot of taxes. It's Belgium. This represents more or less half of the original amount. So, saying we're gonna get back in three years is not fair. It will take at least six to seven years. This obviously relativizes the extra cost. I think it is important to properly integrate all the bases and not to take a single element into account. We have to take them all. I believe that, overall, the measure will remain favourable in budgetary terms for the State. I would remind you that, for civil servants, there are 25 million savings per year. 25.3 million for 2017, 25.6 million for 2018 and so on. There is still an economy that remains an economy. For employees, there is an economy at the beginning of the transitional period, of course, and then there is a small burden. I think, however, from the evidence I currently have, that the burden will always be lower than the economy. This must never be a cost, especially since, of course, the increase in income through the purchase of years of study will be taxed. On the other hand, I would add that many people born before 1950, 1952, 1953 and even a little later who will have to work until the age of 67, will have much less interest in buying back their years of study because if they have completed 4 years of studies, they start at the age of 22. If they're up to 65, yes, they'd better buy back two years to have 45 years of career. But if they go up to 67, they don't have to buy back their years of study because they'll already have 45. It is therefore necessary to put all this into perspective and to take account of all developments. Those who are going to go to 67 today and who have completed higher education, these are not going to buy back their years of study, unless they started very late, this can happen. They are not, however, the majority in this case. These are the few things I wanted to bring about in this somewhat difficult debate, I think, which is still subject to a lot of evaluations and negotiations. I don't think we have a key solution on the door today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u47	Minister, thank you for these elements that will be complex for the citizen who will have to make the choice. You can't say it's a bet on the future, but there's a lot of strangers. When I hear you and when I add what I've heard before, I feel that, in the end, it will affect few people. You are a bit of a bet, when you say 83 million, namely 41, 36 and 6 million euros in additional revenue. If we take an average of 4 000 euros, this means that it will affect 20 000 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u48	Today, it is (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u49	I think or rather I fear that this will affect few people in the end. Is this not a way to dress the levelling down and simply the removal for public servants? You said it and repeated it: that's going to pay off. It is this decrease that is dressed in the framework of this harmonisation. That is my conclusion at this stage. I still have a little technical question that we can come back to. What will be the impact of abolishing the career unit? This can also influence calculations in a way that benefits the employee or the employee. It may make this attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u50	I think it would be a good thing, because it is indeed a complex matter, and it is a very good tool on MyPension that makes you a very good tool that is often consulted when the measure enters into force, a simulation so that people can always see whether it is interesting for them or not. Otherwise, it's gonna be a cat in a bag. No one likes that. I therefore believe that this is really necessary. That's the only suggestion I'd like to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. For me, a few new elements have been added which place everything in a larger picture, including taxation. However, I still disagree with the fact that during the transitional period for workers, even after those ten years, the older workers who go to the end of their careers can now make the calculation and then actually choose what is beneficial for them. Things are being taken from the civil servants. I understand that a transitional period will then be introduced in which they will be able to obtain a slightly more favourable regime. That seems to me to be the logic itself. I don't understand why you're saying you're gonna put this right in that transition period. That workers can buy after ten years, which is not the case now, I agree with that, but it must be against these actuarially correct conditions as it will be after that transitional period. That is why I come to my second point. You shouldn't just make that calculation until 2020-2021. Then the revenue will come. You should also look at the impact of paying higher pensions if everyone can choose à la carte at the end of their career: it is better for me, not for the others. I believe that the whole pension system has just been built on a piece of actuarial data. If that is to be completely removed for people who can be in a very large number of cases, I still fear, as I said in plenary, that this financial impact will be enormous in the transitional period. So these calculations have to be made right. Thirdly, there is something which reassures me somewhat and which I had not thought of. If one looks at the whole reform and takes into account taxation, then a number of people who buy out years of study and get a higher pension will lose it back, either because they have worked for a long time or because taxation comes into play. That will indeed balance the long-term costs or it will be more advantageous for the State. To close, I'd really like to see those calculations for the employees. I believe that this will be discussed at cabinet level, because if it shows that the cost is going to be too high, then we really should not do so. That wouldn't be fair to the next generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u52	Minister, I am sure you have read my question. So I will not repeat them. It concerns the specific problem that I have already mentioned when discussing your policy paper. By increasing the age from 60 to 65 years to take up a supplementary pension, there is less pension than initially promised, even though a company has the money to do so. Do you know of this problem? Are you aware of the problem? Do you agree that this situation may never have been the intention of the legislator and that it may need to be remediated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u53	The situation is well known to me, as it is a situation to which the law of 18 December 2015 was just about to put an end. It concerns the clauses of pension plans which end at 65 years and which provide that the worker leaving at the age of 60 receives the same capital as that he would have received at 65 years, or a more favourable capital than that corresponding to the actuarial reduction in his capital, as a result of his early retirement. These clauses of the pension plans discourage workers from remaining in service for longer periods of time. The aim of the law is to put an end to such clauses. It should be noted that, under the social legislation on supplementary pensions, those clauses do not give the worker any right as long as he or she has not reached the age of 60. There is therefore no progressive build-up of rights in relation to that clause during the career. In some cases the employer, although not legally obliged to do so, has nevertheless committed himself to offering the employee a progressive build-up of rights. In view of this very specific situation, which represents a limited number of cases, the law has provided for a protection measure to ensure that the employee does not suffer any loss in respect of the rights he has acquired until the entry into force of the law. In this case, the employee is entitled at least to what he has built up until the date of entry into force of the law. From the entry into force of the law, the employee will continue to build up rights in accordance with the pension plan, without applying the clause. It should also be noted that the prohibition on these clauses does not apply to workers who reach the age of 55 by 31 December 2016. It is a very generous transitional measure as it retains the application of these clauses for a considerable number of years to come. Finally, the problem to which you refer is complex and specific to some exceptional plans whose commitment by employers is expressed in interest rather than capital. The law should therefore not be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a complex matter. It is not about a lot of people, but several companies have appealed to me to point out the situation, in particular that the pension amount will be reduced. In fact, it should mean that people would get the money they were promised, although later, but still the sum they were promised. On the basis of your reply, I will look again at the consequences. It seems to me that a number of people will get less pension under this law and that this was not the intention of the legislator at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u55	Mr Minister, I have tabled an oral question on the equalisation of pensions. You were able to read the written text of that question. I listen with great attention to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u56	For the second point in your question, I refer to the answer I gave to oral question No. 14364 by Mrs Caprasse. On the third point of your question, you will find in the law of 21 July 1844 the table which takes back the active services giving entitlement to preferential treatment 1/50: pilots, post officers, air traffic controllers, etc. Enjoy also the preferential tantième 1/50: the police officers, the military, the firefighters who are directly responsible for the fight against fire. Enjoy the tantième 1/48: the running staff of SNCB, the magistrates, the university professors, the members of the Court of Auditors, the provincial governors and vice-province governors, the district commissioners and the deputy district commissioners, the mayors. Enjoy the tantième 1/50: the teaching staff, the non-driving staff of SNCB. Those preferential tantiemes will be abolished once the regulations on the recognition of the gravity of the work have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u57	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor and the Presidency to Mr Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u58	Minister, I will be brief. For the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, or even beyond, we would like to obtain the impact achieved by what you have planned to take as measures from 2017 and which are, as part of the budgetary changes, assessed as an overall impact. I know the FPS Management Committee has requested this. He wouldn't have gotten it. It is clear that this gives a negative impression and contempt that arouses suspicion. I know it's a lot of numbers, but can you give us more precise information to better assess the impact of each one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u59	(...) at the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2016 report on an overall performance for the new pension measures. But in accordance with section 37 of the Act of 18 March 2016 establishing the Federal Pension Service, it is the Service Management Committee that is required to give the Minister the budgetary impact of any proposed amendments to the legislation in force, not the other way around, as you seem to indicate in your question. That being said, I can communicate to you the budgetary impacts that have been taken into account in determining the overall performance, but which obviously remain forecasts. It's not an accounting, it's a budget. For 2017, the only expected revenue is 41.67 million and relates to the three-year transitional period for the acquisition of education for employees. There's no other position. In 2018, there is the minimum right for the second period of unemployment and for conventional pre-pensions: modification of the calculation of assimilation. This represents 5 million in 2018, 19 million in 2019 and 40 million in 2020. The abolition of the tantieth represents 150 million in 2019, 262 million in 2020, plus preferential schemes, 7.20 million in 2018, 16.36 million in 2019 and 55.56 million in 2020. For the introduction of the "penitibility" budget envelopes, this is a cost of 40.78 million. For 2020, this will amount to 70.67 million. There are also expenditure items such as the reduction of the solidarity contribution: 84 million in 2019 and 84 million in 2020. For the supplementary free pension for employees: 19 million in 2018, 37.5 million in 2019, 54.60 million in 2020. The three-year transitional period: 41 million in 2017, 36.18 million in 2018, 5.99 million in 2019 and -5.13 million in 2020. Finally, the abolition of the career unit limitation amounts to EUR 12.88 million in 2018, EUR 38.17 million in 2019 and EUR 63.30 million in 2020. It goes without saying that the impacts do not take into account the subsequent adaptations to the measures, in particular as a result of social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic551x.u60	Minister, thank you for these elements. I suppose you won't mind giving us a copy of your answer.
