ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u1	Colleagues, we welcome the Minister of Health, but also the representatives of the Planning Commission. [[the President and an official of the Public Health FPS, expert on the mathematical model]] , which published a study on the state of the labour force and future needs of health professionals. Questions were tabled by several parliamentarians and were attached to the exchange of views. Either we ask them to make it clear briefly, and then the minister and the Planning Commission will answer them, or we will immediately give the floor to them. Minister, have you already introduced answers to the questions in your speech, or would you like the discussion to take place in two stages?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u2	Madam President, I prefer to start with a short introduction. Ms Velkeniers will then be able to make the presentation in her capacity as President of the Planning Commission. As for Mr Miermans, he developed the mathematical method. Then we will deal with parliamentary matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u3	By having the numbers in mind when asking the questions, they can be adapted. So you'll answer the questions in a second step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u4	Madam Minister, I naturally agree with the procedure, but it is also intended that we should be able to ask questions to the chairman of the Planning Committee itself about the model they have used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u5	Mrs Van Peel, the questions can be asked after the information you are now receiving from the President. Questions relating to the mathematical model developed by Mr Miermans can be put to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u6	Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, as far as the planning of the medical offer is concerned, it might be good to give the retroacta a little bit. We know that the quota or planning of the medical supply is necessary to ensure the quality and affordability of care. The fact is that the lissage for the period 2008-2018 has resulted in a systematic transfer of qualified doctors to the French-speaking faculties during the previous years. Originally there would be a positive and a negative lissage possible, but that has only been a positive lissage in the facts. The quotas for the French Community until 2018 will therefore be exhausted. For a number of French-speaking students who PhD in 2017 and for all French-speaking students who PhD in 2018, there are, in other words, no training certificates left. In 2019 and 2020, there are no more certificates available than foreseen by the quota for those years. I have tried to find a solution for the students who have already started their studies. They had already started their studies at the time when I became Minister of Health. I have, of course, taken into account a number of things, including the fact that quotas on the part of the French Community must also be respected in the future and that a filter is called a competition, they themselves must be installed for medical students on the part of the French Community. On 9 July 2015, the French Community adopted a decree setting up a filter/contest, but at the end of the first year of initial training. That competition will now be able to be judged on its efficiency when the results are known. In order to compensate for the excess of graduates of French-speaking faculties, a negative lissage should also be set up by allowing fewer students to be promoted over a number of years than the French-language quota allows. Account should also be taken of the viability threshold for the French-speaking medical Faculties. It is believed to be 300 students per year for the joint French-speaking faculties of medicine. The provisions relating to quotas which I had included in the draft law on various provisions state that the current enforcement mechanism is that the recognition committees can only accept placements if the quotas are respected. Since the sixth state reform, the adoption of the training plans has been the responsibility of the Communities. This mechanism has never worked very well. That is why we want to introduce a realistic control and enforcement mechanism in federal jurisdiction, so that quotas are respected at all times at Community level and without affecting students. The proposed scheme is that the RIZIV number is not granted as a candidate if there is no quota attestation issued by the Public Health Office. The quotas for the year 2022 were set by the Planning Commission on 26 April 2016. At the plenary session on 26 April, the Planning Committee proposed the federal quota for doctors for 2022. This quota is 1 320, divided into 745 doctors for the Flemish Community and 575 doctors for the French Community. The numbers indicated should be included by an amendment to the Royal Decree of 12 June 2008 on the planning of the medical offer. Changes to this Royal Decree are discussed in the Council of Ministers. The following points are important. A first point is the methodology of the calculation and its scientific character. The mathematical model was unanimously accepted by the members of the Planning Committee. There was a separate vote on this. The quota was approved by ten of the 12 members who were entitled to vote. The alleged breach of the 60/40 ratio between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking people is to be qualified on the grounds of the further elements set out in this explanatory memorandum. For example, there is the number of French-speaking students of foreign origin who, after the training, no longer participate in the Belgian workforce. This number of French-speaking students is around 30% in the French-speaking part of the country. In the Dutch-speaking part of the country, the number is much lower. This has nothing to do with the quality of training, but with the French language, which is better known in a number of countries. Moreover, the elements that the Planning Committee included in its conclusion apply only for the year 2022, and certainly not ad vitam aeternam. With regard to the work and the figures underpinning the conclusions of the Planning Committee, we have found the Chairman of the Planning Committee, Professor Velkeniers, willing to come and explain this to this committee. Then there's the possibility to ask me questions. The compromise proposal that I delivered to the nuclear cabinet, which has already appeared in a number of newspapers, has not yet been decided. That must be a political decision, supported by the figures and by the objective conclusions reached by the Planning Committee in its independence. Mrs Velkeniers, I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Representatives, I will speak in Dutch. My slides are in French. I am perfectly bilingual and I am willing to answer your questions in your language. As the Minister said, the Planning Committee which I chair set the quotas for one year, namely 2022. I shall now show you the methodology that underpins quotas. Three slides have been drawn up in English and present Europe's advice to all its Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u9	Firstly, to exercise some control over the work force within the country. Ideally, the health care workforce will provide a supply tailored to demand. Of course, the supply is determined primarily by the people who work and the number of working hours, but also by the inflow and outflow. I'll get back to you on that. Demand is largely determined by demography, but also by morbidity, i.e. epidemiology, you all know that we are evolving towards chronic diseases, the way in which health care is structured and used and, of course, the financial resources available to public health. In a classic model a stock is displayed. This stock is best expressed in what we call full-time equivalents, because full-time equivalents correct overtime and part-time work. On the one hand, stock is determined by the influx of students following medical studies, but also by the professionals who are trained and immigrated outside our country to work here or who, after a temporary break, go back to work in the health sector. That could be a lot of doctors. On the other hand, the stock is largely determined by those who leave the health sector or simply no longer work within this country because they emigrate, or, of course, by the fact that they retire or die. You will see that, of course, we have also taken health demand into account in our projections. This is primarily determined by demographics... we are faced with an ageing population......................................................................................................................................................... Where do we want to go in the future? Better primary care, rationalisation in the hospital sector, what do we do with long-term care and, finally, the way these different models are used? This may be slightly different depending on the area where one lives and, of course, economic growth and the financial resources for health care. What has our committee done? The committee has, on the one hand, brought an enriched land register, which was also proposed here in this committee and which is based on visas, in other words professionals working in Belgium. Based on the linking of data, she has mapped out the activity of these professionals. That is the stock that is supposed to be held. On this basis, a mathematical model and scenario scenarios were developed to project the evolution of this work force into the future, over periods of five years for a period of twenty-five years. The quotas were determined from this point of view. The first work, the enriched land register, is no more than a data link in which, on the one hand, the land register is the starting point, the data of the recognised professionals. These were linked to data from the RIZIV on health insurance activity and data from the Datawarehouse labour market and social protection, giving an idea of the activity as an observer or in another statute, in which sector, in which district, whether one is employed in education, public services, the welfare sector or the industry. In this way an idea has been received of inactive doctors in Belgium and pensioners. This group accounts for about a quarter of registered doctors. The starting point is therefore a stock of doctors or a proportion of doctors active, their distribution according to their activity within the RIZIV or other institutions and their distribution according to age, sex, nationality, Belgian or non-Belgian nationality and the Community in which the doctor is active. The mathematical model is a stock-and-flow model, which I spoke about earlier. On the supply side, there is, on the one hand, the stock and, on the other hand, account is taken not only of the new influx into the profession I will immediately show you how we do so, but also of the outflow, which is the persons leaving the profession. The consumption demand of our population is also taken into account, taking into account demographics and epidemiology. The mathematical model can give the evolutions for the next twenty-five years, as well as the data that feed the model. My colleague, Mr Miermans, will be able to explain this further. It concerns the information received from the Communities. This is mainly about the number of students enrolled in the medical studies, of course also about the cadastre and the enriched cadastre, and the data of the FPS Economy, the office of the RIZIV Planning Office for consumption and the InterMutualist Agency. The complementary parameters included in the mathematical model are the number of entries in the first year with their success rate, then the degree of internship with a division into the chosen specialty, the degree of completion of the chosen specialty, the registration with the FPS Public Health, the distribution of the new influx by nationality, Belgian and non-Belgian nationals and by gender, the influx of foreign professionals trained abroad, of course also the survival, population structure and healthcare consumption. In a nutshell this is the mathematical model, which contains all the elements mentioned. On the basis of this mathematical model, numerical projections were made on the evolution of active doctors and their density towards the population, for 29 specialities. In the baseline scenario, medium-term trends are derived from historical trends over the last three years. This mathematical model takes into account the international mobility of Belgians and non-Belgen, both for the number of students enrolled in the course of medicine and at the start of the internship and at the start of their professional activity. The impact of non-Belgen, the number of non-Belgen who graduate with a Belgian degree and therefore fall within the quotas, is greater in French than in Dutch, where they account for about 30% of students. We also know from figures that 90% of non-Belgen with a Belgian diploma started specialising here in the French Community, versus 50% on the Dutch-speaking side. The non-Belgian doctors are less active than the Belgians, and this in both Communities. In other words, there is an important loss or deperition of doctors and specialists who were trained here but then emigrated. The baseline scenario did not take account of quota overruns, but rather of the real number of students and the diplomas awarded in each Community. However, account was taken of the fact that from 2015/2016 the number of tenders in the French Community is indeed respected in proportion to 605. In other words, the filter works to make projections for the future. In this basic scenario, therefore, this projection is made, based on the stock of active persons leaving the profession, those influxing the profession and also the influx from abroad. As I said, the consumption of health care is taken into account, as long as policies remain constant and our health care system remains unchanged. The ageing of the population is taken into account. You can see the figures for Brussels here. You can see the figures with the evolution between 2001 and 2013 for Flanders and the evolution in Wallonia between 2001 and 2013, with a clear ageing of the population. This ageing is also accompanied by an increase in consumption. This consumption will start to rise mainly from the age of 60, in such a way that someone aged between 70 and 79 consumes about four times more than the median of the population. On this basis 29 detailed reports were prepared and 2 synthesis reports were adopted in full and by the entire Planning Committee. Here you can see the projections as you can find them in the 29 reports that you can consult on the website of the FPS Public Health, with the projections on the Dutch-speaking side, on the one hand, and on the French-speaking side, on the other hand, and this for general medicine. You can see the evolution as shown in the total number of active doctors, or still in what we call weighted density. The weighted density takes into account evolution, i.e. demographics, and consumption within an ageing population. You will see the projection again with the number of active doctors within the RIZIV on the left and the density on the right per 10 000. You can also see the difference between evolution not only in active absolute number, but in density and weighted density that takes account of increased consumption. You see here on the Flemish side more or less a stabilisation until 2022 but then a decrease when it is expressed in weighted density. The same applies on the French-speaking side: the absolute number of doctors, density and weighted density are significantly reduced from 2022 onwards. The big problem is that, as shown here, for the entire Belgian cohort of general practitioners the older men are replaced by a younger cohort of women, so we had to partially correct after graduating in our projections. You can also see the proportion for general medicine on the Flemish side and on the French side. You will see this progressive increase and this will, of course, have an impact on the workforce. You will also see the evolution or proportion of doctors over 50 years of age who will not go down again until 2022. First of all, the dentists' working group fixed the quota federally. The objective was to ensure the stability of the work force, in each Community, by a consensus within the working group of dentists. As in the case of doctors, observed trends and projections, density and weighted density were taken into account. You can see here the data we have for general dentists, both on the Flemish and on the French-speaking side, with an evolution that is clearly worse, both in active numbers and in weighted density in Flanders compared to the French-speaking part of the country. On this basis, the quotas were set federally for 2021 as follows. I would remind you that dentists are trained for six years: general dentists, 160 for Belgium, 100 for Flanders and 60 for the French Community; parodontologists 11, with a distribution 6-5; orthodontists 17, with a distribution 10-7; which brings us to a total of 188, with 116 on the Dutch-speaking side and 72 on the French-speaking side. In the same way, all parameters in the model were validated by the doctors' working group. They were unanimously approved by the entire Planning Committee. In the same way, all reports were discussed and validated, with unanimity, throughout the Planning Committee. In this way specialities were identified that led to an excess or an increase, or possibly a deficit. This took place at six meetings scheduled between December and April of this year. All this is done on the basis of quotas, in which it is objective to ensure the stability of the work force, as we have done with the dentists, by working through a consensus within the working group of the doctors and the plenary. It takes into account the trends observed and projected, and the elements I have just mentioned to you. When a specialty has a projection that is stable over time, we have taken the average influx of the last three years. On the other hand, if an oversupply arises, the minimum inflow of the last three years was chosen. When a deficit is created, the maximum inflow of the last three years was taken. If people think this is a risk speciality, I would like to explain it to you at all costs. In this way the numbers were determined by the working group on the basis of their expertise and the knowledge of the domain. This led to subquotas per speciality and per Community. The federal quotas are, of course, the sum of these subquotas. In this way the next quota at federal level has been reached. For 2022 1 320 for Belgium, including 745 for Flanders and 575 for the French Community. This is the end of my presentation. These quotas were approved with a consensus among ten members of the Planning Committee against two votes against in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u10	Thank you, Professor Velkeniers. I believe that the President can now arrange the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u11	Colleagues, do you have any technical questions about the presentation, regardless of the interventions planned? [[Oui]] I note the names: Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Somers, Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Pas. In the ensuing exchanges, I will give the order of passage according to the questions submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u12	Thank you, Mrs Velkeniers, for your explanation. It will be no secret that I still have some technical questions, which, of course, have a political run-off. However, they are primarily technical, which is why I would like to put them to you. You may have answered a few questions, but you also raised as many. I'll go over them. For the sake of clarity, I would just like to highlight the uncertainties or the issues on which I wonder whether they can be looked at in any other way. There are, of course, other parts of your exercise that I understand very well and also think very well, for example the fact that you take the femininity with you. That exercise was not done in the past and is now rightly taken into account in the composition of quotas. My first comment may be political, or perhaps not. In the exercise you naturally assume a filter that works. This is of course not unimportant, because until now this has not been proven at all, both legally and technically. That is one thing, but perhaps that is more a question for the Minister. As far as the demand side is concerned, you have just said that the model also takes account of the use of care in the two Communities. I'd like a little more explanation on that. You did talk about demographics and so on, but I also heard the word 'care' a few times there. Does it actually happen on the basis of gross expenditure or on the basis of the methodology developed by the RIZIV in its reports in the context of regional disparities? Have any corrections been made to this? I'll explain to you why I'm asking that question. If you use the methodology of the RIZIV, I personally find that a problem. Our group has contested the standardisation methods used by RIZIV in the context of these reports from the outset, because parameters are used that differ from those used internationally. Internationally, things such as age and gender are usually looked at, but at the RIZIV there are also other parameters, such as the number of beneficiaries of an increased allowance, the OMNIO statute and so on. Since they also take indirect account of the number of unemployed, the number of people with disabilities and, moreover, they can also ask themselves big questions about the statute itself, it is always given to the people who are actually entitled to it. If this distortion was then used to incorporate this demand side into the model, it will be institutionalized and in any case there will be a result in which there will always be a higher need for doctors in French-speaking Belgium than when using the purely objective parameters. I'll explain further. If you have used the gross data, I also ask myself questions, as long as that word "care question" is in it... I think there are enough research and reports in the meantime; my colleague, Louis Ide, has written four books about it, but has not taken that into account. Because a different model is used on the Walloon side than on the Flemish side, there is much greater overconsumption. Now we can do two things. Either we accept that, also in this exercise, and institutionalize it further, or I hope that is filtered out and we are talking about where we want to go. If not, I have a problem with that number. That's my first question. I also have a question about the robustness of the parameters used. If I understood correctly, the parameters used in the model were determined on the basis of an extrapolation of historical data. Often these are figures from 2012 or an average of the last years available. I understand that we have to work with these figures, that it is sometimes impossible, but we are talking about quotas for 2022. In certain cases, the initial value of the parameters used is discussed over a period of 10 years and the time of the estimation. It is, of course, possible that there will be enormous changes in those years. Such a change can have a huge impact on the result of the model. There are statistical techniques, then, I look at Mr Miermans, who certainly knows it, to ensure that we first examine which parameters in the model contribute most to the end result, on which a kind of sensitivity analysis is carried out. In other words, the parameters vary within certain limits and they are seen as the result of these changes to the final result. If that is very large and there is uncertainty about the extrapolations, then there is a problem. This is a technical question and a technical exercise, but I would like to know whether and how it happened because the outcome of that exercise could have a very large impact on the final result. I come to the foreign doctors. The fact that this aspect is taken into account means that we are already taking more account of reality than we have done so far. I don't have a problem with that. But the percentages that come out of it are very different. You explained that, but I still have to ask whether it is not just a bit of wet fingering. Would it not be a better idea if the foreign doctors were to be taken into account, to just let them play the reality and see how many disappear every year and add that number next time? In my view, then, we will have the right number and there will be no discussion. Now I wonder how exactly you monitored this, how these differences of 10 % compared with 27 % can be justified. French is indeed spoken in France and Dutch in the Netherlands. We also have quite a few students coming our way. Besides, I don't think they all leave after studying in our nice country for so long. Can you explain this a little bit better? Is account also taken of the fact that French-speaking doctors appear to stop their professional activities earlier? Has anyone looked at why that is? I'm just suggesting a hypothesis. What if this is because there are too many doctors? I do not think that this aspect should be fully taken into account; then I would like to know whether the students who start today will still have to deal with it within 40 or 50 years. I hope that the answer is no, and I hope that we will finally resolve this problem. It is not a wrong question to ask them, because they are all parameters that are in your model. For the future, other issues than demographics have also been taken into account, for example the re-evaluation of the Royal Decree No. 78, with the fact that the nurse is going to be allowed to give vaccines in the future and so on? Such matters could also be included in the criteria to calculate how many doctors we need later. Finally, on the outcome of the model. The model gives some indications of the need for doctors in 2022. It's just that year that's been investigated. The final emergency has, of course, been decided by the Planning Committee. In other words, does this mean that this is partly the result of an expert opinion? You could have had other outcomes with this mathematical model. So choices have been made by the committee that have influenced this result. It's not just choices that have been made. There has also been a clear difference in the vote. Not clear enough for me, I'm honest with you, but that's for politics. There's a clear difference. Decisions have therefore been taken which have gone too far or are not correct for some. Can you go a little further on the figures, which did not come through the mathematical model but through the decision of the Planning Committee? In other words, I would like to have some explanation as to why there was a unanimous vote on the model itself and not on the result anymore. I will leave it at that for the time being; my other questions are too political to ask them here now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u13	Madam President, I have a number of questions for a detailed explanation, more specifically with regard to subquotas, which falls within the competence of the Communities. How has the Planning Committee dealt with quotas for disciplines for which there are too few caregivers, e.g. geriatrics, psychiatrists or pediatricians? Have these deficits, which are in some areas, also had an impact on the overall quotas set by the Planning Committee? Then there is the problem of the national municipalities, where there are no more general practitioners. We know, I have already said, that the subquotas are the competence of the Communities, but have they been taken into account? The Communities have also become responsible for primary health care, prevention and vaccination. This means that they are drawing up their own policies more and more, with consequences for the number of doctors needed. Was this taken into account in any way? Finally, on the Flemish side people hear that doctors often stop because the workload is very high and is no longer sustainable. Has the workload been taken into account to some extent in determining quotas? Are there differences here between Flanders and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u14	Madam President, my questions are largely about the group of dentists that I have been following for a long time. I know that we have had discussions about, among other things, the level of activity. I wonder if I did not find it in the presentation.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have the impression that there is less attention to the exact methodology for the dentists. My second question concerns the number of dentists with a foreign diploma, also an important problem or at least an important challenge. We have also had discussions on this point. It is clear from the figures I received from the Minister that many foreign dentists are coming to settle here. In what way has that been taken into account this time? At that time the Minister replied that it was not really appropriate to take that into account, because the reverse movement also often occurs. That was said in practice with the doctors, which I doubt. However, I assume that exercise has brought clarity to the matter. So I would like to have the technical explanation on this too. The same question was asked about the doctors. I didn't hear an answer to that either. How will the forthcoming political measures be taken into account, such as accompanying practical development measures? I am thinking, for example, of a measure similar to the Impulseo measure, which exists for general practitioners. I assume that as much action as possible will also be developed for the dentists. Has that been taken into account in any way? The same applies to an accompanying profession which arrives for the dentists and whose training has been approved. I have another technical question about the number of inactive dentists. Their number has been estimated at just over 220 out of 9 000 dentists. To what extent is that figure correct? What number have your calculations led to? The question about the language test is, I presume, a political question. I'd like to keep them in the fridge until soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u15	Mrs Velkeniers, since I am the fourth speaker, I have, of course, been able to remove many technical questions from my list. I will not repeat myself, except for a few things that I think are very important. Do you already consider in your study that the filter at the end of the first year of basic training would be working and paying off this year? That has not been the case for 19 years. There are many studies that show that oversupply of doctors leads to medical overconsumption. To what extent has this overconsumption been taken into account in the models you use? You say that there were ten votes in favour and two votes against on the results in plenary. Can we know the motivation of the opponents? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u16	Madam President, there are many questions. I will give the floor to Mr Miermans for the technical models. There was also a question about subquotas. Subquotas do not fall within the competence of the Planning Committee. One has to work bottom-up in order to achieve an acceptable federal quota. We have, of course, taken this into account, and I have explained this in the methodology, namely that there is a greater need for certain specialists, and that, on the other hand, other specialities come into excess on the market, which do not have a marketing area. Therefore, corrections were made in the projections. If the projections were bad for the future, with a clear reduction, the subquotas for that specialism were increased by the maximum of the influx of the last three years. The baseline is 2012, but the projections took into account the trends observed over the past three years. With regard to the level of activity and how it is determined, I shall give the floor to my colleague, Mr Miermans, to the data of the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u17	With my explanation I answer the question how the RIZIV data help to project consumption. To this end, we use the raw, unadjusted performance data per specialism of the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u18	Are you referring to today's overconsumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u19	I am talking about the situation of 2012. The model has been in existence for ten years and was developed by the KUL and the UCL in a previous project, after which we simply built on it. In itself, it is a fairly simple stock-and-flow model. At present we do not have the opportunity to measure the sensitivity of the parameters, but we have already received comments to adjust our results. In this way, we can make five projections and assess each time what the effect of one of the quotas is on the future evolution. This possibility will be taken into account in the development of alternative scenarios. At the moment we are still starting from the baseline scenario and in the coming year we will develop alternative scenarios in the working group, where we will test different levels of quotas and study their effects. A question was asked about the failure of doctors who stop their activities. That is contained in the model. By the way, that's how we modulate retirement. No age limit is included, but we are looking at the historical levels of participation for each age segment. For example, if we see that there is a low participation in the 50 to 55-year segment, it is projected into the future. A question was asked about the dentists. In general, we use the same methodology for dentists as for doctors. Those procedures are very similar. Where necessary, they are modified, but in fact we use the same model and the same parameters. In defining the baseline scenario, the Committee also made choices. Buttons had to be cut, for example about what reference period we would use and whether we would use three or four or five years to calculate averages that we would like to apply in our projections. The committee must make a choice, because that is not in the hands of the analyst. We had made a proposal based on the historically observed success rate, for example. For this purpose, we based ourselves on data from the Communities. They broke up a little bit, but the committee decided to use a success rate of 0.85 for both Communities. So the same success rate was used for everyone. Of course, this choice has an impact on the projections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u20	I'd like to add to that. Mrs. Van Peel asked how we deal with foreign students. The foreign students were charged three times. First of all, it was examined how many foreign students start studies in medicine or dentistry. Secondly, it looked at the number of foreign students entering specialization, for all different specializations. Thirdly, it was examined how many foreign students become active and receive a refund from the RIZIV for post-graduate performances. In other words, one looked at who is doing an activity here, as a specialist or as a doctor. So these foreign students are taken at three times. For the dentists the number of 2012 has been taken. However, account has also been taken of the number of approvals that have been granted until the end of 2015. That answer was for Mrs Van Camp. So it was not only the number of foreign dentists that were active here in 2012 that were taken into account, but also the recognition of foreign dentists until the end of 2015 in order to achieve better, more representative figures. Mrs Pas, your question was not of a technical nature, but of a political nature. The methodology was voted unanimously. That did happen unanimously. Ten members voted in favour and two against in the final conclusions. The voters who voted against said that they should be able to train more general practitioners, for which there was no unanimity in committee. Mrs Van Peel, you say that RIZIV is working with 2012 figures. One can say a lot of that, but the RIZIV can only process the figures it has. A latency period must always be taken into account. In this respect, progress has been made in recent years through, among other things, sophisticated software, but the formatting of annual reports always takes a while. Indeed, the 2012 figures have been used. For a number of cases, the changes have already been taken into account between 2012 and 2015, e.g. the average of the last three years or the number of recognized dentists of foreign origin. Of course, anything can be called into question. You are questioning the methodology of the RIZIV. Luckily it wasn't used. You are questioning the figures, because they are not recent enough. One can only work with the figures one has. Any system can always be improved. I agree with you on that point. However, we do not have any references to the model or method of planning. It's a unique system that doesn't exist anywhere else. Everywhere we go, we see how things are going, with all the consequences of this: deficits here, surpluses there and so on. We are the only country that takes responsibility for not developing a plethora again. In the year I started my studies, in 1980, there was a huge plethora of general practitioners. Then it was really not recommended to study medicine. It wasn't until after that that the entrance exam came. Mrs. Fonck, you'll have plenty of time to comment. I can hear you echoing. You'll have all the time you need. I'm available until morning. I finish, Madam President, because Mrs. Fonck is very...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u21	I propose to take a second turn by integrating your technical questions, if any, into your speeches, if there is any more, because we end up at the limit, at the border. I give the floor according to the order of business. Secondly, the other members who wish to do so will, of course, be able to join in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answers that have already been given. I will not ask the questions as tabled anymore, because we have already passed on the explanations we have just received. I think there's one big question. I haven't been convinced by the answers I've just heard. It is a model which, as Mr Miermans said, could perhaps get somewhere with a little more weight. However, as has happened today, I am sorry, but this is based on a filter that has not yet been proven to stand and work legally. Of course, you have to work it out on the basis of something, but at least I would not want to approve it today or institutionalize it in any way. The worst thing, in fact, is that on the demand side, without any correction, a question of concern has been taken into account, and we know that there is work to be done. That also has to do with a bunch of doctors looking for a job today. Secondly, it is problematic that the subquotas are then the competence of the Communities. A model was explained here, where we go back three years and then see what the average was. This is so high with some subquotas and certainly on the Walloon side of the language border that even if we go back three years and take the minimum, I think we get a distorted view of this. I'm sticking with it. I have questions about these numbers. I am sure that I will continue to ask very many questions about the fact that we are moving away from a 60/40 distribution, taking into account what I have just said. I like the phrase in the Bible about showing the other cheek very much, but if one has already been beaten black and blue on both sides, it stops somewhere. That is, of course, the political question. I find this unacceptable. Madam Secretary, what will you do with this exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u23	Madam Minister, I can fully endorse the previous speaker. The issue, as you yourself have indicated, is that there must be a political decision. You have heard the response of the Syndicate of Flemish General Doctors to the opinion of the Planning Committee. The entrance exam, on the Flemish side, has been there since 1997. In 1996, when you graduated, that decision was made. The fact is that on the Flemish side they have always been the good student who applied it and that as a result many Flemish students have not even been able to start the study. There has never been a solution for them. Now there is a French-speaking problem, which has existed for years, which threatens to find a typical Belgian solution. It is not the first time that quotas have been increased, but it is the first time that the 60/40 ratio has been called into question. What will you do? Will you follow the Planning Committee and thus reward the mispolicy on the French-speaking side? That is what happens in practice when this is approved. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u24	Colleagues, if you will, I will ask my question because unfortunately I will have to leave you, having to go to the hospital myself. Mrs. Van Camp will replace me at 3.45 p.m. for further work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u25	Minister, things have obviously changed since my question of May 13, 2016. I was interested in the work and how to build criteria to assess the changing needs of the population in the future. Emphasis is placed on the dimensions of "development of chronic diseases" and "ageing" thus changing the needs of the population. The projections, evaluations, and estimates you make of the supply take into account the current labour force and the labour force in preparation at the level of studies. My question was about the conclusion of this and I am astonished. From the moment when, for the whole territory, needs are identified which take into account the evolution of the health of a population, its age, pathologies, etc. and from the same time that the labour force is assessed in the same way and with the same criteria, the number of persons entering and leaving the profession, taking into account whether or not foreign students and doctors are present, on the basis of these objective criteria, I would like to say that we do not care that 50 more are required within ten years in Brussels, Flanders or the French Community. In fact, the goal is to meet the care needs of the population. The criteria may be called into question, but the ones I was able to get to know seemed relevant to me. Therefore, if the assessment is made on this type of criteria, I hope that these criteria and the objectivation of the data will be followed in practice – I come to the political dimension – and that we will not be burdened with distributions that are not based on anything objectivable in how to assess the forces on the ground and the intensity or density of the needs. How will this data be used politically? Will the emphasis be on an objectivation or will we be allowed to embark again on political or ideological beliefs or positions? I'm just going to add a slightly more specific request for subquotas, which are not within your jurisdiction. You have an overall figure, which is the sum of the figures for each of the categories. You say that with the Communities, you assessed the forces and needs in these subquotas. Does this mean that there has been prior evaluation work by representatives of the Communities? Or is that for everything, that is to say, by looking at what is happening on the ground within the geriatric group, within the paediatric group, within the generalist group, etc. and population development? I assume that finer needs assessment criteria will be used, because for example, the chronic side does not apply to paediatrics, in any case not in the same way. I assume there has been a cross-over with other types of criteria to assess the need. Or, then, did you rely solely on the evolution of the population of doctors, and therefore of the labour force?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u26	Minister, as I tabled my three questions a while ago, I will try to be as synthetic as possible and not repeat what has been said so far. In any case, I would like to thank you and the Planning Commission for this study, which, as you have just said, Mrs Gerkens, seems to me to be objective. That seems essential to me. Our common goal is to ensure that everyone in this country, from North to South, can benefit from quality health care in the best possible conditions. This is not the first time we've dealt with this issue here. It turns out that the figures presented are interesting, especially since, whatever it is said, the objective criteria seem to me to be taken into account. I have heard Mrs Van Peel contest certain figures. In my view, considering that one third of the general practitioners are under forty-five years old and that more than half of the Francophone general practitioners have more than fifty-five is an objective fact. There is also an improvement in the balance between work and private life. Similarly, the profession is feminizing. However, there are still challenges in some parts of the country in achieving the goal of quality health care. If we refer to this objective study, we find that there will be an increase of several units, both in Flanders and in the French Community. Having said that, now that we have serious and indisputable figures, Madam Minister, a royal order must be made. Will you rely on all the conclusions of the report to transpose them into the said order? That would seem to me to be the logical continuation of this work. I'd like you to confirm that, so we can see what direction we're going to take in the coming weeks. I would then like to ask you a question of understanding, minister. In your introduction, you talked about the INAMI number, a negative smoothing and a viability threshold. Could you explain that again? How do you intend to establish this threshold? Furthermore, you spoke about the need to evaluate the filter set up by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation at the end of the first year of study. We already have criteria in this regard. Has this assessment taken place? Next, what is the status of the work of the intercabinets group "planning" - federal and federated entities? When did he meet for the first time? As regards the assessment of the filter set up by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, do you already have an opinion on the effectiveness of this measure? On the basis of the elements available to you, can you confirm that this filter is effective? On the other hand, the impact of foreign doctors is greater on the French side. How has this parameter been taken into account in the definition of quotas? I think you explained it, but I'm not sure I fully understood you. Finally, we know that many INAMI numbers are no longer used by inactive or part-time physicians. Is this factor taken into account in the planning system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u27	Madam President, I would first like to welcome the important work done by the Planning Commission. It was essential, as it allows real practice to be taken into account. Today, it must be noted that the actual workload of a doctor ten or twenty years ago is now carried out by 1.5 full-time equivalents. This highlights actual work and actual practice. I would point out to some colleagues that the phenomenon is not only related to the feminization of the profession, because there is also a change in practices among male doctors. You also take into account needs, including the evolution of acute care to much more chronic care. You take into account the age pyramid and it is true that these figures are particularly challenging since the succession is insufficiently ensured, especially among general practitioners. You also mentioned the non-Belgian European doctors who, under the free movement of diplomas, come to our home. Is it worth recalling that we have more than 500 non-Belgian European doctors who were able to benefit from an INAMI number in 2015? It is essentially French in view of the top 5 nationalities. On the other hand, two elements seem interesting to me. However, this has not been taken into account. This is reality depending on the territory. I am not talking about the regions here, but rather about shortages. Provincial governors have already had to requisition, on several occasions general practitioners for guards, certainly more in rural and semi-rural areas. But it also exists in cities, proof that it is not just a rural reality. It would not be uninteresting to look at this subject, if only on the basis of the reality of the guards. Indeed, one of the greatest difficulties is probably the exercise of guards. I am particularly interested in general medicine here. It's a real problem. A second point would be interesting to consider, unless I am mistaken and in this case, do not hesitate to correct me: as much as we take into account the non-Belgian European doctors who come to our home, I think that we do not pay sufficient attention to the brain drain and the flight of doctors to other European countries. I am talking not only about basic and clinical research, but also about practice. You will tell me that it is taken into account through the actual workload, since there is a weighting if they still have an INAMI number. If they do not practice in Belgium, the actual burden of physician involvement necessarily decreases. That is true, but at the same time, we are not yet measuring the effects of a clear sign: it is a movement of flight from our Belgian doctors, which has been detectable for about ten years, and which is rather increasing. I am not talking about non-Belgian Europeans coming to our home. We have a flight from Belgian doctors to other countries. This aspect of things is not negligible. If the situation persists in this direction, the trend is likely to be increasing. If I want to pay tribute to your work, it is not only because it is in line with the conclusions of previous studies. I am thinking, for example, of the study of Professor Deliège, of the Catholic University of Leuven. Other preliminary studies have been carried out, taking into account, inter alia, inputs and outputs in the evolution of the age pyramid. But, Madam President, since we are in a political debate, I still regret that some people are challenging the conclusions of this analysis, because it is not in line with their ideological position. I am thinking in particular of the reactions I have just heard in the head of the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang. I would like to touch on a second point concerning everything that has been said, including by you, Madam Minister. At first, some echoed it, you alluded to the selection, the filter, the competition on the side of each Community. Sometimes it is necessary to recall certain things. I am wrong about what some colleagues claim is that this is not working and that it is not legally valid. Personally, I repeat that I have always been in favour of organising an entry examination at the beginning of the year and allowing those who do not succeed to have a training and an ad hoc year to be able to represent themselves the following year. Having said that, I would refer you to the Constitutional Court, which has been more clear on the selection. Just go and see what happens in the medical schools where this selection is made, on the francophone side on the basis of a quota. Is it worth recalling that on the Dutch-speaking side, an entry examination is organised but without any quota? No number is fixed. And the fact is – you have to call a cat a cat – that you also see an overnumber on the Dutch-speaking side, which I don't do a state affair, as you can do on your side on every possible and imaginable occasion. But I was still more than questioned by your introduction, which was very political, if not exclusively political. You didn't say what you're going to do with the cadastre. Of course, that's what we're all interested in. Here you have to make a very clear commitment on the substance and on the date. On the substance, respecting this work, which is objective; on the date also because we are talking about 2022, which is not so far since it concerns those who enter in September 2016. If we want every community to be able to organize – it's good management – if we want the students – and I call on my colleagues to think about the students and their families – who want to engage in medical studies, organize themselves, now we have to make a decision. It is, of course, during this period, in June or early July, that we must be able to make it clear to them. I would have exactly the same reasoning about universities. If we want universities to organize themselves properly, they need to know for the coming year what quota they will have to base themselves on in order to organize and plan things. We can't wait any longer. That's what I'm talking about. We cannot afford to wait until the end of August, September – I have even heard some say that nothing would be decided until October – to give the 2022 exit quotas, which concern students starting the academic year 2016-2017 which, after their six years of medicine, will be released in July 2022. It is a matter of respect for students and their families, who must make the decision to start or not, medicine, but also respect for universities. You mentioned, Madam Minister, the figure of 300 students per year for all the faculties of French medicine. You talked about 300 students a year, saying you'll take into account this viability threshold to determine the negative smoothing. I translate: are you announcing here that you are going to do a smoothing for the coming years, that you will reduce to 300 students per year for the faculties of French medicine, instead of the 575 advised by the Planning Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u29	You talked about a viability threshold of 300 students a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u31	You'll have an opportunity to explain. You reduce this figure by 575, which was calculated and projected as a result of the work done by UCL with Professor Deliège. I believe that its seriousness and rigour are absolutely not to be called into question. Her expertise is recognized and she has already done a long work on the subject. Lowering by 150 students per year compared to the quota set, this amounts in practice to reducing the renewal of outgoing doctors. We'd have a renewal that would only reach 43%. This is obviously dramatically low, and this is all the more so as the age pyramid is much more worrying in Wallonia and Brussels than in Flanders. I have had the opportunity to analyse all the documents of the Planning Commission. This is very clear. This was an amputation hypothesis of 150 students. If we start to evoke a threshold of viability of 300, we are no longer in an amputation of 150 but 275! Thus, the figure of 575 on the basis of the Planning Commission is reduced by 50 per cent, which means that only about 25 to 30 per cent of outgoing doctors would be replaced for the years 2021 to 2026. Madam Minister, I really want to sound the alarm. I will never repeat it enough, but the stakes are, first and foremost, patients and health needs. While I agree with the fact that there is a shift from acute care to chronic care, not least as a result of aging, but also as a result of the ever-increasing incidence of chronic diseases, I maintain that we are moving towards a truly catastrophic situation. If that's not the analysis, I'm curious to hear you. With regard to the threshold for the viability of Francophone universities of 300 students a year, I inquired between now and just now. I quickly made some contacts. It is a figure which you have unilaterally established and which has not been agreed in any way. I do not know how to define a threshold for the viability of universities without even having come into contact with these Francophone universities. I therefore dare to hope, if you rebut this, that this would be just a small incidental comment, but I fear, because of the way in which you presented it at the very beginning of the work, that this is indeed a political position. I can only pull the alarm bell on the basis of the projection made by the academics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u32	Madam Minister, Madam President, the advantage of sitting here for a few years is that I now have some déjà vu here. I had the same discussion about the kinesis here a few years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u33	I liked it more when I was sitting on your couch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u34	We had the same discussion there and as Flemish parties for years we thought it was so unfair that after the studies we had to take another test to get a RIZIV number, so that people consciously chose a different orientation after graduation several years after graduation. Until the first year there was a surplus on the French-speaking side and the scheme could not continue. All kinds of reasons were good then to stop doing so. I hear some of the same elements here. A lot was said here. I am actually really worried, especially after the intervention of the French-speaking fellow Members. After all, I know that certain parties have health and education in their powers. I really wonder whether there is the will and intention to make the filter work effectively and to ensure that it will be applied effectively. I'm really worried, Madam Secretary. I know that you have always followed a very strict line and have said that the filter should be applied. We're assuming that, too. I am actually shocked to hear from some Members here today, who sometimes talk a lot more about foreign affairs and regional distribution than about the real problem we are dealing with today. What is it about, fellow Members? Firstly, it concerns the determination of quotas for 2022, in the proposal of the Planning Committee 745 and 575. Perfectly that deviates from the past. We have a tradition of following the Planning Committee. Madam Secretary, are you planning to do this? When is the decision taken? I can follow Mr Fonck's reasoning. As a mother of children studying, I would not like my children to start university education, not knowing whether there will be quota attestations at graduation. The impact of 2022 has an effective impact on students starting in the academic year 2016-2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u35	I have to say, Mr Fonck, that I also care for the students, but the situation is, of course, the result of a surplus that you yourself have created for years. I do not hear much about this in today's debate. Madam Secretary, when will the decision be made? In addition to the transfers, there are of course also shortages, on the Flemish side. Very little has been said about this. We have the 2012 figures. They're what they are, but they've been extrapolated to 2020. On the Flemish side we are talking about a deficit of 390, with a total of 1 355 doctors on the French-speaking side. I know that it is your intention to reach a final solution, Madam Secretary. I understand that the aim is to ensure that the quota coincides fully with the quota attestations from 2022 onwards, which means that it stops and that we have to have a definitive solution until 2021. How will you solve that on the French side? You indicated in your introduction that it will be difficult in 2017 and already in 2018. How will you solve the matter? Will you work with a positive lissage, then apply the negative lissage from 2022? How will you do that in concrete terms? How will you do on the Flemish side? Will you increase quotas there for a certain period because there are deficits there? These are the important questions that need to be asked in the short term, Madam Minister. When will there be a final decision on transfers and deficits? When will there be legal certainty for the quota 2022? If we do not have enough vision of the filter today and have insufficient guarantees on the filter, then we must also adjust the solution on the basis of whether or not we achieve that filter, because if we do not, it will prevent a definitive solution forever. I ask for respect for a final solution and I hope that everyone, including the Members of the European Communities, will assume their responsibilities. I have heard far too little of that in the debate today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u36	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for being able to make this presentation. My question echoed everything you said from the very objective analysis that was conducted. My question was about the 60/40 allocation key and whether it was really about changing it. I have received the answer in planning an objectivable analysis that will give us the opportunity to better define how doctors should be distributed across the Regions. The weight of age is striking. The analysis is precise: we are really aware of the serious shortage of doctors in some parts of our country. My question is with my colleagues. How will you definitively define these quotas? Joining Mrs Fonck's question, how are you going to define the cadastre so much it is true that every year we confront the revolt of medical students who wonder in which direction they should move, what their future will be and whether they will benefit from an INAMI number? I think the second stage is crucial to be defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u37	Minister, in turn, to thank you and the Planning Commission for the work they have done. It is always said that several solid foundations are needed before decisions are made. Here we have an analysis which has been carried out on the basis of scientific criteria. I would like to remind you that, in a committee like ours, before working on a motion for a resolution or a bill, we are always trying to have scientific support to support our proposals. Of course, we are working on a scientific model. We can wonder if it's perfect, and it's probably not. Values or data dating back to 2012 were discussed. It is true that we could do better, but we have no problem, to my knowledge, in refining it. In any case, it was necessary to analyze real data and start with something. This is therefore a deliberate choice. So far, he's not critical. So that's my first question. Is this basic model expected to become a dynamic model that can be reused every year? I would like to return to the views of the Planning Commission. What values the work done is that the model has been unanimously validated. To my knowledge, to observe that the north and the south agree on a model that must, in the long run, take a position for the whole country, it is not frequent and it deserves to be noted. As for the new allocation, which was voted on by ten votes to twelve, this is also a result which has no equivocal effect. So I think we can really welcome this approach. All the more so since, when I was speaking with ten votes in favour and two against, it automatically means that there are both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people who gave positive opinions on how the work was carried out under these new quotas. Without wanting to be too long, on the contrary, because I think that many things have been said and many things are likely to be discussed, although at some point we have to move forward. I know it is customary - in any case if my information is good compared to the previous Minister of Health - that when the Planning Commission gives advice or makes recommendations, as a general rule, the Minister follows these recommendations. So my question is very simple: Minister, do you intend to follow the recommendations made by the Planning Commission? A final element has been raised by several people. We talked about quotas for 2022. What says quotas for 2022, says decisions to be taken here in 2016. To the best of my knowledge, this could be done by amending the deliberate royal decree of 12 June 2008. Is that something, minister, that you are considering moving forward quickly, or are you planning to work differently? So my question is simple. From the moment we agree that we have scientific and precise work, what is the continuation of the operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u38	I listened with great attention to Dr Velkenier's explanation and the well-structured and structured presentation, with the necessary drive. The Planning Committee did what it had to do. Of course, there is always a difference of opinion on a methodology. Our Planning Committee must also do so with much less money than, for example, in the Netherlands. The methodology improves over the years, but everything can do better. The chronic care element may still be underexposed and could be better taken into account in the future and incorporated into the methodology. I agree with the questions put by many of my fellow Members. Madam Secretary, will you follow the opinion of the Planning Committee? I would add the question as to whether all government partners are on the same page, because I do have questions. Finally, I note something in the margins of our discussion and perhaps the many specialists at the table can give me an answer. I notice that more doctors are needed in French-speaking Belgium than in Dutch-speaking Belgium to do the same work. Does that have to do with a cultural difference or with the training? Those differences are weird. I am not asking that question politically, because there is no political undertones in it with me, but it is bizarre. Measuring is knowing, so it intrigues me how that is happening and how we can take that aspect with us in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u39	Perhaps my technical questions were not entirely clear, but at least I did not get an answer to them. So I'm going to reset them. I've been asking about numbers. A certain level of activity is always taken into account. You referred to the doctor's model. I was just wondering what percentage of the professional activity is for the dentists. As far as I know, that was always 0.65 %. Was this figure retained or adjusted, taking into account the demographic evolution of the profession and the number of inactive dentists? I would have liked to have specific figures on this. What is the ratio to the number of active dentists? So much for the technical question to which I have not received an answer. I come to the political question, which nevertheless contains an important angel. My question about dentists with a foreign diploma has not been answered either. I would have liked to have received the concrete figures. How many are there now and is that in proportion to the outflow, to which many fellow Members have already referred? I don't think so. If this suspicion is confirmed, how will it be taken into account? There is a political question to which I would have liked to have had an answer. Why are we talking about quotas for our own students, while there is an unbridled influx of dentists with a foreign diploma? How can we justify this to our own students? That question has already been asked, and I believe that it should be answered on the basis of the figures. The same applies to the language test. In view of the large number of dentists with a foreign diploma who practice the profession here, I would like to know whether you have the same quality requirements as the healthcare providers we allow to enter the profession. Is there any solution to the language requirements? I think that is a very important point, especially in the profession of dentist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u40	Mrs Van Peel, you are apparently the only one not convinced of the model. However, your representatives in the IKWS found the model interesting and they only had questions about the sensitivity of the variables. Mr Miermans has said that sensitivity has been taken into account, but can always be refined. If there are other elements emerging in the future, this sensitivity can also be taken into account. As far as the filter is concerned, if I read the decree correctly, Minister Marcourt proposed a numerus fixus at the end of the 1st bach. This means that students who pass the exam and pass their exams of 1st bach, in first or second, can pass to the second year. That number is fixed by him. There's something else there, too. You said we'd know in mid-June. It is now clear from the reading of the decree that it is only after the second one that the extent to which that filter has worked will be demonstrated. The Planning Committee has already taken account of the numerus fixus, assuming that the filter will be carried out effectively and will work as stated in the decree, otherwise we cannot begin to do so. Everything is worked out on the assumption that that filter will work. You are always in favour of scientific support. Doctors are looking for jobs. Do you have any more information about that? The information we have is not of that nature. Maybe that's not always in the city or the church they dream of working there, but there's no shortage of places yet. Rather, there is a shortage in some specialities of doctors who can carry out the specialty. So I'd like to hear from you what your source is. Then I'll come to the 60/40 distribution, which you're sticking to. That was a political choice that was made at the time. In the meantime, we have evolved, we are not dinosaurs, we have tried to evolve from a political way of determining distribution to a scientifically based way. You understand, Mrs Dedry, that was precisely the question that was put to the Planning Committee, in particular to design a way, to try to objectively identify the needs of care in our country and to try to justify it by means of a scientific methodology. Variables are always choices. So is the weight given to those variables. That's right. It has been said several times, however, by the President and Mr Miermans: these variables can be fine tuned. There may also be variables in the future, why not? If we all go to a 34-hour week in this country, it will certainly also affect doctors' quotas. In any case, it is better than to impose a blind method of quotas or never to follow quotas, whatever happened. The responsibility for the operation of the filter lies, of course, with the Communities and with Mrs Crevits and Mr Marcort respectively. Mrs Pas, in relation to the political decision, there is the objectively scientifically substantiated proposal of the Planning Committee. What will ultimately come from the Council of Ministers is a political decision. The Council of Ministers can largely follow or modify it. That is the political decision, the consensus that should come from the Council of Ministers. The fact that this is not so easy proves that my proposal, in which I largely follow the proposal of the Planning Committee, but have also added a supplementary federal key, has been on the table of the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers for three or four weeks. There's no white smoke yet, to put it in Vatican terms. The Planning Committee is an independent body. It shall deliver opinions on the basis of scientific and/or objective methods. It is up to the Council of Ministers to follow all or part of the opinion or not at all. That is the political responsibility. You don't have to worry about that, but you do. In any case, as far as the number of trained people is concerned, it is now well established how many people are involved. The more accurate method of calculation, the mathematical model, has indeed shown that too many French-speaking doctors are still being trained, but it has also been seen that not enough Flemish dentists are being trained. This is all due to the fact that people used to base themselves on the figures that came from the then Planning Committee and which were less precise. So now there will be the opportunity, Mrs Muylle has referred to it to do a positive lissage for the doctors in Flanders in the future. It goes without saying that quotas for dentists can also be increased. However, there will also be a negative lissage because the amount has to be corrected. Mrs van Peel, I do not know how many questions you have asked here and in plenary, but I have always said this: the amount will have to be corrected. I'll make no mistake about that. As usual, Ms. Gerkens indicated that it was necessary to know the needs of the population in terms of doctors, specialists, dentists. This is what the Planning Commission has attempted to calculate. In addition, if the representatives of the Communities participate in each meeting of the Planning Commission, they shall not participate in the votes. They do not have a decisive vote. They are there as observers, they can participate in the talks and are always represented, but they do not have a decisive vote. Mrs Gerkens asked if there was any field knowledge. The purpose of the composition of the Planning Committee is to introduce this field knowledge as well. Mrs Fonck, for the activity threshold, I don't know your source, but I'm going to give you mine. Mr. Boniver, a professor at the University of Liège, is also the president of the Conseil supérieur de la Santé, who mentioned the figure of 300 as a threshold of dangerous activity for French-speaking universities. For my part, I observe that it rises to 575 Francophones. We can also discuss the length of the smoothing. In any case, you see that we are going to reach a much higher number of students than the activity threshold. There's nothing to be afraid of. We have, of course, spoken with the deans, because it is important that they ensure that the academic training of doctors and dentists continues. With regard to foreigners, several speakers, including Mr Delizée, did not understand me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u41	Mr. Delizee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u42	Excuse me, Mr. Frédéric. You'll tell him he's still in my mind! [[Laughs]] Previously, he was still here. Excuse me! We have taken into account the number of foreign students in three stages: at the beginning of their studies, when they start specialisations and finally when they start working. We note that the number of students who are members of the European Union is greater than the number who come from outside it. We have also established the difference in this matter. Also for dentists we have taken not only the number of graduates in 2012, but also the number of recognitions of foreign dentists until the end of 2015. Mr Miermans says that he believed that today was only about medicine. Perhaps you should ask him a written question, Mrs Van Camp, about the number of dentists, because he does not have those figures on him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u43	I don't have them with me. They are available on our website. All the figures for the baseline scenario dynamometers are made public on our website, with a very detailed report per medical specialist and per dental specialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u44	I suggest you look at that first and then ask your questions in writing. Then I'll fill out the numbers. Since Mr Miermans does not have them, you cannot have them now. Mrs Fonck, as you know, the issue of the locoregional shortage now falls within the competence of the Communities which have decided to reactivate Impulseo, which I think is a good thing. It is true that after their training, doctors are free to choose where they want to settle. They can decide in which hospital or hospitals they will practice medicine, in which commune or city. The doctor is free to choose his place of residence. We don't have a medical establishment law, and I don't think that would be a good idea either. Other impulses could be given, however, so that more general practitioners would be provided in rural areas. We discussed this challenge here when it was still a federal matter, with Impulseo I, II and III. I understand that Walloon Minister Prévot has already taken initiatives on this matter. As for what you call "brain drain." It's exactly a title of a movie. We have taken both aspects into account. On the one hand, Belgian doctors are going to work abroad. It's not always in France, some go to Africa, for example. On the other hand, we have taken into account the foreigners who work here. We also know that some Luxembourgers do not start their studies here, because their faculty organizes only the first year. From the second year, until the end of studies and specializations, they are included in our figures. In addition, there are Belgian trainees in Luxembourg hospitals. I have already received the competent Minister of Luxembourg. It's still important to them. He explained to me that they only organize the first year of studies and that they have neither the ability nor the intention to plan the entire curriculum for physicians. It's good to know. But among the Luxembourgers who are trained here, there are not many who remain in Belgium. They return to practice in their own country. As far as the competition in each Community is concerned, we will obviously see the results of both. What is interesting is that we have the opportunity to make a positive smoothing for the Flemish and negative for the Francophones, in order to compensate for the excess number existing. This will lead to another balance at the end of the smoothing period. My proposal is to do this at the same time. This is my proposal, I don't know if others have other visions about it. As far as quotas are concerned, you say that it is urgent, but I note that last year Mr Marcourt set them in August. My proposal has been on the table for three or four weeks. I have a sense of urgency, I always want to settle things quickly but I accept the fact that others want to do otherwise. Mrs Muylle, you will have a déjà vu, me too, but I laughed more at the other banks than I do now, because it is indeed a complicated problem. I have always said that I want a sustainable solution to put an end to the annual squabbling at any time of the academic year. I want our students to be well trained in all disciplines, both in the French and Flemish Community, and I also want a solution for all students who are already working. After all, you speak of the students who are about to start, but it is only now that it is really difficult for those who are already in the fifth or sixth years and already know that there will not be enough certificates. They're in trouble. Whoever is in the first year has other cats to fling, but whoever is in the fifth or sixth year has to charge to pass difficult exams, not to talk about the sponsors, parents, grandparents and the rest of the street that lies awake. I take that very seriously. I went to college, too. If my mother had not been sure that I would be able to practice my profession when I was in the sixth year, she would have been awake to that, too, if she hadn't been awake to anything else. It's true. I take it very seriously. I have always promised the students to look for a possible solution for all those who are studying now. For those who start, you are right, the quotas must be fixed as soon as possible, that is, the quotas for the period 2022. Here too, I think that we must choose the moment when the positive and negative smoothing will begin. Mr Thiéry, of course, the model can always be refined and this has been said by the President and by Mr Miermans. He'll still explain how we can do it every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u45	There were models dating from 2008 and 2009 that were static. There could be no changes or new features. Last year, we redeveloped this model. Now we have a tool that we can change ourselves, adapt, and improve functionality. This has been a great investment in time, but we now have something dynamic. We're still talking about the 2012 data. We are aware of this problem. We think we've found a solution. The problem is, above all, the permit we receive from the Privacy Commission. We're going to apply for permission for several years. Each year we will be able to update the data. This will allow us to have something more recent each year, and to have a more robust model.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u46	I have obviously based myself on the recommendations of the Planning Commission. I am convinced that these scientific methods have taught us important things and taken into account existing variability. It is up to politicians to reach a political agreement. And here, I must tell you that for me, this one cannot be far removed from all the recommendations that have been made. I am open to everything and I leave this to my colleagues. However, we have developed a system such as this one, a planning commission made up of people working in a scientific way. They include representatives of several professions in the field of health care, as well as representatives of French-speaking and Flemish universities, representatives of the Intermutualist College, representatives of the French-speaking, German-speaking and Flemish Communities, representatives of the INAMI and the Public Health FPS. In addition, a member of my firm followed the work. The work that has been done represents a major step forward in the scientifically based methodology. Nobody is perfect, but we cannot ignore the fact that a whole new method is being used now, which means that we are no longer driving blind and that is a step in the right direction. Mrs Dedry, you said that you acknowledged the enormous work that has been done, which offers prospects for the future, possibly with fine-tuning if any. I think it is a good thing that we continue on that road. The many work done by this Planning Committee, with the expertise of some people in the administration, provides a good basis for submitting a proposal to the government. It is then up to politics to make decisions. We will still have to be patient to see when this knot may be cut. That is not exceptional for this work, and it is equally true for other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u47	Do my fellow Members still wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for this information. If I may allow myself a parenthesis, I have informed Mr. Delizée of the content of your message; he is pleased. That being said, as far as the viability threshold is concerned, I have heard your explanation. You yourself cited a threshold of activity considered dangerous. However, I would like to point out that 300 is more or less the number of graduate students in the early 2000s. I am therefore always questioning the setting of this threshold. Were the faculties interviewed? With a threshold of this order, will we be able to meet the needs of the population? I welcome the positive attitude that you have shown once again, Madam Minister, towards the filter implemented by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. I would like to stress that. I do not know why, perhaps for somewhat aberrant questions of principles, criticisms are made that it does not work, when we have not yet evaluated after a school year. I note, in any case, that you have had positive words about this mechanism being implemented. With regard to the body of our midday discussion, which is the implementation of the recommendations that we have just heard, you said that it was the government that was going to make the decision. But I remember, and I want to be sure that I understand, that as far as you are concerned, you will fully defend the content of the work that has just been given to us in information and that, indeed, we will see what the government will do. Be aware that my group will support you in this process. And then there's a question that you haven't answered and it's about consultation with federated entities. I asked you if she was still in school and when the last meeting had taken place. The smoothing to which you referred must be settled by a memorandum of understanding with the Communities; it must be correct and humane vis-à-vis the students. When can it be concluded? I would be interested to hear from you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u49	Madam Secretary, you say I'm the only one questioning the model. I have heard four fellow Members raise the question of whether the whole question of care is taken into account, which would be problematic in that case. So I want to nuance. I insist on the fact that it is a skew. Last year, however, Dr Marc Moens, Secretary-General of the Confederation of Belgian Professional Associations, came up with a study showing that the doctor's density in the French Community is as much as 29% higher than in Flanders. Today we come up with a model to get rid of the 60/40 rule. I am glad that it will be a political choice, because there is no logic to that for me. In my questions I have raised a number of issues which do raise that logic, but that is a logic that I dispute. How we continue to deal with it is a political story. Understand me very well, I absolutely want this government to find an agreement, which can certainly go back to your compromise, in which I have always been very loyally supportive and will continue to support you. For us, however, it is a compromise which, given the history of the dossier, was already very difficult to accept. The compromise says that we will only allow a further lissage if the filter works, not before. That has not been proven today. The Flemish Government has not yet accepted this either. She too has a say in this. I hope that a pay-off plan will not be spread over 20 years, because then we will continue to carry this dossier around. That's what we agreed on. We want to follow that road. I want to be very loyal about this, but I do have doubts about the figures today. Mrs Fonck, I cannot help saying a few things to you, because I have the feeling that we will have to have that discussion a few more times before you put certain things in the right perspective. Firstly, you really do not have to lecture us on this dossier, as you did earlier in your question. I'll try to explain it to you once more. You have a lot of doctors in Wallonia today. If you have deficits in the sub-specialities, it is a Community competence, and I say to you: tackle the problem above all, but do not keep talking about the general quotas, because they have nothing to do with it. If we pull it up today, your problem won't be solved. Secondly, it is indeed scandalous that these poor students, which you are talking about, are in that situation today. If they are in trouble today, it is because of your community government and not because of Mrs De Block or this government. For years we have been contributing to the consequences of the unwillingness that you have spent years and years and years and years in this file. After all, the fact that you are dealing with a number of doctors has consequences. That costs money! This leads to the overconsumption that is being taken into account today. That's the problem! Do not make it a political or a Community game, because it is not for me. It's just reality! Asking us again if we want to understand these poor students, to which you should explain yourself, is a step too far for me. This had to come out again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u50	I could make it short and fully agree with the previous speaker. Madam Secretary, I understand that you want a sustainable solution. You know the problem very well. You're a doctor yourself. You will therefore be aware, more than anyone else in this Chamber, that the Flemish general practitioners will not be happy if you follow the advice of the Planning Committee. Nor will they be happy with your proposal that is on the table today. I can fully endorse Mrs Van Peel's criticism. I am also counting on the veto, to which the N-VA refers in its press releases, not only on paper, but also in the Council of Ministers that they will not allow the reward of Walloon malpractice to be passed. Your concern for the French-speaking fifth- and sixth-year-olds, who will no longer be given numbers to practise the profession of doctor, is entirely justified. In fact, Mrs Fonck, it is up to those who have created this misguided policy to explain to those students why they can no longer become doctors. You have just spoken of respect. It is a form of elementary courtesy to dare to defend one's own policy rather than try to pass the invoice. This is a file that's been dragging on for far too long. We're out of money to keep buying off solutions. I am counting on the political decision to be correct. Madam Secretary, you say you're open to anything. If you do not get out of the Council of Ministers with another Belgian compromise, please do not hold back on the question of the division of social security, then the French-speaking people can appoint as many doctors as they want, but at least they will pay for it themselves. We will certainly support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u51	Since you are talking about reality, and we have to talk about it, let us talk about the students who are in the pipe today and for whom, indeed, we could not accept that when they graduate, that they have succeeded in our universities, they cannot benefit from an INAMI number, even though European doctors, not Belgian, for a number of them with less quality training, could benefit from it. This is, for me, the priority of priorities, and it has nothing to do with the quotas we are talking about here. With regard to this reality – and if my figures are not correct, do not hesitate to contradict me – I must repeat, I do not say that there is no surplus of students on the francophone side, that is, students in addition to the number of INAMI numbers available at the end of the course. I've never called this into question. But the reality on the Dutch-speaking side is also – and I have the numbers before me – 554 supernumerary students for the Flemish Community in 2020. It's factual. It's just reality, and so when we talk about reality, we have to be able to talk about the whole issue and not just what suits you, Mrs Van Peel. On quotas and what we are discussing here, that is, the future. When I hear some people say you don't have to mix everything, I don't have a problem with that. But it is the minister herself who announces that a political decision will have to be made that must integrate the smoothings. I translate: Madam Minister, you are not going to follow the conclusions of the Planning Commission, but you will mix up the file concerning those who are already in their medical school today and who still keep a sword of Damocles above their heads as to whether or not they will, when they graduate, have or not... You have even referred to a seven-year "smoothing", which is a new downward trend in relation to what has been mentioned and about which agreement has not been reached in the discussions between the federal government and the federated entities. That said, there is no question of starting a discussion here on this subject. In conclusion, I will tell you, minister, that new students are coming. Like their families, they have the right to know what situation they might find themselves in. It is logical that those who hesitate should be able to know, in due course, the quotas that will apply in 2016, since that is what this is about when we talk about the release in 2022 and the INAMI numbers that may or may not be granted that year. We are at the forefront of an academic year. It is now that students make their choice. The competition took place last Saturday, in other words, three days ago, on the French side. In view of the year the students lived, it would be responsible and respectful for the students and families to quickly bring these quotas to their knowledge. For this, a royal decree will have to be taken. It is mandatory to adopt a royal decree to define the said quotas. I hear that this issue has been on the political negotiating table for three or four weeks, in intercabinets. I therefore hope that all the parties of this majority will be attentive to the reality of the students so that a royal decree can be taken quickly and so that students, their families and universities can organize themselves in a respectful minimum. According to me, it's really important. That, Madam Minister, is the last message I wanted to convey today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u52	I have the same question, because for the third time there has not really been an answer. Firstly, how can you justify the imposition of quotas on our students who graduate here, whereas in the meantime dentists with a foreign diploma can pour in unbridled? Secondly, will you also provide for quality requirements, for example in terms of the language for dentists with a foreign diploma who come to settle here? I would like to pick up another unanswered question from the Ecolo-Green Member. She noted that there was a large difference in the level of effectiveness between doctors above or below the language limit. Unless I missed something, I didn't really get an answer to that question. It is certainly an interesting question, which deserves an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u53	Mr Frédéric, as I mentioned, the proposal that I submitted for reflection is far from the threshold of activity mentioned as problematic by Professor Deliège. If this level is 300, we are beyond the threshold of about 100-150 students. So there is really no danger for French-speaking faculties. Mrs Van Peel, you note that four fellow Members took the question of care. That's right. Three fellow Members are also satisfied with the answer. Dr. Moens himself made a number of calculations and also, as usual, published last year. I read that, too. I was therefore pleased that Dr Moens took part in and voted for all the activities of the Planning Committee. So there is still such a thing as moving insight. I think Dr Moens was also pleased with the scientific methods for the calculations, because he voted in favour of them. You say, "If the filter works," I, like the Planning Committee, assume that the filter must and will work. The number of students going to the second bachelor's year in the French-speaking part of the country is fixed, limited. It's a numerus fixus, which means the number is fixed. That's not so hard to understand. We can therefore assume that this filter will work. Mrs Pas says that the Flemish general practitioners are not happy. She is no longer present; I actually wanted to ask her if the Flemish general practitioners were happy when so many more doctors were trained in the other part of the country. For her, the ready-made solution is the division of social security, but in this dossier I think I know something about that. In the proposal I made to the government, I largely follow the Planning Committee, but not entirely, since I added a supplementary bolt to it. It's just a lock that's supposed to be used to intervene. If too many candidates were to be trained in one or the other part of the country, I could intervene, because that lock will allow me to give only those who fall within the quotas a numero INAMI. The file is already called numéro INAMI and it will really become a RIZIV number, where only the RIZIV number will give access to the training. So that's an extra stick behind the door. As far as the comments on language requirements are concerned, Mrs Van Camp, the law on patients' rights, which came into force in 2002, Mrs Dedry is well aware of this, since she was sitting on this bench with Mrs Aelvoet. I believe that in Brussels and in certain other places in our country it has long since ceased to be Dutch or French. Anyway, that's something we can take into account in the next law on patients' rights. You have no answer for the fact that there is free movement of persons in the European Community. Yeah, that's what it is. This has also been discussed in the United Kingdom, following the Brexit. We are in favour of freedom of trade and all the facilities that can be enjoyed through the European Community, but we are not in favour of the free movement of persons. This also applies to people with a profession as a dentist or doctor. We will not be able to stop that unless we go for a splash. We would then escape that, too, but perhaps we would have other problems to deal with. Mrs Fonck, for once, I want you to listen to me! It's not serious! You're talking about all the students in the pipe, so they're studying, and I always said I wanted to find a solution for them to get their number. Negative smoothing will begin after this cohort, for students who are not yet in the "pipes". You say it's urgent to take the royal decree. It is certain that the quotas will be based on the figures in the possession of the Planning Commission. I hope we have an agreement on everything in the government. What happens if we don't do something? Then there's gonna be big problems. Then there will be no solution for those who are in the pipeline, for the students in the fifth and sixth years. Then it stops there too, because we are already giving numbers that are meant for 2020. I do not know whether you are aware of the waste that has been done by the French Community. It is as if one is hunting through his entire wager in the first week of the month, and then finds that one has no money anymore. There has been a huge waste in the past few years. The next generation will pay the price if we do nothing. If we do nothing, there will be some 400 people on the Flemish side by 2020. There will also be a huge shortage of dentists, because we see that more dentists need to be trained on the Flemish side. The 60/40 ratio has been changed to 58/42 for the doctors, but the ratio has changed in reverse for the dentists. On the Flemish side, we will have to form more dentists, and less on the Walloon side. The opposite is true for the doctors. That's a conclusion from the planning committee's calculations. Doing nothing is the worst thing one can do. After so many years there must be some stability for the medical students, both for the students on the Flemish side and for the students on the French side. There must also be some stability for the deans, who must always invest in their faculties of medicine. They need to know what they're up to. Not least, there must be stability for the students who are in the pipeline wherever they are, as well as for their families and other people who support them. For us, the quality of training is essential. We believe that the quality of all our faculties can be guaranteed by these measures. That is also necessary for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u54	Minister, I understood very well how you approached the Planning and Smoothing Commission. If I intervene again, because I have spoken a lot about this aspect, it is to tell you that the free movement of diplomas is not automatic. This is not a solution for the future! This goes through a commission for examination of the diploma.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u55	This is for non-Europeans!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u56	I'm astonished at what I hear! The free movement of diplomas is not necessarily always in line with the issue of patients. It cannot run counter to Belgian laws and legislation. With regard to the free movement of diplomas, Madam Minister, we can no longer continue to accept doctors arriving here without any basic knowledge of one of the national languages. It is not acceptable for doctors, even Europeans, to start practicing in hospitals from the first day and not be able to make themselves understood or to make an anamnesis of patients or to understand what they are expressing! And in a number of cases, at the very least, we have to put very clear requirements in it, otherwise we go completely against the quality of care at home, but also against the rights of the patient. If the patient cannot be understood and does not understand what is expressed, it is obviously a major and unacceptable difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u57	Mrs Fonck, on this last point, you are talking about two things. If you say that foreign doctors must make themselves understood and understand patients, it is in section 7 of the Law on the Rights of Patients and it is obvious that it is the responsibility of the hospital that engages them. It's also necessary. When you say that European legislation states that "there is a free movement of people in the European Union" and you do not accept it, I note that it is a "Fonxit"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u58	Minister, finally, but diplomas are being reviewed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u59	No! Only for non-Europeans!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u60	But finally, there is an examination of equivalence of diplomas!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u61	No, I don't! This has not been the case for years!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u62	In any case, what is clear is that when you say that patients – I'm talking about non-Belgian Europeans – don't have any worries with doctors coming from where I don't know... Obviously, we don't have any problems with the French coming to our house! I imagine the same goes for those who come from the Netherlands and go to work in Flanders. But situations are increasingly common, where Romanian or Spanish doctors practice without speaking a word of French. In my opinion, this must also happen in Flanders. To the co-workers to say it! But in any case, it is a reality and, for patients, it is not conducive. Really!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u63	Mrs. Fonck, you're confusing two problems. First of all, you are really not properly informed. I don't know what your source is, but all professionals can move freely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u65	Yes, but you say they have to compare the plans. That is absolutely not the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u66	They don't get their INAMI number in three seconds!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u67	You don't have to mix up problems. They are obliged to understand and speak the language in which they have to work - for sure - and it is the responsibility of those who engage them. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u68	Minister, they're getting an INAMI number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u69	This is European law, Mrs Fonck! If you disagree, you have to go to the area where the helicopter is and settle next to Mr....- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic455x.u70	Yes, but it's not a counter that automatically issues an INAMI number that falls as if by magic.
