ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic321x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a few years ago, in 2012-2013, the federal government led by Mr Di Rupo, on the one hand, and the Flemish Government under the leadership of Mr Peeters, on the other hand, had a lot of tension and discussion about the so-called upsurged powers. They were given names in the past as phantom powers, mother-in-law powers and you name it. These powers belong to the Länder, but expenditure is still at federal level. At that time, Flanders was right to call for these powers to be removed from the federal budget. In fact, I tabled an amendment to that effect in the last budget negotiations. At the time, however, none of that came into the house and the sixth state reform suddenly concluded the debate on the powers that have been transferred, the pure and the mixed ones. In dealing with this year's budget, I made a comparison on the basis of a list drawn up by the federal administration. At the time, the administration made an inventory of the powers that have been overwhelmed. Now, if I compare these with the items in this year's budget, I come to a calculation where, for the purely updated powers, about EUR 3 million is still included in the 2016 federal budget. For the mixed powers, this amounts to EUR 234.5 million in the same budget. As far as the purely upsurped powers are concerned, the vast majority of the power package comes from your jurisdictional package, Madam Secretary of State. Hence this interplay with you. I know that there is a Community commitment to a standstill until the end of the legislature. I am therefore under no illusions that there will be discussions on mixed powers. As far as purely up-surped powers are concerned, it is no longer necessary to discuss whether something should be transferred; these powers already belong to Flanders. It seems to me to be contrary to the federal loyalty contained in the coalition agreement, in order to continue to pay against that division of powers at federal level for the purelyUsurped powers. Hence my specific questions. Will you work on the transfer to the Länder of the purely updated powers that belong to your policy area? The money that goes with this must of course also be transferred, so that these posts can be definitively removed from the federal budget of 2017. I will be there in time because I know that the budget discussions will start in good time. I certainly do not want to hear the argument that I asked too late. If you intend to do so, Madam Secretary of State, when will you start doing so, and when do you think you will be able to complete that task? If you do not wish to take any initiatives in this area, I would like to know why. Do you not think that the inclusion in the federal budget of the purely upsurped powers is contrary to the federal loyalty that was included in the coalition agreement? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic321x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I would like to inform you that I will not take any initiatives on the possible initiatives to transfer some of my powers, which you regard as usurpering. Within the current federal government, as you know and have said, the agreement was made that no Community action should be taken during the present legislature. A transfer to the Länder is therefore not currently under discussion. Nevertheless, I believe that the transfer of usurping powers with the corresponding resources should be addressed in the context of a subsequent state reform. Such an attitude is by no means contrary to federal loyalty. Federal loyalty, read in conjunction with the principle of reasonableness, implies that every legislator must, in exercising his power, ensure that his action does not make the exercise of the powers of the other legislators impossible or excessively difficult. The transfers already included in the sixth state reform will therefore be carried out loyally. Thus the interuniversity attraction poles will be transferred to the Communities. To this end, a proposal for a cooperation agreement has already been drawn up and delivered to the ministers of the French and Flemish Community Governments. We plan to sign the cooperation agreement in the first half of 2016, so that it will be operational from 1 January 2018. From the financial year 2018 onwards, 17.7 million euros will be transferred to the Flemish Community and 13.9 million euros will be transferred to the French Community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic321x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, you speak subtlely about what I qualify as usurping powers that fall within your range of competences. I have here a table of the federal administration, the inventory from 2013. I think you have easier access to that than I do. I have based myself on that, and I cannot help thinking that most of these purely usurping powers fall within your remit. Secondly, you say that it is not contrary to federal loyalty and that it falls within the scope of the Community's standstill. Actually, you're turning the tables. You say this should be discussed in a forthcoming state reform. I will use the words of Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, I admit that he was wearing a different hat when he spoke them out when he was questioned by us for the umpteenth time about the usurping powers, of course in his capacity as Prime Minister at the time. He was right when at the plenary session of the Flemish Parliament on 21 March 2012: "It can't be that usurping powers are the subject of a state reform afterwards. Then they're not phantom powers. Phantom powers are powers which we already have and which cannot be transferred. That's what I said in my question. This should no longer be discussed in a further state reform, which already belongs to the Länder. It's the expenses that are still federal. So it is precisely the application of the federal loyalty that should encourage you to ensure that these expenses are no longer federal, because they go against all the divisions of power. You probably expected it. I'm going to table a motion of recommendation. You can present them immediately to the Council of Ministers, where you can remind Mr Kris Peeters of his words. I hope you'll do whatever you want to do. After all, you say the opposite of what you are doing, it is contrary to federal loyalty and it is also up to the opposition to guard that part of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic321x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, and Science Policy, responsible for Large Cities, added to the Minister of Finance, - whereas the federal government still finances a number of powers which are legally within the powers of the Länder, the so-called "usurping powers"; - having regard to the inventory drawn up in 2013 by the federal administration on the usurping powers; - whereas this inventory distinguishes between purely usurping powers (which fall exclusively within the competence of the Länder) and mixed usurping powers (where both the Länder and the federal authorities have some competence); - having regard to the draft general budget for the financial year 2015 (Articles 54-0496/02) and 2016 (Articles 54-1352/002), - whereas in the budget headings of the Secretary of State for Science Policy, the vast majority of purely usurping powers are to be found; - having regard to Article 143 of the Constitution which provides that "the Federal State, the Communities, the Regions and the Common Community Commission shall, in the exercise of their respective powers, observe the federal loyalty"; -Attention to the federal government agreement of 9 October 2014 which endorses the principles of federal loyalty and good faith of this government, asks the Secretary of State for Science Policy take an initiative to transfer the purely usurping powers belonging to its policy areas together with the corresponding resources to the Länder for the preparation of the 2017 budget." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Big Cities, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, [[-]] Whereas the federal authority still finances a number of powers which, from a legal point of view, belong to the federated entities (the said responsibilities usurped); - having regard to the inventory of usurped skills drawn up in 2013 by the federal government; - Whereas in this inventory a distinction is made between pure usurped competences (which are exclusively the responsibility of the federated entities) and mixed usurped competences (which are the responsibility of both the federated entities and the federal authority); - having regard to the draft general budget for the budget year 2015 (document 54-0496/002) and 2016 (document 54-1352/002); Whereas the budget items of the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy contain the majority of purely usurped powers; - having regard to Article 143 of the Constitution, which provides that "in the exercise of their respective powers, the Federal State, the Communities, the Regions and the Joint Community Commission shall act with respect for federal loyalty"; - having regard to the Federal Government Agreement of 9 October 2014 in which this Government adheres to the principles of federal loyalty and good faith, asks the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy to take an initiative to transfer the purely usurped competences that fall within its political remit, as well as the corresponding means, to the federated entities for the preparation of the 2017 budget." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
