ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u1	Madam President, Minister, it was last July that the Seeds of Innocence Fertility Clinic was inaugurated in Delhi, a fertility treatment clinic that proposes surrogate maternity. This inauguration took place in the presence, in particular, of Jan Luykx, Ambassador of Belgium. A memorandum of cooperation was signed between the clinic and the Department of Reproductive Medicine of the University of Ghent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in India, some 600 children were born from pregnancy to others in 2012. With 250 million poor, this country is clearly a "reservoir" of surrogate mothers since sperm and oocyte glitters are purchased online, often in Denmark or Ukraine, to ensure the future baby "a European character of the North". Fertilized and frozen, they are then sent by plane to be implanted in the belly of Indian women who do not leave and who do not have permission to leave the House of Surrogates where they are locked up until the delivery, which takes place under the caesarean section so that the sponsors can attend the event. All this is quite challenging and demonstrates a significant human marketing as well as a situation of abuse of these particularly disadvantaged Indian women. Minister, can you explain to me the reasons for the ambassador's presence at the inauguration of this clinic? I have just presented to you the reality of India and, in particular, of Indian women. By the presence of the ambassador, I believe that the Belgian State supports what is being done there. What guarantees do we have against the real risks of commercial GPA practices and exploitation of Indian women's poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, the Belgian Ambassador to India was invited to attend, on July 7, 2015, the opening of the Seeds of Innocence Fertility Clinic in New Delhi, the main purpose of which is to help couples with fertility problems to pursue adequate medical treatment. On this occasion, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the clinic founded by Dr Gauri Agarwal, graduated in in vitro fertilization in Belgium, on the one hand, and the Department of Reproductive Medicine of the University of Ghent, occasionally represented by Professor Petra De Sutter, on the other. This, of course, justified the presence of the Belgian ambassador. The Indian Minister of the Interior has formally opened the clinic. To my knowledge and according to the information received following your question, this is a clinic specializing in in vitro fertilization which I am told has nothing to do with the practice of surrogate maternity. If you have any further information about this clinic, please do not hesitate to send them to me. But as regards the presence of the ambassador, I assume that, a priori, if a clinic is opened by the Minister of the Interior of the host country and this is the occasion of the signing of an agreement between a reputable Belgian university and a clinical officer who has, for part, also completed his studies in Belgium, the presence is entirely justified. But again, to my knowledge, I do not have the information on the practice of surrogate maternity. If you have more precise information, do not hesitate, even in confidence, to send it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, there is what we know and the rest. I heard what you were saying. I won't say much more today. Let us be particularly vigilant because there is in vitro fertilization, but in fertility there is also pregnancy for others. And, in this case, I think I have been quite explicit before and have demonstrated the situation of the women and children market in India. These figures and realities are well known. I will allow myself to return to the subject, not through a parliamentary question, but in a more direct way. I think it is important to be particularly careful that we do not condone, in one way or another, those market organisations which sometimes do so in a subtle way but which, unfortunately, are actually using today a reservoir of surrogate mothers in India.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u4	Minister, at the end of January 2016, the French Minister for Foreign Affairs presented an initiative to bring the Middle East peace process back on track. It is a démarche by France to the UN Security Council, with a view to organising an international conference to revitalise the peace process. Minister, what is your view on the initiative? The EU Foreign Affairs Council discussed the initiative on Monday 14 March. What position has Belgium defended in this regard? Can you explain our country's position? Was our country approached by the French government to support the initiative? If so, what answer was given to France?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u5	It was an initiative of the former French Foreign Minister, Laurent Fabius. I've been in touch with him about that. The new Foreign Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, continues with the same initiative. We have had a great deal of contact from the outset on this initiative, not only in bilateral but also at European level. Our position is clear: we support the French idea of an international conference. The situation on the ground today is very dangerous. We remain concerned about the continuing violence in Israel and the Palestinian territories and about the stalemate in the Middle East peace process. We must do everything we can to create a new political perspective. In this respect, Belgium welcomes all initiatives which could contribute to the restoration of the Middle East peace process. We therefore welcome the fact that France is taking the initiative to create a new dynamic. However, we asked our French partners for more details on the form of the conference, the course of the preparatory phase, the reaction of the parties concerned and the position of regional and international actors. For us, it is extremely important that the European Union plays a central role in the initiative. We also expressed this view at the Foreign Affairs Council on 14 March. By the way, this condition applies to all initiatives. Of course, it is useful for a Member State to take national initiatives, but there is always a central role to be played by the European Union. France has, of course, approached us to hear our views on the initiative, as it should be between allies and Member States of the European Union. We keep in regular contact with France. My colleagues have had a long talk with Ambassador Vimont, France's Special Envoy, for the preparation of the conference, among other things. I myself have been in contact with the Prime Minister and with John Kerry during his most recent visit to Brussels. With John Kerry I discussed the benefits of the initiative. We are therefore trying to give our support, and I will do so during my visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories. I hope it will be possible to achieve some results. We support, without any doubt, the French initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u6	Minister, you mention a national initiative well, but I understand that you are immediately placing it in a European framework, in order to make it stronger, of course. I hope with you that your visit from 7 to 10 May will boost that and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u7	I'm going to Congo first!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u8	Madam President, this question was tabled on 11 March, but unfortunately it is still relevant. Minister, Dr. Mukwege, a famous gynaecologist from eastern DRC, has once again been in the spotlight. On that occasion, he denounced rape as a weapon of war and also alerted the international community to the increase in the number of baby rapes. About a month ago, the doctor said he was very concerned because a large number of patients now come from areas outside the conflict zone and violence affects a growing number of children, including babies. It also expressed concern about the number of former child soldiers forced by armed groups to commit acts of savagery and who have been integrated into the army. Impunity therefore still prevails in this country and the silence of the international community ends up becoming "deaf." A petition signed by more than 200 organizations was submitted to the Human Rights Council. The text entitled No to Impunity calls, inter alia, for the Council to publish a secret list of 617 persons suspected of having committed rape and human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 1993 and 2003. The petition also calls on the United Nations to support the establishment of a special tribunal of international judges and prosecutors to try war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in that country and calls for systematic collection of DNA samples in rape cases. Minister, can you give us more information about the situation in this country? Have you ever discussed this issue with your Congolese and European counterparts? Otherwise, do you intend to address it on your next mission to the DRC? What is Belgium's position on the establishment of this special court? Would you be prepared to support this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, I have already had many contacts with Dr Mukwege on this issue and with the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I went to Panzi Hospital in Bukavu myself. Therefore, the initiatives did not fail in this regard, including when Dr. Mukwege suffered an attack that resulted in the death of his driver/bodyguard. In this regard, we have taken steps to assist him and to enable him to find support from MONUSCO and the Belgian authorities. The problem is well known. Unfortunately, it is still relevant, even if the question is a bit old. Sexual and gender-based violence therefore remains a scourge in the DRC. However, there are some positive developments, such as President Kabila's appointment of Ms. Jeanine Mabunda as Special Representative for Children in Armed Conflict and Sexual Violence. This issue has also received special attention with the award of the Sakharov Prize to Dr. Mukwege for his work at the Panzi Hospital. On 8 March, on the occasion of International Women's Rights Day, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation organized a debate on the sidelines of the 31st session of the Human Rights Council on the protection of women and children in conflict. Prior to the debate, Dr. Mukwege transmitted to High Commissioner Zeid a petition on behalf of some 100 Congolese NGOs denouncing the persistent impunity and called, inter alia, for lifting the embargo on the basis of the currently strictly confidential data of the OHCHR, identifying the alleged perpetrators of the 617 violent incidents documented in the Mapping project report. Belgium is concerned about the high number of serious human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in the eastern part of the country, including sexual and gender-based violence, the escalation of intercommunal violence and the persistence of attacks by armed groups. While some steps have been taken to end impunity, in particular against members of the security forces, further efforts should be made to investigate and prosecute all cases of sexual violence so that this scourge can be eradicated. The reflection on transitional justice mechanisms, including the re-establishment of truth and reconciliation commissions, or an international tribunal for the DRC, has been discussed on several occasions in recent years. The conclusion has generally been the inadaptation and non-relevance of such a solution in the current context. Unfortunately, the Congolese justice system suffers from a lack of independence and makes effective prosecutions all too often random. We urge the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to prosecute and bring to justice all perpetrators of human rights violations, whether they are members of the State apparatus or not. I will have the opportunity to refer again to this situation with the Congolese authorities on a forthcoming trip to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and probably to return to it later in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. The concern about this situation is shared by a number of Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u10	Minister, thank you for these elements and for the attention given to this issue. You say that the question of setting up a court has been raised several times, to be considered inappropriate. Who thought she was? Are they the Congolese authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u11	Several debates have taken place on the international scene. When we speak of an international criminal court, we need a willingness to create it at the international level. When we talk about truth and reconciliation commissions, it is a transitional problem that is at stake. This may not be entirely appropriate for the Congolese case, but it does not prevent the search for other ways to combat impunity and try to prosecute and punish these acts of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u12	Thank you for that answer. We may discuss it again when you return from your mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u13	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u14	Question No 10120 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is postponed. Questions No 10124 by Mrs Renate Hufkens and No 10149 by Mr Georges Dallemagne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u15	Mr Minister, we know that the fight against commercial dumping is an important undertaking both at national and European level. This includes the protection of our jobs, the survival of our industries and our expertise in many industrial and economic sectors. The European Union's trade defence system is based on the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO), which allows its members to react against unfair trade practices (Article 6 of GATT 1994, Anti-dumping and Anti-Subsidy Agreement). In addition to the WTO criteria, the Union is based on two principles: the lesser duty rule, which allows the imposition of duties below the dumping or subsidy margin, and the Union interest test, which ensures that the interests of all Union economic agents – producers, importers, users of the imported product and consumers – will be taken into account before measures are taken. In 2006-2007, a reform of trade defence instruments was envisaged, but without producing results due to differences among stakeholders. Following the emergence of new challenges, the European Commission, under the leadership of former Commissioner Karel De Gucht, presented on 10 April 2013 a package aimed at modernising the EU's trade defence policy, including a communication, a legislative proposal to be discussed in co-decision, as well as four guidelines on EU interest, injury margin, analogue country and final review investigations. In April 2014, the European Parliament strongly supported the strengthening of these instruments by, inter alia, calling for the removal of the lesser duty rule for cases of social and environmental dumping and when complaints are lodged by SMEs. Since then, this case has been blocked at Member State level. In November 2014, the Council discussed this issue but did not reach agreement, despite the importance of the subject. More than a year later, while the issue of the survival of European industries is at the heart of the debate, in particular in connection with the possible granting of market economy status to China in December 2016, strengthening European tools to combat dumping is more than ever a priority, but national delegations remain deeply divided. Today, eleven Member States would be in favour of it, particularly with regard to the reform of the lesser law rule, three others would be in favour but would like more restrictive definitions, while the other fourteen would be firmly opposed to it and would like to maintain the status quo. Apart from the exclusion of the lesser duty rule, discussions are also continuing on a range of technical issues (SME assistance service, reimbursement, duration and shipping clause, prior notification), as well as on definitions of raw materials and energy. Among the countries that oppose this reform are Belgium and Great Britain. The Commission has published a communication calling on Member States to unblock the modernisation of trade defence instruments. Mr Minister, if I ask you today, it is because I would like to understand why Belgium is blocking this reform when the survival of our industries is at stake. Of course, I am thinking of our trade relations with China. It is essential for the European Union and our country to quickly find a way to comply with these commitments to the WTO, while ensuring that European and Belgian workers are genuinely protected from unfair trade practices. We are convinced that the European Union must have a more effective anti-dumping mechanism that takes into account the real situation of the Chinese market. However, our country does not seem inclined to curb what should be called industrial and commercial dumping practices. Minister, what is Belgium's current position on the issue of the modernization of trade defence instruments, particularly vis-à-vis China? Are you ready to support reform when the issue is addressed in the Council? Do you intend to take initiatives to urge the European Commission and the Council to unblock the modernisation and strengthening of European trade defence instruments by involving the European social partners in this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u16	Mrs Grovonius, in the Council of the European Union, discussions on the proposals of the Committee on the Modernisation of Trade Defence Instruments are actively discussed in working groups where Belgium is represented by the SPF Economy. I therefore suggest that you approach the past positioning of Belgium in these various working groups, including during the previous legislature, with Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, in charge of supervising this department. The issue of the European Union's trade relations with China and the specific issue of China's application for market economy status by the European Union was discussed at the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council on 27 November, which I am responsible for. At that time, Belgium actively advocated for a taboo revival of discussions for a cross-cutting amendment of trade defence instruments in compliance with WTO rules. This solution would allow for increased means to protect our companies from any risk of unfair competition, from China or elsewhere. I continue to plead for us to move towards strengthening. The steel sector was particularly concerned about developments. At a bilateral meeting with Commissioner Malmström on 29 January, I also discussed the options presented by the Commission on the issue of China's market economy status. I have touched on the path of accompaniment with specific measures to protect the most vulnerable sectors of our economy. As you know, the Commission has in the meantime launched a public consultation, which is not limited to the social partners but is open to a very broad public, and an impact assessment until the summer. It is on the basis of these two elements that the Council will have before it a proposal from the Commission. I cannot, of course, tell you what position we will adopt once the Commission has drawn up its proposal, since I do not know it yet. I would, of course, prefer to allow this procedure to proceed, which has the merit of consulting widely with all stakeholders before taking an attitude on what the Commission will propose. I would like to point out that this attitude honours Mrs Malmström, who, in all cases, tends to play the map of transparency, through very broad consultations and through her presence in the assemblies, including in the regional assemblies in Belgium, where she explains how she manages the files. I obviously share your concerns about social dumping. At the purely internal level, the government has recently, in the context of budgetary control, re-established a series of new control mechanisms in this area. Our will is quite determined. Perhaps you have seen a lack of voluntarism from one or the other in the regional government. Personally, I cannot join your analysis at the federal level. It consists of thinking that there would be a let go in the fight against dumping: only on the contrary! This is a priority for the federal government. I hope that is also the case at other levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers, but the fears are there. Some working documents which are circulating attest to a position taken by Belgium which is not in favour of modernising these defence instruments. We therefore wish to table a motion with several elements in order to conceal the mandate that would be given to Belgium in this context. The elements in question would be the following: firstly, Belgium must clearly call on the European Commission, so as to submit to the Council as soon as possible a new proposal for the reform of trade defence tools in order to modernise and strengthen them; secondly, our country must actively support the reform of trade defence instruments in the forthcoming Council meetings; and lastly, our country must support in particular the lesser rule of law as laid down in the European Parliament's legislative resolution of April 2014, i.e. the abolition of environmental social dumping and when these complaints come from SMEs. These elements are entirely in line with your desire to combat dumping. These motions do not seem to me to be problematic, so we could approve them jointly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u18	This is in line with what the government is doing... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u19	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government 1. which our country calls on the European Commission to submit to the Council as soon as possible a new proposal for the reform of trade defence tools in order to modernise and strengthen them; 2. That our country actively supports the reform of trade defence instruments in the forthcoming meetings of the Council; 3. that our country supports, in particular, the reform of the lesser duty rule as provided for in the European Parliament's legislative resolution of April 2014 (i.e. abolition when it comes to social, environmental dumping, and when dumping complaints come from SMEs)." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the Government 1. ensure that our country calls on the European Commission to submit to the Council as soon as possible a new proposal for reform of the instruments for trade protection with a view to modernising and strengthening them; 2. ensure that our country actively supports the reform of trade defence instruments at the forthcoming Council meetings; 3. ensure that our country supports, in particular, the reform of the lowest law rule, as set out in the European Parliament's legislative resolution of April 2014 (i.e. abolishing social and environmental dumping and when the complaints about dumping come from SMEs)." A simple motion was tabled by Ms An Capoen, Ms Sarah Claerhout and Ms Nele Lijnen and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the closure of consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which allows a partner to suspend its aid if he considers that an essential and fundamental element of the agreement is no longer respected. The consultations had started on 8 December last between the European Union and Burundi and were aimed at finding, if possible, solutions to the main concerns expressed by the European Union. During the discussions, the various parties discussed measures that Burundi needed to take with regard to human rights, democratic values and the rule of law in order to be able to benefit again from European aid. On this basis, the Burundian authorities have advanced certain commitments which have proved insufficient in the eyes of the European Union. The decision to stop part of European aid to Burundi (direct aid to the government) has been taken but will be reviewed every six months by the European Union via the European External Action Service. Mr Minister, the situation in Burundi remains extremely worrying. What will be the impact on the ground of this decision? Will the freeze on the amount allocated directly to the Burundian government be deferred on projects sponsored by civil society organizations? Does this decision have any consequences at Belgian level? I follow with my question about your meeting with your Burundian counterpart. In a meeting with Burundian parliamentarians, we learned that you had met with Mr. From Croo your Burundian Foreign Affairs counterpart. The situation in Burundi remains very worrying following the decisions of the European Union. Minister, can you tell us more about the content of this meeting? Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Burundi addressed any specific requests to you? And, conversely, have you made specific requests to your Burundian counterpart? I assume that you have also addressed in this context the suspension of European aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u21	Mr Minister, my question is on the same subject. I will not repeat the whole context, Mr Crusnière has just explained it. I will come to my questions immediately. What is the status of the inter-Burundian dialogue? You met your colleague, the Foreign Minister. We ourselves met the Burundian ambassador at some point, but it was very difficult to talk to him. What precise wording did you use to explain to your colleague our position on the situation in Burundi? What was the reaction to that? What position did you defend within the EU Council? Have you received any comments from the Burundian authorities on the EU decision? There has been a UN investigation committee on human rights violations in Burundi. What are the results of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u22	Mr Minister, let me outline the context of my question. On 30 March it was announced that the former Rwandan minister and ambassador had died in Belgium in a Burundian prison. To date, the reason for his death is still unknown. Mr Bihozagara was arrested in Burundi in December on suspicion of espionage and has been in prison ever since. The Rwandan government calls his arrest illegal and calls on the Burundian Government to make clear the circumstances of his death. Both countries have been at odds for some time and this incident could make the relationship between the two countries worse and increase regional tensions. You too, Minister, said through the Twitter account of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you are concerned about the death of Mr Bihozagara and that you are calling for an independent investigation into the facts and circumstances of the imprisonment and the release of all political prisoners in Burundi. I have the following questions for you. Who or which organization do you think is best suited to carry out this independent research? Do you think that such an investigation is currently possible in Burundi? Can you further clarify your call for the release of all political prisoners in Burundi? Have you had the opportunity to discuss this with the Burundian Government? Do you think there is a real chance that this will actually happen? How do you assess the relationship between Rwanda and Burundi? Do you think that there is a real chance that tensions between the two countries will increase as a result of this incident? What possibilities do you see to reduce these tensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u23	Mr President, I also have a question about the death of the former ambassador for Rwanda. Mr Lijnen has just said that you have already indicated that you want to steer an independent investigation into the facts of death. You also called for the release of all political prisoners in Burundi. I therefore have a number of questions for you, Minister. Did you address the Burundian authorities in connection with your call for an independent investigation? If so, what is the answer? If not, when do you intend to address the authorities? A second question I have concerns the relationship between Burundi and Rwanda. They live at odds. What is the status of the relationship between Burundi and Rwanda? How do you estimate the impact of the death of the former minister on the relationship between the two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u24	Mr Dallemagne being absent, his question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u25	Mr President, Minister, last November you presented us with the measures taken by your Government to ease the chaotic and extremely violent political situation in Burundi. You mentioned the end of your cooperation with the Burundian police, the end of your bilateral cooperation on the budget, the sanctions against members of President Nkurunziza's entourage, or the commitment of €4 million to welcome the 200,000 Burundians in exile in the region. Since then, a delegation of independent experts has been sent by the United Nations Human Rights Council to Burundi to investigate the abuses committed there, confirming the risk of a civil war that could ignite the entire Great Lakes region. Even its bell at Adama Dieng, UN adviser on the prevention of genocide, who stressed that the government and the opposition were both manipulating ethnic tensions between Hutus and Tutsis and that the situation "could degenerate into atrocious crimes", as was the case in Rwanda in 1994. The Burundian government, for its part, has opened several parliamentary commissions of inquiry, but the conclusions of which are misleading, in particular those relating to the abuses committed on 11 December. Indeed, as revealed in a Human Rights Watch press release of 13 April, the main findings of the investigation do not mention any of the killings of or abuses committed against Bujumbura residents by the security forces. Worse, they suggest that those who were killed are actually armed combatants wearing police or military uniforms, which is not at all consistent with photos and videos of victims attesting that the victims were wearing civilian clothes or uniforms but did not fit their size. Human Rights Watch's appeal to establish an independent international commission of inquiry must therefore be heard, as must the appeal of the opposition to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity committed or ongoing in Burundi. Finally, I would like to recall that on 17 April, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon proposed three options for a new UN police mission in Burundi. According to diplomats, sending 228 police officers seems to be the best option, but Bujumbura's agreement for such an important mission remains uncertain. The Burundian government stated that it was prepared to welcome some 20 unarmed police experts but would oppose a "great" United Nations police presence. Mr Minister, does the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide in Burundi keep you regularly informed of developments, particularly with regard to members of the opposition, journalists and human rights activists? What is the situation of Burundians in exile? Do they enjoy refugee status? What are the results of the UN Special Rapporteurs on human rights violations in Burundi following their visit in March? Will a team be based in the country on a permanent basis? What initiatives have Belgium and the European Union taken to urge the Burundian government to respond to the Security Council resolution of 12 November? What, in your opinion and your European counterparts, are the avenues for feasible solutions that are emerging in order to be able to judge as objectively and impartially as possible the crimes committed in Burundi? What option for a new police mission in Burundi do you intend to support?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to return to all the points raised because the situation in Burundi continues to be of concern to us and to receive increased international attention. The security situation remains precarious. Of course, there has been a significant decline in the activities of the armed rebellion, but almost every day we receive disturbing reports on the number of arbitrary arrests and unexplained disappearances. However, I note that, for the time being, the Burundian government is not facilitating the work of international observers. I would also like to highlight the sharp deterioration in the economic situation resulting not only from international sanctions, but also from the increase in security spending and the sharp decline in trade with the surrounding countries. This leads the government to look for other sources of revenue, including by inventing new taxes. In addition, unfortunately, some representatives of the security forces are witnessing racketeering. Regrettably, the political situation remains blocked, despite attempts by the international community to move things forward. We therefore very much hope that an inclusive dialogue can begin quickly, but the signs are not clear in this direction. The appointment by the EAC of former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa as facilitator is a positive development because he is an experienced man who knows Burundi well and will have more time to take care of the mediation. He visited Burundi and spoke with President Nkurunziza. He also had talks with the presidents Kagame and Museveni and with Mrs Zuma. Now he will also have to contact the opposition. There is, however, concern about the internal dialogue, which is entirely directed by the Government of Burundi. The CNDI concluded its work in the provinces on 22 February but there are still activities in Bujumbura. Unfortunately, this process is not particularly inclusive, as the opposition has hardly participated. The conclusions of this dialogue therefore follow the wishes of the regime and it is feared that the Constitution and the Arusha Agreement will be unilaterally affected. I met with my counterpart, Alain Nyamitwe, on 11 March in Brussels. The Minister of Cooperation, Alexander De Croo, met with him the following week. My interview took place in a constructive atmosphere but without allowing major advances. In any case, the Minister wished to stress the importance of Belgian-Burundian relations and regretted that Belgium had been referred to as a whole in some official Burundian communiqués. He pointed out the need to have proper relations with us by insisting, therefore, on the differentiations to be made between the actors on both sides. Alain Nyamitwe asked for an understanding of the difficult situation in Burundi and discussed for a long time the opening of Burundi in the run-up to the UN Secretary-General's visits at the end of February 2016 and the African Presidents' delegation. He referred to the lifting of international arrest mandates, the reopening of two radio rifles and the acceptance of AU human rights observers and military observers. I replied that Belgium welcomes the limited positive signals, but we are still waiting for the measures announced to be implemented and extended. After all, all the measures taken so far are reversible. The Burundian reactions to the deteriorating condition are insufficient. I have, of course, stressed the importance of Burundi's participation in a truly inclusive dialogue, as I have said that Belgium stands ready to consider any request for support for a credible inter-Burundian dialogue and the facilitation of President Mkapa's mission. My interlocutor said he was open to participation in the process set up by the East African Community. As far as Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement is concerned, we have not entered into the details, since the decision was endorsed by the Council three days after our meeting. Above all, I stressed that the European Union would demand some progress in terms of human rights, political space and inclusive dialogue before returning to normal relations with Burundi. I obviously support the adoption of the appropriate measures by the European Union and its requirements contained in the annexes to this decision, which in my view constitute an important means of pressure. The Burundian authorities responded to the adoption of Article 96 by means of a press release. They deplore the EU decision which they consider to be based on a misassessment of the situation. At the same time, however, measures were announced to make the work of NGOs more difficult. All NGOs receiving international aid must now deposit their money with the central banks, officially in order to combat money laundering. Burundi also wants to introduce ethnic quotas within NGOs. The logic of Article 96 is actually to stop supporting the Burundian government, but to maintain direct support for the population. This is precisely the meaning of the measures taken by Belgium in October. This reorientation is also in line with the measures recently taken by the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie. On what can be done with available funds, I would like to refer you to Minister De Croo. A request from the EU under Article 96 is the release of political prisoners, an issue that I raised in the meeting with Minister Nyamitwe and which is also regularly on the agenda of the discussion with Burundi. Political prisoners should be understood as persons arrested simply because of their protests against the third term of office or sympathizers of the opposition parties who end up in prison simply because they attended a meeting. This is unacceptable. In any event, persons accused of violence have the right to a fair trial with respect for the course of justice and the rights of the defence. During the visit of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, President Nkurunziza promised the release of 2,000 prisoners. Some releases have already taken place, but we fear that the power will release ordinary prisoners first and foremost rather than political prisoners. It should also be noted that arrests of members of the opposition take place daily in Burundi. Three UN experts were sent to Burundi in early March to investigate human rights violations since 2015. The provisional conclusions, which were presented last month, are that, while open-ended violence such as repression of demonstrations, corpses in the streets have decreased, more discreet violence is on the rise. We are talking about unexplained disappearances and cases of torture. Most of the violence is attributable to the security forces. Experts also note the pressure on the media and NGOs and the level of fear in the population. They recommended that the number of human rights observers should be increased, that pressure on civil society and the opposition should be eased, that inflamed discourses that fuel ethnic tensions should be avoided and, on the other hand, that ethnic collaboration should be encouraged and that human rights violations should be condemned. They also called for frank discussions with Rwanda on security and refugee issues, halting violence on both sides and not harassing witnesses who had collaborated with the experts. A second team of investigators of nine is expected this month. The three experts will return to Burundi in June and the final report with recommendations will be published in September. These United Nations experts are an independent form of international investigation, as requested by human rights organizations. That is why it is important for them to be able to do their work in complete serenity. The perpetrators of these human rights violations must be identified and punished, whether they are in power or in opposition. Of course, the independence of Burundi's justice system is not guaranteed at present. I was able to observe that the International Criminal Court had been requested. We have already had contacts with the Special Adviser, Adama Dieng, on the situation in Burundi, but our main sources of information on the ground are our diplomats on the ground, the European Union mission, the United Nations observers, those of the joint human rights office we are co-financing, the few Burundian observers and international NGOs who are still able to do their work in Burundi and who all have the same message. Apart from these judicial sanctions, there are administrative sanctions, such as targeted EU sanctions. The extension of the current list limited to four persons is not yet on the agenda, as the European Union prefers to focus on Article 96. However, this could change very quickly depending on the current situation. You will note that, in its resolution 22/79, the United Nations also envisages taking appropriate measures against those whose actions and statements contribute to the perpetuation of violence and prevent the search for peaceful solutions. The resolution, adopted on 1 April, also proposes the establishment of an international police force and asks the Secretary-General to present options in this regard. The latter has just proposed three options. The first provides for the creation of an interposition force of 3,000 men. Ban Ki-moon acknowledged that it would take months to set it up and that she would face many obstacles. It is therefore an ambitious option, but difficult to accept by the Burundian authorities. The second option would be to send 228 United Nations police officers to work with human rights officials and perhaps with African Union observers who could alert but would not protect civilians. However, it would be a step forward for us to support, if the proposal were officially tabled on the table. The third option is a reduced force of 30 to 50 men who would evaluate the Burundian police and assist in the implementation of concrete and measurable improvements in respect for human rights and the rule of law. This is therefore the least ambitious and largely insufficient option. The relations between Rwanda and Burundi are currently very tense, which is disturbing. The Burundian authorities are increasingly attacking Rwanda, including recently during the open debate on the Great Lakes in the Security Council, where Rwanda was accused of destabilising Burundi. Our assessment is that the Burundian crisis did not arise abroad, but was the result of an internal political problem in Burundi. Of course, we continue to call on all countries in the region to engage constructively and to prevent recruitment in refugee camps. We must strive to strengthen the dialogue between the two governments. With the help of international experts, an impartial investigation must be carried out into Burundi's accusations against Rwanda following the arrest and unexplained death of Mr Bihozagara. The death of a former Minister and diplomat of Rwanda in a Burundian prison, where he has been in custody for a few months for unclear reasons, is not an insignificant fact and has also taken place in a particularly difficult context. Against this background and in view of the neutrality of the investigation, it seems to me advisable for international observers to investigate this further. Our embassy will, of course, raise this repeatedly with the Burundian government. The Great Lakes region is a fragile region that cannot cope with an open conflict between the two countries. Finally, as regards Burundians living in exile in Belgium, they are indeed numerous, but their situation varies greatly from one individual to another. Some have dual nationality, including Belgian nationality, others have applied for refugee status, others have refused to apply for asylum in the hope of being able to return and to play a role in Burundi's political life. Some had family in Belgium, others came alone and received assistance from NGOs. In any case, they were all forced to leave their country because their safety was in danger. It's not an easy situation to live in. We continue to advocate inclusive dialogue. I try to keep contact with the Burundian authorities through, in particular, my colleague from Foreign Affairs and also through positions adopted by the European Union often on the same lines as the African Union and, if possible, by involving the countries of the region constructively. The situation continues to deteriorate. I would like to point out that at the Foreign Affairs Council which has just been held in Luxembourg this Monday, we had, in particular, contact with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, who was obviously analysing the situation from Syria and Iraq, but also at the beginning of a whole series of other situations in the world and, again, the situation in Burundi was particularly pointed out. After my visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola, we will have the opportunity to return, at European level, to the situation in the region in general, since the situation in Burundi affects that of neighbouring countries. I would point out that there are a very large number of refugees: the 200,000 (and probably the 250 000) refugees in neighbouring countries have long been overtaken. That is what I can say about the current situation. This is not very encouraging, but we will continue to support all efforts and pressures on the regime as well as on opposition forces to avoid the use of violence and to move towards as inclusive a dialogue as possible, which is the only way to bring calm back to the region. As I said, we will also support United Nations initiatives to try to frame the situation and protect the civilian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your full answer. The picture you draw is quite black and corresponds to what we hear from the various Burundian nationals we all meet. This is in contrast to what has been heard from the ambassador or parliamentarians of the current majority who tell us that these problems are confined to five neighbourhoods of Bujumbura. Now we're in the middle of surrealism. Dialogue must, of course, be encouraged. You do it and it's necessary. The difficulty is that all opponents are abroad. Dialogue is therefore not easy to organize, but we must try to do everything possible in this area. As far as the press is concerned – this is the speech we have also heard from the parliamentarians – radio stations are being reopened, but they must be aware that they are putting journalists in control. We must not fall into the trap of these pseudo-good news when we know that there is no freedom of the press. On the contrary. As far as the release of prisoners is concerned, I also agree with what you said: ordinary prisoners are released in order to make room for political prisoners. That's unfortunate. In short, the situation is not pink and we must continue to pay attention to all this. I would also like to ask you about the status of your strategic policy note. We are in a central period both in Burundi and in the DRC and in the region. You promised us that note that was being discussed between several ministers. You told us that a few weeks ago or even a few months ago. The time is right for you to take this note because the situation in this region is such that we need a strategic note from Belgium and a strategic vision in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive overview. I can't add much to it either. The image you are sketching is indeed not encouraging. The situation remains violent and dramatic in that respect. You spoke of inclusive dialogue, but we do not notice any signs of success. You also spoke about the internal dialogue, on which there is great concern. You also talked about greater pressure on NGOs and more restrictions. At the end of your reply, you said that Belgium will continue to advocate inclusive dialogue, with the involvement of the countries in the region. I hope that you will be able to make a positive contribution with your visits. One aspect that has not been mentioned is the legitimacy of Nkurunziza. I believe that this issue should remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u29	Mr Minister, I would like to join my fellow Members in repeating that we are hearing black words that are not very hopeful today. In the beginning, however, you refer to the mediator, who is trying very hard. That is a small scam, a sparkle of hope that we can have in the conciliation process. That is important, but we are not naive. What we are also very concerned about is the fact that NGOs are increasingly being restrained. You mention the fact that donations there have to go directly to the national bank, and that worries us. It is also worrying that Belgium has stopped supporting the government itself. We will continue to support the people, but of course we will continue to support them through NGOs. We should monitor that up close. I will put a question to Minister De Croo for Development Cooperation. We continue to follow this up, but at the moment we are not very hopeful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u30	Minister, thank you very much for your very detailed report. You've very well identified all the questions. This allows me to draw attention to our fear of a new genocide. You have to be careful about it, and I am sure you will be. Your comment on the intervention of the United Nations is absolutely crucial. There is also a need for United Nations intervention in this context. We have always had a privileged relationship with Burundi. It was a fact that had to be shown that we do not accept the way they manage their policies. Moreover, not all of the problems related to the re-election of the President were pleasant. I therefore understand the position we have taken. We ask you, Minister, to be all the more attentive in the future in order to avoid what everyone fears, a new genocide because in those countries it is going extremely fast. It's galloping! It's going like a drag of powder! That is what we want to avoid. I thank you for the attention you will give in the future to the political situation in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u31	Minister, on 7 March, 54 people died in attacks in Ben Guerdane, a Tunisian town close to the Libyan border. According to the Tunisian authorities, the aim of the attacks attributed to Daesh was to establish an emirate in the area. Beyond this bloody and disturbing news, we have missed, in my view, an opportunity to accompany this country in its transition process, which has been successful so far, by not including it in the list of our partner countries for development cooperation. Today, there is a great danger that Tunisia will shift into chaos in its neighbouring countries, especially as the current situation deprives Tunisia of its most important source of income, namely tourism. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Have you received more specific information about the events of 7 March? Have any other attacks taken place since then? Are there any discussions in the European Union on the Tunisian situation and the concrete assistance that could be given to that country? Finally, do you not think that the Belgian Government should reconsider its position and place this country on the list of partner countries of our Cooperation in order to accompany it in a better way in its transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u32	Mr President, dear colleague, on Monday, 7 March, a large-scale coordinated terrorist attack was launched against an army barracks, a police station and the headquarters of the National Guard (Tunisian Gendarmerie) in Ben Guerdane, a city 30 km from the Libyan border. This offensive was repelled in the evening and various terrorist weapons depots were neutralized in the city. The actions of the security forces continued on 8 and 9 March in the region. The official record, after three days of confrontation, is of seven civilians killed in the exchange of fire. There are also 13 casualties in the army, customs and police ranks. In addition, 46 terrorists were killed. A dozen terrorists have also been arrested. However, an unknown number of terrorists were able to flee. This operation follows a previous incident on 2 March. On that day, exchanges of fire took place on the border with Libya in El Aouija. For the European Union, Tunisia, the country with which it entered into a privileged partnership in April 2014, remains a key partner that deserves to be supported by the very important progress made by Tunisia at political, democratic and human rights and fundamental freedoms levels. Bilateral aid allocated by the European Union in 2015 in the form of grants in support of Tunisia's reforms and development in general reached a record 186.8 million euros, making Tunisia the first beneficiary of EU aid in the region under the European Neighbourhood Instrument. The European Union is also paying particular attention to the issues of regional development and decentralization in that country, which has a high level of poverty in remote areas. The European Union also provides support in the field of security. In addition, the European Union is involved in major investment projects launched by development banks, including the EIB and the EBRD. Tunisia is receiving macro-financial assistance to solve structural economic problems. We also note the launch in October 2015 of the negotiations of the Comprehensive and Deep Free Trade Agreement (CFTA) between Tunisia and the European Union. Finally, from January 2016, Tunisia will participate in the Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. The European Union-Tunisia Association Council was held on 18 April. In particular, the security situation in Tunisia has been addressed, as has the contribution that the European Union can make to it. I myself had the opportunity to meet my Tunisian colleague last night and discuss with him the situation in Tunisia and in the region. As regards the decision on the partner countries of development cooperation, I would refer you to my colleague Alexander De Croo, in charge of cooperation. I note, however, that Belgium is very active in supporting Tunisia not only at European Union level but also at bilateral level. For example, it is part of the small group of countries that support it in addressing its security challenge. I would add that in the context of the debate we held in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on Libya, after a video conference with the new Prime Minister of Libya, I again urged my colleagues and the Defence Ministers present to pay more attention to securing the border between Libya and Tunisia. It was along this border that the last incidents took place. We must pay attention to the border to the coasts of the European Union (Mediterranean) and also to the specific situation of Tunisia, which is facing this type of attack from Libya. For the rest, we have agreed with my counterpart, the Foreign Minister, to further intensify contacts at bilateral level, but also, again this year, at Benelux level. Preparations for a mission which could still take place this year between Benelux and Tunisia are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u33	Mrs Grovonius asked an excellent question and I thank the minister. I do not usually intervene at this stage, but I would like to point out that Tunisia enjoys an excellent harvest. This will not always be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic385x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers.
