ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u1	Minister, thank you for agreeing to answer this question, which was introduced in mid-September. Because of personal circumstances, I have not been able to ask you before. This issue was raised very briefly in the Committee on External Relations on 6 September when we discussed the political situation in Turkey following the attempted coup d'état. It is true that this is a very particular aspect which has been echoed in the press and which I can testify to; I will say a word about it as a mayor. These are threats allegedly made against families whose children attend Belgian schools financed by the network of imam Fethullah Gülen. I tell you right away: I am not a gülenist and I am not here to defend a political sensitivity. I am even rather reserved, I must say, about this current of thought. I do not have any particular sympathy for the latter, but it is in the name of a question of principle of protection of persons that I intervene. Indeed, a school sponsored by this Gülenist current, the School of Stars in Brussels, and a school of this type in Flanders, the Lucerna school, were reportedly threatened by telephone and via the Internet. I can confirm, as a mayor and teaching officer in my commune, that children have left the school of the Stars to enrol in communal schools in the Brussels Region. This is probably the case in Flanders, in other networks. These parents acted in this way to protect their children from more specific threats that could have been made against them if they had stayed in these institutions. According to the testimonies that come to me, these threats are made by Erdogan pro-regime organizations. This would cause parents to unregister their children for fear of reprisal. These threats follow the anti-Gülenist incidents that took place in Belgium after the attempted coup d'état. In Schaerbeek, pavements had been thrown into the windows of the premises of Fedactio, which is the foundation of Turkish actions inspired by the Gülen movement. In Ghent, tags of insults had been brushed on the premises of an association and in Beringen, as is well known, pro-Erdogan protesters attacked and damaged a building. These incidents had led the European Union's foreign ministers, meeting in Bratislava on 3 September, to worry about an import of tensions into Belgium. Moreover, your government has warned – and rightly so – the Turkish authorities against such spillovers, saying that "Belgium will not accept an export of the tensions that are taking place in Turkey". I am not sure whether this appeal was heard or in any case fully heard. I would therefore, perhaps with hindsight, like to mention the follow-up to these threats. I say this right away: it is up to the local authorities - as mayor, it is also my responsibility to assume my responsibilities - to ensure the safety of places where people who are interested in this political and religious sensitivity may possibly be present. Nevertheless, can we have a state of affairs? Can you tell me today how many complaints have been filed for acts of threats related to alleged links with the Gülenist movement? Have the threats against these schools been reassessed? If so, should these threats be considered terrorist in nature or in any case criminal in nature? What is the OCAM's analysis of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u2	Mr Maingain, I can tell you that a number of complaints have been lodged with the police in Charleroi, Liège, Limburg, Antwerp and Ghent. In most cases, these are oral, written and physical threats, fire attempts and vandalism. The facts relating to the problem between Gülen and Erdogan are not included as such in the Federal Police data banks. These relate to Turkish issues in general. We didn't split out. Therefore, I cannot provide you with precise figures on the number of complaints filed. But recently, the national president of Fedactio has asked pro-Gülen supporters to no longer file a complaint with the police but to go directly through Fedactio's lawyer who will make a joint statement of the facts. There is an opportunity to file a complaint through Fedactio's lawyer. OCAM made an assessment of this issue on 22 August. The situation is constantly being monitored. A reassessment will be carried out if necessary and if further information is available. OCAM regularly monitors this file. The danger lies essentially at the level of public order with a risk of disturbance of the public order. The evaluation of the MACO on this subject has been classified and the elements of it cannot be made public. Nevertheless, I can give you the conclusion of this evaluation. I quote: "The most recent information is mainly reports and intimidation via social networks. Especially through Facebook, identities and addresses of possible Gülenist sympathizers are disseminated, whether or not accompanied by a call to undertake something against these people and/or organizations. In a number of countries, Gülenist schools have already opened their doors without significant incidents. Through social networks, it is relatively easy to spread radical and extreme ideas. A number of messages are also certainly intended to provoke, intimidate and provoke reactions. It remains difficult to estimate to what extent an opinion, reaction or post on social networks will actually lead to a willingness to act. The intimidating language and personal character of many of these messages are, of course, perceived in a very threatening manner to the target people. The official representatives of the Turkish diaspora in Belgium disapprove of the attempted coup d'état in Turkey and are officially opposed to violent actions that could discredit them. However, this does not mean that individuals or small groups with a more radical profile or youth are able to take advantage of the tense situation in order to clarify their point of view. In this context, confrontations can quickly lead to a disturbance of public order and, where appropriate, the use of physical violence cannot be excluded. Based on the analysis of likelihood and severity as well as the above comments, we assess the level of threat to medium-sized Gülenist-inspired schools, i.e. level 2". OCAM, during the monthly assessment of the general level of the threat in Belgium, also dated 22 August 2016, also recommended vigilance to the police areas concerned during the school year related to Gülen: "As a result of the general situation in Turkey, we draw attention to the re-entry of classes in schools related to Fethullah Gülen. There could be incidents to prevent children from entering these institutions." That was the situation in early September. Since then, I think it has calmed down and it is under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u3	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u4	Mr Minister, a whole bunch of legal documents regulates the administrative instructions for obtaining data from the population and foreign registers. In addition to the population regulations, the privacy legislation also applies. The reason for this is that the population register and the alien register constitute a processing of personal data. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on the acquisition of information from the population registers and the alien register, the College of Mayors and Ships is competent to decide on such applications. This can be done both by a general scheme and by an individual decision. In principle, the delivery of lists of persons from the population and foreigners register is prohibited. However, there are some restrictive exceptions which must be interpreted restrictively, both from the population regulation and the privacy law of 8 December 1992. For example, the prohibition does not apply to public authorities, public institutions, institutions of Belgian law which carry out tasks of general interest and do not have access to the National Register, foreign authorities, researchers, etc. For example, schools and associations may address their written questions to the College of Mayors and Ships. Once a decision has been taken by the College, the application shall be kept for a period of three years. I would like an answer to the following questions. Is there any effective control over the retrieval of lists from population records? Does the government have an insight into the number of lists requested and the reasons why they are requested? How does any control and follow-up take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u5	I can confirm that the College of Mayors and Ships is fully competent for issuing personal lists from the municipal population registers. These issues of personal lists are a processing of personal data to which privacy law applies with its basic rules, finality, proportionality and legitimacy. The precise explanations on the application of these regulations can be found in the General Teachings on keeping the population registers under the chapter on obtaining information from registers and in the Recommendation of 2 May 2012 of the Privacy Commission on obtaining information from the population registers. The Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on the acquisition of information from the population registers and the alien register does not lay down any specific regulatory provisions for the systematic control and retrieval of lists of persons issued by the Belgian municipalities by my department following a decision of the mayor's and ship's colleges. Consequently, the directives of the general rules apply here by decree on the supervision by the municipal council of decisions and decisions of the college of mayors and ships within the framework of municipal autonomy and of the general supervision regime of the municipalities, for which each region is fully competent. In addition, any citizen who considers that his personal data is included on a personal list that is contrary to the provisions of the said Royal Decree and the privacy law may lodge a complaint against it with the Privacy Commission or directly with his local prosecutor. This simply falls under the control of the local authorities exercised by the higher authorities. I have no specific powers in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It doesn't surprise me, actually. I was expecting it to go this way. I express this concern as mayor. Like the colleague next to me, you've also been mayor. You will not deny that there is a great demand for lists of personal data, because of all kinds of semi-governments and associations. My concern is not so much to keep an effective, high level of control of this, but at least to establish a register of persons in addition to the fact that lists are kept for three years, indicating what has been delivered, by whom it has been delivered, to whom it is concerned and with what objectives. This would help control and follow-up. I note that the pressure on the municipalities and colleges is very high on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the Flemish Firefighters Association wants better guidance for those willing to become firefighters. Since candidates are now left to their fate for the heavy selection tests, talent is chased away, a quote says. Especially the rigorous handiness test is a thorn in the eye. For example, a structural engineer recently did not even pass the technical admission test. Apparently, half the candidates drop out for the handy test. According to the Association of Flemish Firefighters, young people lose the sense to start training in this way. In my opinion, the tests are still necessary. A volunteer firefighter also needs practical insight and needs to reach the same level as a professional firefighter. We may ask ourselves whether the tests are being carried out in the best way possible. We cannot, of course, lose many volunteers or volunteers because of these tests. You have already responded to these messages by stating that videos are being made to better prepare candidates. First of all, are these videos already available? Secondly, will you evaluate the usefulness of the videos? Will you keep track and compare figures on the number of volunteers who pass the tests with and without preparation via the videos? Thirdly, are there any alternatives to tackling the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u8	Mr President, Mr Top, there is a clear film on the website www.ikwordbrandweer.be that shows what candidates for the federal fitness certificate can expect. No individual videos are made of each skill test, as a candidate can mimic the film in this way and this destroys the design of the test, in particular the test of skill. This could therefore give the wrong idea of the candidate's hand skills and knowledge, which are very important when exercising the profession of firefighter. Each fire school records by test, both cognitive and manual and physical, all the candidates' data and success rates. We are therefore keeping up with this on a statistical basis. Of all the candidates who have passed the proficiency test, 64 % is currently successful or two out of three. In a year and a half, 2 254 people have already passed all tests of the federal fitness certificate. The extent to which the graduates have been informed, whether or not via the clarifying film on the above website, is not measured. I also doubt the usefulness of this, because watching the movies undoubtedly contributes to better preparation, but it is not blissful for a hundred percent success rate. As indicated earlier, I am prepared to carry out an evaluation of all fitness attestations. Something like this may have to be done within a reasonable period of time. At the moment, I think it is too early to draw any final conclusions. If the success rates for the skill tests were to decrease, there might be the possibility of developing a course of basic tasks for candidates. In this way, candidates can become familiar with the usual materials and techniques, without having to practice the actual skill tests. In this way, a candidate could better prepare himself and demonstrate during the tests that he has sufficient manual skills to practice the profession of firefighter. I'm an expert myself. I didn't do all of them, but I did run some of the handy tests. Honestly, I don't think six years of technical school should be needed to pass those tests. However, many candidates stumble about the proper use of personal protective equipment. This is often easily soluble, but the fact that one is not alert is significant in itself. I had to mount an electrical socket as a test. This was fairly simple, but the safety regulations require gloves and glasses to be worn. If one does not know that, one can put that outlet together as well as possible, but then one has a problem with that test. When you look at that video, you are immediately reminded of it. The fact that people do not do so is, in itself, significant in a safety profession and requires a rematch, where they will do so. Most of those chores at home will not be done, but in a professional environment it is necessary. We monitor it. We also ask the local corps that send people there to remind them that the personal protective equipment must be used. These are rather simple things that do not cost time or money, but are rather sensitising in nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u9	Minister, I have to admit that, clumsy as I am, when I have to replace a socket at home, I also do not wear gloves and glasses, but I will switch off the electricity. I am pleased that you are prepared to carry out an evaluation over time on the increase or decrease of the success rates and any problems involved. A course of basic skills might also help with this. As you say, the question arises as to how to prepare for the tests. These are basic skills, the first indications on safeguards and so on, which may not really need to be taught, but which people do need to be reminded to prepare. I suppose there will be an evaluation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u10	Mr Minister, Article 24, § 11 of the Law of 26 March 2014 on the optimisation of measures for police forces states: "On organised economic and financial crime, fiscal and social fraud and ICT crime, detection units are created within the devolved judicial boards of Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi/Bergen, East Flanders and Liège, in charge of specialised investigations. In particular, they are charged to be part of mixed multidisciplinary research teams. A royal decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers may determine the detailed rules of coordination, management and deployment of effectives." I have the following questions. Is it true that the P Committee is currently examining the progress made in setting up these joint investigation teams? How far is this investigation going? Has that investigation been completed yet? What are the findings of the P Committee? Is the report delivered to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u11	Mr Top, I can confirm that the study by the P Committee is indeed under way. It's still going on, so I can't answer your second, third and fourth questions yet. The P Committee is a service of Parliament. I therefore assume that the reports drawn up by the Committee will be delivered to Parliament through the appropriate channels. I don't have any input myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u12	I have one more specific question. Do you have a look at the timing for the rounding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u13	Since it is a service which depends on Parliament, you must put this question to the President of Parliament and not to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u15	Minister, the police are buying the uniforms of the basic equipment for the operational staff through the framework agreement of the federal police. Due to discontent with the Ghent police zone about the comfort of the bottines, purchased through that framework agreement, it was decided not to order anymore from the federal police but to issue its own specifications for government contracts. This seemed a bit bizarre to me and that is why I have the following questions. How many of the 189 police zones buy parts of the basic uniform equipment outside the federal police framework agreement? What are the causes or what are the current defects in that basic equipment? Which parts of the basic equipment of the uniform can count on the least support from our police officers? I assume that complaints will be collected over time. Finally, do these deficiencies or shortcomings not make it necessary to revise the Federal Police Framework Agreement on a number of uniform pieces of basic equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u16	Mr Yüksel, I am aware of the dissatisfaction of the Genest police with regard to the bottines. This is not about the bottinekes they are talking about in Antwerp. This is indeed about footwear. In a test phase, they have been tested and approved by several operational police officers. So people don't just buy it. To answer your questions in a very specific way, I have provided you with a table. In that you can see, province by province, how many zones use these uniforms. Of the 189 zones there are 174, or 92 %. The management of Logistics has no knowledge of hidden defects or technical problems with one or more pieces of the basic equipment they offer. The documents produced by the beneficiary firm must comply with a specifications which are very detailed and binding, in particular with regard to the criteria and technical specifications. I can tell you that defining those technical specifications takes a great deal of time. The criteria drawn up on the basis of opinions from staff of the operational framework shall aim at meeting as objectively as possible the needs of the fully operational framework. In this way, the evaluation of the documents takes as little account as possible of the personal preference of one individual. The pieces of the basic equipment that are the least sold are the winter cap and the semi-long model dynamometer. In reply to your third question, it should first be mentioned that each piece of basic equipment purchased by the federal police for the integrated police is the subject of a specific public contract. When a contract is terminated and a new procedure for the next contract is launched, the document shall be evaluated with the users of the operational framework in order to provide the possible points of improvement. In addition, each procurement for a public contract of a piece of basic equipment shall consist of an evaluation committee composed of operational staff and technical specialists. The committee shall evaluate the conformity of tenders with the technical specifications. There is therefore no question of a review. It is part of the evaluation carried out at the end of each public contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u17	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. What is strange about the order ordered from Ghent is that a package is offered by the federal police, but that on the basis of complaints is tried to make its own tender. Can I assume that this is still happening on the budget of the federal police or are the own resources used for this? Can I also assume that the quotas made available to the federal police are not being used? This needs to be looked at in order, firstly, to be able to make efficient group purchases and, secondly, to allow all police areas to make use of the uniform offer offered by the federal police. In the other case, each zone can decide what it considers appropriate and what it does not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u18	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, I would like to comment on your reply. What's the advantage of the federal framework contract for the zones? That is that, although they pay their orders, they are offered better prices, because and masse is ordered. When the Ghent Corps, which counts a hundred men, require bottines, it is better to do so by means of a federal window contract, possibly ordering thousands of pairs. In that case, other prices will be offered. That's the advantage for the zones. They are free to make their own purchases outside the framework contract, albeit within the legislation. The advantage with the federal framework contract is that a volume discount can be obtained by the mass.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Emir Kir's 13714 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u20	Mr President, Minister, several months ago, the federal police signed a contract with Microsoft to acquire 14,461 licences for a period of 39 months, from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2018, for an amount of approximately 14.5 million euros, or more or less 305 euros per year and per user. I had already asked you about the reasons for this decision in my written question No. 753 of November 9, 2015. According to some of our computer scientists, the use of free software would have been just as effective and much less expensive. I also refer you to my question No 1577 of 2 August 2016, which is, unless I am mistaken, awaiting an answer. I mentioned technical problems and software compatibility following Microsoft's introduction into the police computer environment. So this is a contract that could be costly and pose difficulties on the ground. In this regard, I am told that not all the licences acquired have yet been installed. Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions. First, some echoes indicate that the policy would not have been licensed in respect of several Microsoft products prior to the conclusion of the contract. Is this information accurate? If so, how has this situation been resolved or not? My second question concerns the autonomy of the management of the police areas. As a reminder, the situation is as follows: a contract of EUR 14.5 million for the Federal Police and additional million if the areas are persuaded to follow the movement. Please note that local police must pay 385 euros per year per user for their licenses, compared to 305 euros for the federal police, which raises questions. In addition, in the long term, licences will have to be renewed on January 1, 2019. In December 2015, the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) presented his resignation to denounce the fact that local police had not been coordinated in the acquisition decision, thus undermining their managerial autonomy. Several areas indicate that they would not have committed had they known that such amounts were at stake. Today, opposition from police areas remains very strong, as funding is guaranteed until 2019 and they believe that once committed, it will no longer be possible for them to get out of this mechanism. The college of district chiefs of the district of Liège, Charleroi's chief of corps and others have therefore chosen to say no and to opt for a much less expensive alternative solution. In order to demonstrate it, they refused in mass – this also applies to Flanders – to activate their address "police.belgium.eu". However, on 24 August, you sent a letter to the police zones informing them that they were free to choose another email solution, but in this case, access to the SharePoint, or the documentation, would not be allowed to them. This practice is seen as a form of blackmail since it is not possible for them to dispense with information. Technically speaking, this would simply be an access opening that could be made for all local addresses via a single "police.belgium.eu" address, which is made available free of charge to police areas. On November 19, 2015, you were invited by Microsoft Europe's boss, along with the Commissioner General and the Director of Police Information. During this interview, the President of Microsoft Europe thanked the federal police for the trust given to the company's services. Our computer scientists and public servants are our first ICT resource and deserve to be trusted. As a reminder, both the documentation and the e-mail addresses of the federal police are free of charge. However, in order to justify the change in policy, it was said that the current formula required the use of consultants who were too expensive. So we can no longer work in-house and we buy all-made products from outside. Can you explain the circumstances under which the federal public authority contracted with Microsoft and describe the steps in this procurement? Is the ban on access to the SharePoint mentioned in your August 24 letter technical or political? At the district level of Liège, I am told that it is not technical. In other words, there is a prevailing feeling that the contract has been over a certain volume and that the costs must now be apportioned. What about it? Is the autonomy of police area management respected? Do the areas remain free to use free software at a lower cost or do they necessarily have to opt for the solution preferred by the federal authority? Finally, should we not have more confidence in our public servants and computer scientists who lack neither know-how nor skills? Some tell us that this ECS solution could lock the entire integrated police in a form of technological servitude unreasonable for our finances. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u21	Mr Demeyer, in response to your first question, as a reminder, the police's ICT strategy for the different choices of the future was prepared within the framework of the 2012-2015 National Security Plan by the federal police, together with the local police, and was validated by the Federal Police Steering Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. For many reasons of efficiency and effectiveness, it has been decided to opt for the purchase of solutions available on the market rather than for the development of these solutions internally. It is in this context that the federal police, faced with the need to replace their e-mail and document management solutions, as well as the need to acquire new tools for remote mobile work in the field, the increasingly complex management of their computer fleet and the need to improve the security of their architecture, have explored the market in order to find the most appropriate solutions. Thus, his choice was based on Microsoft's ECS solution. Federal police have used available federal government procurement. This is a public procurement by Smals. The use is therefore consistent and validated from a legal point of view by the necessary control bodies. Other federal public services also use the same contract. In response to your second question, I can say that the federal government's ambition is to provide all integrated police entities with a secure communications and integrated document management platform that includes, among other things, e-mail tools and SharePoint. This integration is carried out at the technical, budgetary and security level. The necessary budgets have been set aside under the interdepartmental provision for the fight against terrorism. The dimensioning of this platform and therefore the budget to be devoted to it will, however, depend on the police areas which will signify their agreement to access it. The authorities must, however, jointly respond to the risk and even the danger that non-adherence to this integrated platform would lead to the integrated functioning of the two levels of the police and its operationality. Finally, in answer to your last question, it is indeed up to us that not yet sufficiently informed computer scientists react in this direction. They often limit the continuation of ECS products to e-mails and SharePoint. The chosen formula, however, offers many more possibilities, such as working in mobile mode in the field and above all the security of the computer architecture of the entire integrated police made highly necessary, certainly since recent events. Hence, the federal government's fiscal initiative in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u22	I thank the minister for his answers. I may not have been paying enough attention, but I have not heard an answer to the question about access to the SharePoint for areas that would retain free software, since it does not pose a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u23	I think we need to act with common sense. We have proposed a platform, which we intend to expand in the future to become an i-Police platform. At that time, we will have to study on a case-by-case basis how to connect to the platform those who do not want to agree with the standards defined by the federal police, in terms of computer technology, connection, and also in terms of security. Because of course we want to have a secure environment. We will provide local police areas with our i-Police system. If you choose another system, connection and security costs will not be covered. We'll have to find an arrangement. The point is not to say that it is that and nothing else. We're not even going to review the connection possibilities. But it won't make life easier for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u24	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u25	Minister, as you know, two Belgian police officers were interrogated for several hours during the night of Tuesday 20 September to Wednesday 21 September by the French police, after crossing the border with asylum seekers. According to the press, French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve, very irritated by this incident, "would have wished to summon the Belgian ambassador to France". The reaction of the Belgian trade unions was not delayed and they unanimously criticized the disproportionate conditions under which the two policemen were treated: four hours of hearing without an interpreter (the police officers being Dutch-speaking) and without obtaining a copy of the statement they were required to make. This controversy leads me to ask you the following questions. How come the Belgian police officers didn't notice that they were crossing the border? Is this really a matter of a few meters in a secondary street, as you explained in the media? What explains the apparently muscular or disproportionate conditions of the treatment of Belgian police officers by their French counterparts? Have you discussed this with Minister Cazeneuve? Did you complain to the minister? Is there a need to complement existing memoranda of understanding in order to avoid such incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u26	Minister, I will skip the introduction and immediately ask my questions. Did the Tournai agreements provide for procedures to deal with such problems? What exactly is laid down in the border agreements? If nothing has been decided, there is a need for a clear procedure. How do you think this procedure can be implemented? Has a new consultation on border issues been envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u27	Mr President, I am not going to go back to history. Some might find something to smile at. But this event shows above all the operational difficulties faced by border police areas for their daily work, as well as the difficulties of communication between Belgian police and French police. The Tournai II agreements, however, were intended to facilitate this joint work. There is probably still work to be done on this issue in order to achieve a satisfactory level of cooperation. What contact did you have with your French counterpart following this incident? What common conclusion could you draw from this? Do you intend to deepen the agreements of Tournai II to allow the establishment of a procedure to avoid, in the future, this kind of episode that could be described as burlesque?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u28	Mr Delannois, I share your word "burlesque". Mr Vanden Burre, in the neighbourhood where the events took place, the border between Belgium and France is not clearly marked. There's no more lines on the road. As I said in the press, just a few meters on a secondary street. The evidence is based only on this and it has pissed off some people on the French side. That's your first question. I will answer the other questions in a grouped way. The Belgian and French authorities met on 22 September to discuss the matter. This is an isolated and involuntary incident. The punctual incident cannot and will not hypothesize the good cooperation between Belgium and France. Both countries commit themselves to continue to follow the procedures correctly and, where appropriate, adjust them accordingly. Not only was the incident discussed, but also the border issue as a whole. There is a letter in preparation to the Commissioner-General and the Permanent Committee of the Local Police explaining the incident, explaining the sovereignty of a country and explaining the procedure by DVZ: what is a non-admission at the border, what is a remise à la frontière and what to do in an administrative handling and meaning of an order to leave the territory? The letter will be distributed to the primary services of the federal and local police. The consultations on 22 September took place between the homologous services of both countries and not at ministerial level. Mr Demon, as regards your first question and the third question by Mr Delannois, the Treaty of Tournai of 18 March 2013 contains no provisions enabling police forces in one country, on their own initiative, without prior agreement from the other country, to re-transfer illegal residents. In the treatment of the Tournai II agreements, there is no provision for police officers from one country to enter the territory of another country. Mixed patrols may exist, but the intervention must stop at the border. It is the same thing to drive refugees to the border: the police can go as far as the border but not as far as it is. The French do not want to change this rule, otherwise they must amend their Constitution. This is a huge procedure, even if for both countries this situation is very damaging. That also explains why they have reacted to a rather banal incident that I feel to have been forced to do so. Mr Demon, I come to your second question. Article 21 of the Tournai Convention provides that the competent officials may enter the territory of another Party in order to permit the implementation of administrative measures for the expulsion of persons, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the competent administrative authorities. In other words, there must be a coordinated action between the competent administrative authorities. Moreover, the Convention provides that the crossing of the border must be notified in advance to the competent common centre for police and customs cooperation, CCPD in Tournai. That had not happened here, because they accidentally crossed the border. The same Article also states that, during the performance of those tasks, the officials concerned may carry and use their service uniform and regulatory weapons and equipment, in accordance with the provisions of the so-called Prüm Council Decision, and may exercise coercion over the persons entrusted with their surveillance, for the duration necessary for the transfer of such persons to the competent authorities of the other parties. Finally, the Convention also contains the necessary provisions relating to the protection and assistance and civil and criminal liability of cross-border officials during the performance of such contracts. I can also add that, personally, I did not have any contacts on this point with my counterpart, Mr Cazereuve, either by telephone or by appointment because things had been resolved at this meeting on 22 September. On the margins of our meeting at European level, we are going to talk about it, but I have not formally contacted Mr Cazeneuve either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u29	Thank you, Minister. The first point is burlesque or even surreal, as the French like to describe us. I take note of that. More seriously, however, on the treatment of police officers, which is the most prominent aspect of the reaction of the unions, why were they treated in this way? You say the French were apparently upset, but we're talking about four or five hours of muscular interrogation. That's what we read in the press. I don't know how far this has gone, but if that is the case, beyond the quarrel around the border and the few metres, there is a treatment between cross-border colleagues which is still challenging. It was on this point that I wanted to know whether we had received explanations from the French side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u30	No, I got an explanation from the chief of zone of the police officers concerned. It wasn't as violent as it was claimed. They were taken to the gendarmerie office and completed the formalities, but they were not ill-treated or arrested for four hours. That is not the case at all. That's the report I received from the area manager.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u31	Good, that's reassuring! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u32	Minister, just to be clear, the document that will be distributed after the meeting on 22 September will not give instructions to prevent such stupidity? Since there is nothing in the Constitution about this, that cannot really be resolved. Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u33	To conclude a treaty between two countries, we need two countries. On the French side, that is not what we want. Governments are also changing. So the debate on this issue will never be closed. We'll see, but right now, France's position is what it is. In any case, if a government, whatever, wants to allow such a thing, the Constitution must be revised, and that, as you know, is not a procedure that one does overnight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u34	Minister, you say this is an isolated and involuntary case. I agree with you: this is a small street near the border. However, you should be aware that the small streets adjacent to the border between Belgium and France are relatively numerous. This isolated case should not multiply. You say that this will not hypothecate collaboration. Of course, it is a good thing: it would be all that is missing. You're talking about mixed patrols. For now, it is possible and the agreement of Tournai II allowed it. Maybe common sense could take precedence. I agree with you quite well when you say that the Constitution must be changed, even if it is difficult. It's not necessarily impossible. You say you didn't see Mr. Cazeneuve. Maybe this would be an opportunity. If you meet him, tell him what all this can lead to. The burlesque can come. Europe itself is being ridiculed; it does not need to be ridiculed, especially when it comes to security. We should use this example to move forward. For your information, I can tell you that the gates of the City Hall of Tournai are open to you for agreements III, IV, V and VI if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament 13823 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u36	Mr President, Minister, since 1 January 2015, the reform of the aid zones has entered into force and 34 relief zones have their own legal personality. This also means, among other things, that the zones must have their own financial policies. The income comes mainly from municipal donations and the important federal donations. This year, for the first time, Belfius has incorporated the figures of the relief zones in the annual report on the financial situation of local authorities. The figures show a large difference between Flanders and Wallonia in per capita expenditure. In Flanders this is 79.6 euros compared to 65.3 euros in Wallonia. There is also a difference in debt expenditure, i.e. EUR 10 million in Wallonia compared to EUR 4 million in Flanders. Hence my questions. Firstly, do you have any idea why the per capita financial contribution in Wallonia is higher than in Flanders? Secondly, does this have an impact on the distribution of the federal donation? Thirdly, and for the sake of refreshment, how is the federal dotation determined by aid zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u37	Mr President, Mr Metsu, as regards your first question, I read in the Belfius study that, according to the 2016 budgets, per capita expenditure is EUR 79.6 in Wallonia and EUR 65.3 in Flanders. So that's the other way around than the numbers you give. If I may base myself on the study of Belfius, part of the difference in financial contributions can be explained largely by the fact that the areas in Wallonia have increased staff expenditure, i.e. EUR 51.3 per inhabitant in Flanders and EUR 61.1 per inhabitant in Wallonia. That is already a difference of 10 euros. This is because the organizational model in Wallonia is rather based on professional firefighters, compared to Flanders. Flanders makes relatively more use of volunteers than Wallonia. I also need to nuance the figures from the Belfius study. Contrary to what the study mentions, the federal base amount in 2016 is 32 million euros. Of these, the Flemish zones receive EUR 19 450 000 and the Walloon areas receive EUR 12 623 000. The additional federal funding amounts to EUR 105 000 000 and is distributed in the following way: the Flemish areas receive EUR 66 300 000 and the Walloon areas receive EUR 38 750 000. The federal donations are divided between the zones on the basis of different parameters. For the basic dose, these were the residential population, the active population, the cadastral income, the taxable income and finally the recurrent and punctual risks. The additional amount, on the other hand, was calculated on the basis of the end-of-life parameters, the mandate of the zone commander, the harmonisation of the status and the operational functioning of the zone. Contrary to the parameters of the basic dose, it cannot be denied that the parameters of the additional dose have a link with the personnel aspect, which covers 78% of total operating expenditure. My cabinet and my administration are now calculating the additional costs of the reform, in particular for the staff aspect. Depending on this analysis, I will be able to check whether the difference in organisational model and financial contribution per inhabitant actually has an impact on the distribution mechanism of the federal additional donation and, if so, to what extent. This study is still under way, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for all the figures and for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a question I had already asked you in 2015 about fire detectors. There was a shadow zone around the regulation. The wired or non-wired nature of the facilities was particularly problematic, for example for some traders in Horeca whose non-wired facilities were not received by the competent bodies. In 2015, you informed me that the standard in question would be the subject of a proposal for amendment by an ad hoc working group mandated by the Committee on Standardization. This proposal for revision had been accepted by the NBN Board of Directors. These two draft standards were then the subject of a public consultation phase. During this period, everyone could comment on these new projects. Mr Minister, it seems that more than a year and a half later, the interpretation and, above all, the practical application of this standard is still a problem. Some facilities are still struggling to be received, some facilities are still struggling to have their fire detection systems recognized. What conclusions have been drawn following the public investigation phase of these proposed new standards? Have these changes become effective? If so, have these changes had a positive impact in the context of the situation I described to you in my previous question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u40	Mr Clarinval, I would like to point out that the Belgian technical standards are developed, monitored and developed by the Office of Standardization (NBN), which is an autonomous institution with legal personality. Federal authorities, including the Federal Internal Public Service, are not responsible for developing or revising these technical standards. The Standards Commissions and the Bureau of Standardization (NBN) develop these standards independently. They themselves collect the comments and judge how they are taken into account. Several remarks will be rejected. Others will be adopted. Still others will require further analysis. I am therefore absolutely not responsible for the development or content of these standards. I therefore believe that it is not appropriate for me to present here an analysis of all the comments as you have requested. For information, however, I can confirm that the NBN S 21-100-1 and NBN S 21-100-2 standards have been published in the meantime, but they do not contain any specific requirements for wireless detection. The reliability of wired and wireless systems must be identical. Wireless systems must be neither more nor less reliable than wired systems. This is why it is important to examine first and foremost how wireless detectors can guarantee the same reliability as conventional cable systems. The Committee on Standardization has set up a special working group to check, for various fault and fault scenarios, whether these do not lead to an unacceptable malfunction of the wireless fire detection system. This group has already made good progress in its work, but has not yet finalized it. In the near future, requirements will likely be included in BMS 21-101 for wireless fire detection facilities. The others may also be approved provided, of course, that their reliability is sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u41	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I will not blame you for any responsibility in this normalization. Secondly, I take note that the working group responsible for checking the reconciliation of wireless and wired devices has not yet reached its conclusions. Once its investigation is complete, we will be able to conduct the audit. Having said that, I think it is relatively urgent that we move forward. Indeed, several traders and independents remain unclear so that they could lose patience and experience problems with fire departments if they do not quickly obtain a clear answer. I will therefore wait until this working group has delivered its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u42	Mr President, Minister, in January of this year, the Antwerp police area launched its own recruitment campaign to recruit police officers interested in a job with the Antwerp police. Like other zones, the Antwerp police area had specific needs and was asking party to select and recruit staff themselves. This was done according to the same standards and under the same conditions as the federal police used to recruit people for the integrated police. This was a pilot project which might subsequently be extended to other areas. This project was intended to enable zones to recruit themselves and thus remedy the shortage of local areas. Mr Minister, has this pilot project of the Antwerp police area been evaluated? What are the findings? During that project, could the Antwerp police zone recruit more staff according to its needs than when the federal police are responsible for recruitment? How many people were recruited during that project? Will that project be extended to other police areas? If so, which zones will be eligible to recruit themselves? Are there any guidelines in this respect? Are there any other areas that might be interested in recruiting themselves? If so, how many zones have already asked a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u43	Mr President, Minister, it will not surprise you that I would like to take a Ghent approach to this question. We know the project by now. After six months, the project would be evaluated. At the beginning of September, during a security debate in Ghent in the presence of Mayor Termont, you stated that Ghent could also join that project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u45	This was recently discussed in the city council in Ghent. The mayor said he hadn't received any formal confirmation from the Home Office. That is why I would like to ask you whether a confirmation has been sent to Ghent in the meantime with the possibility of entering that project. Of course, what is the mid-term evaluation of the project? Which other center cities have formally shown their interest and have received confirmation that they are eligible to join the project? Not insignificant, because there is a lot of confusion about this: what are the conditions for entering the project? For the sake of clarity, zones wishing to do so will themselves cover part of the cost of recruiting the new recruits. What are the conditions for entering the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u46	Mr President, I had identical questions at the meeting of 21 September. In my imperfect generosity I will answer, because I also think the project is important enough and certainly the cities of Bruges and Ghent should not be out of place in the list. I shall therefore be very happy to answer your questions. Mr Demon, as regards your first question, on 28 October 2015, I did indeed explain this in the Committee on the Interior. The project will be evaluated as a whole after two years. After two years, the final evaluation will follow, but an interim evaluation will follow after six months, as I said. We did it this summer. At the end of August 2016, I received a delegation from the local police of Antwerp and the federal police twice to discuss the mid-term evaluation of the project of the Antwerp police zone. We are talking about recruitment, selection and training for greater diversity. One of you, I think, Mr Demon, said at one point that it is a question of recruiting more people, but the approach is above all more diversity, and in particular to recruiting people from the neighbourhoods themselves. The discussion shows that the project and the way it was designed will produce good results, but will also have a major impact on the Antwerp police and on the federal entity Service recruitment and selection, not least for the start-up phase and for the resources that the project requires. The project "own recruitment' was launched in autumn 2015 to meet the specific needs of the local police in Antwerp. It was about overcoming the imminent retirement wave, recruiting within all levels of education, bringing more diversity into the corps as a reflection of the Antwerp urban context, shortening the lead time of the recruitment process and increasing the success rate. The intention was to attract a hundred candidates to start their training. The following findings emerged from the mid-term evaluation. Until last year, the average selection period lasted between eight and twelve months. This became, in (...) months, half to one third before the training could begin. The preliminary pathways to accompany candidates are paying off. The success rate is 4 % higher than the success rate of the selections organized federally. The limited difference is partly explained by a significant number of candidates who have followed vocational education. So there is also a serious increase in the diversity of education levels. Candidates from the city or the province of Antwerp are mainly attracted. That was also explicitly the intention. The project was positively experienced by all involved partners, the local police Antwerp, the federal police but also Campus Vesta, i.e. the police school in Ranst of the province of Antwerp. The campaign will be re-launched giving priority to a digital platform to register and process candidates. In the pilot phase, they developed that digital platform. The next campaign will be able to use it and will also simplify administrative handling. Let me give you some concrete figures. Between the start of the recruitment campaign and now more than 800 candidates have signed up for the job of inspector with the local police Antwerp; 27 percent have a migration background, 23 percent are women, 80 percent are from the province of Antwerp, of which 30 percent are from the city of Antwerp itself. The average age is 26 years. That's not different from federal recruitment, the average age is usually 26 years. Thirty prospective inspectors started Campus Vesta on 1 September 2016. The first class has 4 women and 26 men; 14% have a migration background, mainly Moroccan or Turkish origin. As far as your other questions are concerned, from this mid-term evaluation, I have asked the two partners to brief the local corps on what this means and to examine how new projects can be cleared up. I'd like to give the two presentations I've had from the local and federal police first for all interested police forces. I just want them to share their experience. Of course, small police zones can't handle this. We are effectively looking at urban corps for that. I'll come to the next step. In Flanders, in the context of spatial planning, the concept of outlawed municipalities has been developed. If municipalities comply with a large number of cases, they are also audited on this basis, so that they can, within a certain framework, issue building permits, for example, and are not subject to building permits per building permit by the higher government. I've asked the federal police to do the same, not with the same terminology, though. I have asked to see what is expected of a local corps, what competences it should have in the house and what means it should make available in order to do such a thing successfully and not to go to some sort of "Police Guardian Zone" to a sort of "Police Guardian Zone." We will work out this method and present it to the interested police areas and then see how we can achieve this. It's a process in the making, but the next step is to bring the interested zones. I've gotten that question from most major police zones. I could give a list, but Ghent, the Brussels areas, Liège, Bruges and Vilvoorde are among them. It's a lot of police zones. At the time when we will set the standards for an emancipated police area on recruitment, a number of zones will probably say that the federal level can do it. It also requires a commitment. When one sees what Antwerp has thrown at it, it requires a certain commitment, including from the local zone. They are satisfied with the results. So it's a win-win situation. It is also a work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u47	You bring a lot of positive news, but I may have misunderstood you at one point. The recruitment takes eight months federally and four months in Antwerp. That's a huge difference. Is there a reason for that? Is it the procedures, the motivation or the number of people? I hear from people who take part in the tests that the big problem is that it takes a long time to know whether or not they have succeeded. When I hear here that Antwerp goes from eight to four months, I wonder what the reason is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u48	The reason is just the number of files. If one is recruiting federally, then there are a lot of files and then one has to treat them all on an equal basis. If one can delegate part of it to a zone, then one has fewer files to deal with and one can go through faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u50	During the previous round of questions, I had suggested that the presentation I received should also be made before the committee, so that you would have a good understanding of the dos-and-don-ts in that case. I offered that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u51	Yes, you did. We have taken this with us and will look into how and when we can best organise it. It's on the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u52	Minister, for the sake of completeness, you have also confirmed to Ghent that it can join the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u53	The first step is to make the presentation for the zones. It's not a matter of getting in or not yet. We would first like to present the evaluation to everyone who is interested and then see who is still interested in working further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u54	Diversity and the right reflection of a city within a corps is an important matter. International studies show that this brings added value to cities in terms of security, but that it also makes the police system work well, that it provides good responses from citizens and that it ensures good cooperation with them. That road show is important to explain those elements and their evaluation. For my group, it is also a very positive project that can bring added value to police forces in the centre cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u55	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, by the Act of 30 December 2009, the legislator had authorized the police zones to apply for their possible merger on a voluntary basis, before 1 January 2011. To the best of my knowledge, only two zones would have requested their merger in order to make them one within the deadlines set, namely the areas of Lanaken and Maasmechelen. This merger was formalized by the Royal Decree of 24 May 2011. Moreover, on 21 April of this year, our assembly authorized until 2018 the police areas to "demerger" among others on the condition that the communes who have left one area join another. Today, in the context of this redesign of police zones, the question of the merger of certain areas comes back in a felted way. He said that a new law of the same type as the one in 2009, allowing for new mergers on an ad hoc basis, would be under consideration. Minister, are your services actually working on such a project with the aim of reducing the number of police areas for the country as a whole from 196 today to 60 in the future? Are you aware of any requests within police areas to go in this direction? Will the voluntary basis of the decision be retained or will the police areas be pushed to merge to achieve the objective? Will the distribution of staff be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u56	Mr President, Mrs de Coster, to be clear, I would like to point out that there are currently not 196 but 189 police areas. Mergers have already occurred in recent months or years. First, chapter 8 of the Act establishing a two-tiered integrated police service of 7 December 1998 provides for the amendment of the delimitation of police areas. This is provided for in articles 91/11 to 91/15. In this chapter, article 91/12 clearly states that the communal councils of the communes forming part of the old police zones concerned with the modification of the delimitation of the police zones shall submit a joint reasoned request to that effect to the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. The voluntary basis for the decision is therefore enshrined in the law. The possibility of demerger, on the other hand, is allowed until 2018. In response to your second question, the possibility of defusion has not yet been used and is not currently being considered by the police areas. Where appropriate, the distribution of staff will also be based on negotiations. La seule fusion envisagée pour le moment est la fusion des zones MidLim (Mid-Limburg) (Genk, As, Opglabbeek, Zutendaal, Houthalen-Helchteren) et Noordoost Limburg (Bocholt, Bree, Kinrooi, Meeuwen-Gruitrode) aux environs de l'été 2017. I had contact with the police areas. Either they were demerging an area to merge with two other areas, or they were putting two areas together. They chose the second option. This is the one that I favour because it becomes a large police area that includes many municipalities, including Genk, which is not such a big city.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u57	Minister, you have responded well to my expectations. I guess the rumor comes from what you just explained. This is a very special context. You do not have the ambition or the will today to force the police zones to merge if they do not wish or to change their operation completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u58	Minister, in a circular dated May 24, 2016, you wanted to warn emergency areas of the preparation of a bill to end the possibility of 24-hour shifts. You have put forward social, health, organisational and legal arguments. While these arguments are understandable and relevant, many emergency stations remain very attached to the 24-hour shift. We are faced with a difficulty when, in the new creation of rescue zones, old posts work with different shifts. What was the status of the bill you announced in your May 24, 2016 circular? What kind of transitional measures do you plan in your bill? How would the length of on-call leave be managed in this context? Finally, in order to be sure that you have correctly interpreted your circular of 24 May, do you confirm to me that a change to a 24-hour shift for an emergency station currently operating under a 12-hour shift is not possible? You are aware that trade union organisations do not agree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u59	Mrs de Coster, I have already had the opportunity before this committee to answer two questions concerning this circular of 24 May 2016; the first time on 22 June, following a question by Mrs Matz, the second on 13 July, following a question by Mr Blanchart. With regard to your first question, I explained to Mr Blanchart that there was no legal emergency to put an end to the possibility of maintaining a 24-hour shift work regime for emergency stations where it was already applicable before the crossing into the emergency zone. I mentioned that before negotiating a possible regulatory project with the partners (the trade unions, the Unions of cities and municipalities and the federations of firefighters), it was necessary first to determine the new limit which would be subject to negotiation and therefore to surround oneself with expert opinions on the welfare at work. The same applies to transitional measures. In accordance with what I had announced, a first contact was made between my administration and the experts of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation in order to set up a technical working group on the subject. With regard to your second question, I would like to remind you, as Mrs Matz did, that I adopted my circular of 24 May 2016, following the desire of some relief zones to extend the 24-hour shift work regime to emergency posts other than those to which this regime applied prior to the passage into the emergency zone. In this circular, I explain the reasons why the plan to extend the 24-hour shift system is clearly incompatible with an approach to social progress, raises questions about safety and well-being at work, is contrary to the Belgian State's international commitments and violates the standstill principle. For the aspect of well-being at work, many scientific studies show the absolute harmfulness of the 24-hour shift, but the relative harmfulness of the shift should be examined in relation to 8-, 12- or 16-hour shift, for example. That is the purpose of the working group that I referred to. In the meantime, the precautionary principle is required in the emergency areas. From a legal point of view, it is clear from the European Social Charter that a daily working time exceeding 16 hours must be considered unreasonable and contrary to the commitments made under that Charter. At the same time, in the matters covered by article 23 of the Constitution, which deals, inter alia, with the right to just working conditions, the Constitutional Court has enshrined the principle of standstill and clearly prohibits, according to case law and doctrine, a significant reduction in the protection afforded by the regulations prior to its amendment. The change from 12 hours a day to 24 hours a day is clearly a significant regression that could be sanctioned by the Council of State or courts and tribunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u60	Minister, thank you for these answers. I got all the information I wanted. In addition, I have received an answer to my question No 13969. Therefore, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u61	Mr President, Minister, as you know, it has been some time since the Americans complained about the too low safety of our nuclear sites and about the risk associated with the use of highly enriched uranium in Mol or Fleurus. Their fear can be understood, given the general context: the sabotage in Doel 4, the departure for Syria of people who have worked in the Doel power station, the discovery of videos in terrorists, etc. All this has only reinforced the legitimate American apprehensions. In an open letter sent to the Secretary of State for Energy, many American experts expressed their concerns in this regard, recalling that, at the 2012 Seoul Summit, Belgium had committed itself to the withdrawal of CEN and IRE from highly enriched uranium and to low enriched uranium by 2015. Clearly, this commitment has not been met. Minister, when can the commitment that only low-enriched uranium will be used be definitively respected? What is your reaction to these recent American fears? We have already had an opportunity to address this issue, but I wanted to re-examine it with you to see if a specific date had been agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u62	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the CEN and IRE sites enjoy the same physical protection as nuclear power plants. The AFCN ensures that each nuclear site meets the safety and security standards it has imposed and has an effective security system to deal with theft, attempted break-in, etc. As with all nuclear sites, military personnel are present at CEN and IRE sites. Without making any compromises on nuclear safety, Belgium intends to discontinue the use of highly enriched uranium as soon as technically and economically feasible. We must be aware that we must guarantee the supply of medical isotopes essential for cancer screening in Belgium and throughout the world. The research programmes necessary for this conversion have been carried out within CEN and IRE for many years in collaboration with the relevant US authorities, such as the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). However, it is wrong to say that the date of 2015 had been set as the final date. The CEN confirms that they have worked for years on conversion with the Americans, but that there is no conversion for 2022, at least, because all the recipes used of low enriched uranium (LEU) do not yet allow the conversion of the Belgian reactor 2 (BR2). Conversion to LEU targets during IRE installation is progressing and high-enriched uranium (HEU) targets will gradually be replaced by LEU targets in the following years. The LEU authorisation procedure is under way at the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u63	Mr Minister, as I understand it, Fleurus will take several more years, but without any specific delay. And for Mol, it's not until 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u64	It is not possible to reconvert the BR2 until 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u65	Yet it was in 2012 that commitments were made in Seoul. You say that the date of 2015 was not set, that it was just a goal. However, when we look at the time it takes, we have a real problem with what the Americans want. You were present at the Washington Summit when the Americans and the Nobel Prize scientists recalled the need to stop. They demand that this happen as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u66	This response is the result of a consultation with the Americans. The National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) is aware and is conducting studies with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u67	You say there are economic reasons for feasibility. You've always had the line of saying that economics is on the backlines, after security and safety. I have the impression that here we are not quite in this classic balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u68	It is clear that we do not want to play with security. In the standards that are prepared, we can continue, but we have also made a commitment to move from HEU to LEU as quickly as possible, while remaining in the safety standards. Secondly, the economic parameters come after the safety standards. We must not go faster than necessary. From an economic point of view, we need this reactor. We will make the change as soon as possible, but it must be feasible, which is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u69	I repeat that I am concerned about the contribution of economic factors. On the other hand, I remain dubious with regard to your answer as far as Mol is concerned. Indeed, you mentioned 2022. So stay six more years. In addition, you have not given any details about Fleurus since you spoke of "a few years". These delays seem to me to be very long when it comes to security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u70	The newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws on 22nd September mentioned the need for a new construction of buildings for 10,000 problematic barrels containing nuclear waste. Can you make the point of the situation both on the extent of the problem (number of drums, volume and extent of deviation from the standard) and on its origins: is it a chemical reaction, a nuclear reaction? Can you also provide an update on the proposed solution? Can you clarify whether this is a temporary solution or a definitive solution? What is this solution? Will these deviant drums eventually join the surface storage? How will the evolution of drums be monitored? We're talking about surveillance by cameras. Do you confirm these elements? Who is responsible for the costs of this unplanned management? In addition, in the early 2000s there were talk of other problematic casks. From memory, they were bitumen drums that also overflowed. Is there a link between these phenomena? What are the differences in causes, scope and solutions? Can you also take advantage of this opportunity to make the topo about how this older problem is managed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u71	Mr Nollet, the drums mentioned in the 22 September 2016 edition of Het Laatste Nieuws are drums produced on the Doel site and containing resins and concentrates immobilized in a concrete matrix. The problem was due to the reaction called alkali-silice or RAS in the specialized literature. It is a chemical reaction specific to concrete and foreign to the radionuclides contained in the waste; this reaction is characterized by an expansive gel formation. Currently, an overflow phenomenon has been observed in 22 Belgoprocess barrels, but all the drums produced are likely to be affected, i.e. a total of about 10,000 barrels. Most of these drums have a capacity of 400 litres. I'm going to build the new building. This is in fact a temporary solution intended to isolate drums potentially affected from others so that overflows cannot contaminate other drums. The concept presented by BP ONDRAF provides for surveillance of drums by camera, and the removal of the gel if the overflow and the amount of frost inside the drums are too large. This concept is currently being pre-concerted between AFCN and BP ONDRAF and still needs to be finalized. The application for authorisation is not expected until the beginning of next year. The drums potentially affected by the RAS cannot be accepted for a surface deposit solution unless the experimental evidence is provided that they are not affected by the RAS and are not sensitive to it. Standardized tests exist in this area. It is the responsibility and responsibility of ONDRAF to establish a definitive solution for the storage of these drums. The PSAN is not competent to determine who will assume financial responsibility for these costs. According to the daily article, it is Electrabel who would bear these costs. The origin of the problem of bitumen leaks is quite different and the formation of gas here would be due to radiolysis. To date, some 30 overflowing drums have been discovered. The AFCN ensures the safe storage of these drums. It is the competence and responsibility of ONDRAF to establish a definitive solution for the final storage of these drums.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u72	Minister, you say in the first part of your answer that potentially all drums can be affected. Potentially, of course! We'll keep an eye on this. The second part deals with the thirty drums that are already identified as such. Beyond these to say the least, this shows that the situation of nuclear waste is not stable at the moment. Things continue to evolve and, if all these drums are to be monitored, I suppose we will be fixed before it is imagined to store them in a deep geological repository. You say that studies are under way to validate it, etc. However, what I find is that all these chemical or radiological events, depending on whether they are the first or the second case, are elements that were not taken into account when it was imagined that these wastes could be placed in drums. This is where there are many uncertainties and sometimes very rapid decisions in the nuclear sector in relation to developments that are not yet under control, as regards the choice of geological deposition or the postponement of the decision. In view of the evolution of the drums at present, we cannot say that we control exactly what we are going to put in the deep deposits. I'm not worried in the short term because you say the situation is being analysed. I am concerned because this was not originally planned and because these are phenomena that are clearly taking place before our eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u73	Mr President, Minister, my question goes back to September. We haven't been able to treat her since. On 7 September, the Tihange 1 power plant was shut down following a problem during a civil engineering operation at the site of the nuclear power plant to build a building to allow the rise of Tihange 2 operating elements. If my information is correct – as I already said on 21 September – concrete that had been injected into the ground by a subcontractor has slipped into an unplanned path and caused the lifting of several centimetres of the building slab ensuring the ultimate security of the Tihange 1 unit. The plant had to be stopped as a matter of urgency and, since 7 September, examinations had been carried out to check whether the damage was repairable and, if so, when the plant could be restarted. What results, even provisional, give the stability studies that have been initiated? What is the extent of the damage? According to information provided to me, the subcontractor would have sank four to five times more concrete than was intended and necessary. Do you confirm that? Who is this subcontractor? Is this a language problem? Were people competent? Do you also confirm that the importance of this error makes it almost impossible to repair this building? The Soir du 5 octobre was "Grosse Uncertainty on the Future of Tihange 1". Despite this, as usual, the company continues to evoke a possible revival of the plant. Initially, the date of September 11 was announced. Two days later, this date was extended to 30 September. On 16 September, the resumption date was again postponed. It was on 20 November that was now mentioned. Can you confirm that the plant will actually be restarted by that date at the latest? All this has an impact on the bill since, in the meantime, you have closed other power plants - our gas plants are closed. There's really a problem, but I want to have full clarity on the possibility of restarting this power plant. It has been almost a month and a half since the analyses were conducted. I suppose you have at least the first elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u74	Mr Nollet, the Tihange 1 reactor is at a standstill and will remain so until all questions relating to its safety following the event on 7 September have received satisfactory answers. The Nuclear Safety Authority and Electrabel will take all the time necessary to establish the conditions for a safe start of the unit. No deadline can be set. The expertise of the event is still ongoing. On the one hand, it aims to identify the causes and, on the other, to assess the real and complete extent of the damage. For root causes, as for each incident, the operator is given reasonable time to produce an analytical document. It is therefore premature to mention the results. In terms of damage, visual observations show cracks at different locations on the building's ground floor slab and damage to at least one safety equipment. Although the structural integrity of the building does not appear to be visually impacted, it is necessary to wait for the completion of the expertise to ensure the integrity of the plant in normal operation or in an accidental situation. Contrary to the information that came back to you, there were no injections four or five times greater than what was planned. In fact, there is an overconsumption of the order of 16% - which is considered acceptable in this type of construction site. Repairs, identification of root causes and necessary action are, of course, prerequisites for restarting the reactor. As the investigation has not yet been completed, it is difficult to predict dates. Electrabel is free to do so, but the AFCN and my services must first assess the situation in order to ensure safety and avoid the recurrence of such an incident. I hope that the restart will take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u75	Minister, I am particularly surprised. You say the gap is 16% and it's acceptable. This means that normally this should not result in the closure of the plant. There, I cannot understand why an acceptable overconsumption leads to a closure, which lasts for a month and a half and which may be extended until the end of November, and investigations which are not yet known when they will be completed. The specifications may have provided for this over-consumption, but there are still controls. I am surprised that it is so little and acceptable. I do not understand the consequence of that. If this is predictable, it cannot lead to consequences such as closure. We're in the nuclear sector, we're not pouring concrete into a parking lot. How can this kind of accident happen? We had power plants that are microfasculated, and now we have power plants that are macrobetonated. You don't commit to this plant reopening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u76	The use of this concrete has been made in acceptable standards. This means that there may be other reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u77	Soil uplift may not be related to this overconsumption of 16% concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u78	We must complete the investigation to find out the reasons and then correct it. I don't set a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u79	I get it. I thought it was stronger than the 16 percent. What would these other elements be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u80	I'm not a technician. I'm waiting for the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u81	There is no time limit for the investigation. I'll put the question back to you next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked three questions about this company located in the Seneffe zoning, not far from Fleurus. At our last exchange on 21 September, about the situation of the company EZB, your answer was: "Mr. Nollet, honestly, I share your analysis and will personally deal with these issues, with a view to changing the situation or taking other steps. Like you, I find this permanent situation unacceptable." I wanted to go back to the subject to see if you have already been able to put in place elements to put an end to this situation, that you, too, consider it unacceptable, and, if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u83	Mr Nollet, as I said, we contacted the firm concerned. We set a date, November 8, so that I could discuss the situation with management on the spot. That's a pretty brief answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u84	Minister, I'll ask you after November 8, but I appreciate that you're going to talk to the company's management. I will give you some elements of my reflection, to eventually feed the preparation of your file. EZB seems to me to be trying to save time. It is a project, as filed, farfelu, the production of gallium 68. This is supposed to be done by a single consultant whose company has been in virtual bankruptcy for several years. It's a SPRL in Chaumont-Gistoux. Then, perhaps, they are waiting for the end of the deadline for repayment of the aid, i.e. 2018, which IBT had received from Europe and the Walloon Region under Objective 1. I ask you to incorporate these elements into your thinking. This must obviously not play for the analysis you need to perform. It's up to you to question him. With regard to the maintenance of the installations, the latter is entrusted to an independent of the area. It is the "allo-heater", to tell you what serious rule in this matter! We're swimming in the middle of vaudeville. The situation could be comical if it weren't for nuclear waste. Cyclotron remains nuclear waste. More generally, beyond this case, there is a need for greater accountability for the owners of facilities working with nuclear energy. One way to do this would be to force them to a real deposit of a bank guarantee. We've already experienced this with Nordion, now Best Medical, in Fleurus, who left. It's the same with EZB, I think. The deposit of a security or at least the obligation to deposit a security in case of resale (we had the resale of Nordion to Best Medical and here IBT has moved to EZB), would allow to have a financial leverage in case of necessary intervention on your part. Here are some elements for the EZB file and for your on-site visit, but also, more broadly, for accountability in this area. Even if your answer was short, my reply was long. It's to equip you for your field visit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u85	Minister, every year there is a deafening language report by the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital Arrondissement on the non-application of the language law in administrative matters by the Brussels local authorities. Unfortunately, his report of the year 2015 was no different from the other reports. With regard to the recruitment policy of the Brussels local authorities, we have to note that this language legislation is being violated massively. Let me give you some figures from the recent report. In 2015, a total of 1 168 files on recruitments or promotions were received for the Brussels municipalities. Of these, no less than 65.15 % were not in good order with the language rules. These are no less than 761 illegal recruitments and promotions. This is an increase of 4% compared to the previous year. It's even worse for the OCMWFs. Before that, the vice-governor received 1 124 files, 998 of which were not in line with language legislation. That is almost 90% and it is even worse than the year before. The language law is also being violated massively in terms of the division of relations between language groups. According to the law, at least 25% of the relations must be forwarded to each language group. In 2015, only 13.2% of these relations went to a Dutch language. For the OCMWFs, that was only 4.1 %. The violation of the language law is, of course, only possible because there is a flagrant lack of custody. The Council of State has repeatedly held that the power of destruction conferred on the Brussels custody authorities is not optional but compulsory. If the Deputy Governor suspends a decision of a municipality or an OCMW and is not withdrawn by that institution, it is the duty of the Brussels Minister or of the members of his college to destroy the appointment. Of those 1 759 illegal appointments last year, according to the vice-governor, one was destroyed by those Brussels guardians. I think we can speak very clearly here of incivism, of renunciation to the rule of law on a very large scale. I have asked many questions about this in the past. I get the answer that you are not responsible for that. Of course, it is up to the Brussels guardians to take action against this. Until further notice, language legislation in administrative matters is still a federal competence for which you are responsible as Minister of the Interior. If the federal government finds that a law which falls within its powers is not complied with, it is its duty to act against it and to take the necessary measures to bring it to an end. You can take many legislative initiatives to change the monitoring of the application of that law so that it can be carried out effectively and illegal appointments can no longer be made. You can write a letter about the application of the law and its control. You can file a conflict of interest on that issue. You can set them up on the Consultation Committee. You could go to court. There are probably other ways I'm not thinking about right now that you could act on. Minister, what is your position on the Deputy Governor's report with the 2015 figures and the findings on violations of the language law? If you do not think that is acceptable, I assume that you will do something about it. There are plenty of possibilities. What initiatives will you take to put an end to this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u86	I have indeed taken note of the report you mention. I too regret this state of affairs, in which a government from this country ignores the law. I would remind you that, in application of Article 7 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, the Regions are responsible for the ordinary administrative supervision of compliance with language legislation. I didn't invent that, but that's in the special law. You are right that I am competent for language legislation, but the power to comply with it was conferred on the Regions by the legislator at the time. In this case, the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region is specifically responsible for the municipalities and the United College of the Joint Community Commission for the OMCW. Obviously, I do not have custody of these institutions. You are right that this should be put back on the table at the next state reform. In one way or another, interference must be possible. If someone were to file a complaint today with the vice-governor against such a decision, the vice-governor could forward this complaint to the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring. It could then make a statement and thus put an end to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u87	Minister, you make some suggestions in the conditional sense: through complaints, through the Deputy Governor and through the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. But there are also many initiatives that you could take. I've outlined the situation. You are not responsible for monitoring compliance with the legislation. The custody minister is from Brussels, but the legislative aspect is under your jurisdiction. I do not get an answer to my question as to whether it is possible to bring this matter up to date in the Conciliation Committee or at any level. You have plenty of resources. You can change the law perfectly to put control somewhere else. I understand that a Community Omerta has been agreed in this government, but I note that it is very well respected on one side, but that there are even calls on the French-speaking side for re-federalisation. This is not even an initiative to apply the existing legislation. It is not a question of new Community initiatives, is it? The fact that the Community's standstill is going so far is certainly hallucinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u88	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, in particular Article 21; - having regard to the report of the Deputy Governor of the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital for the year 2015, - whereas in 2015, 65% of recruitments by Brussels municipalities were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas, in the same year, 88.8% of recruitments by the Brussels OCMWFs were contrary to the language law in administrative matters; - whereas, according to the settled caselaw of the Council of State, Brussels supervisory authorities have destroyed only 0.056 % of the illegal appointments, although the power of destruction conferred on them was not granted optionally, but an obligation; - having regard to the fact that in the distribution of relations at municipal level in 2015, only 13.2% of the jobs went to Dutch speakers and barely 4.1 % in the field of OMCWs, although legally at least 25% should be allocated to each language group, asks the government take all necessary measures in the short term to ensure that the existing language law in administrative matters is complied with correctly and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law in Brussels as well." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, and in particular article 21 thereof; - having regard to the report of the Vice-Governor of the administrative district of Brussels-Capital for the year 2015; - Whereas in 2015 65,15 % of recruitment by Brussels municipalities violates the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas in the same year, 88.8% of recruitments carried out by Brussels CPAS violates the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the Brussels supervisory authorities have cancelled only 0.056 % of the unlawful appointments, whereas, according to the settled case-law of the Council of State, the power of annulment conferred on them is not optional, but compulsory; - Whereas in 2015 only 13.2% of the jobs were allocated to Dutch-speaking people at the municipal level and only 4.1% at the CPAS level, whereas the law requires that at least 25% of the jobs be allocated to each language group, asks the government to take all necessary measures in the near future to ensure that Brussels local administrations also comply with the law on the use of languages in administrative matters in accordance with the principles of the rule of law." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Veli Yüksel. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 13969 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u89	As Mr Hellings is not yet here, I give the floor to Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I will adapt my question slightly to the current situation. Recently, a large number of refugees were again spotted on the motorways and on the parkings along the highways. This creates a lot of road safety, but of course it also causes a lot of problems, including for truck drivers, who are sometimes, as it were, robbed by people who try to get into their trucks to take the crossing to Britain. Earlier, the governor of East Flanders decided to close the parking in Drongen. This of course increases the pressure on the parkings in West Flanders, where you and your colleague Weyts have provided private surveillance. The imminent closure of the camp in Calais and the many checks at Zeebrugge also ensure that transmigrants try to cross the border in other ways and by other means. My first question was about strengthening checks on motorways and parkings along motorways. I shall drop that question because a positive response has already been given. Are you meeting for a meeting with the governors of the surrounding provinces? After all, one closes the parking lot and now private agents are being deployed. We notice some pressure again on Zeebrugge. Do you come together with the various governors to arrive at a coordinated approach for the future? Do you also envisage consultation with the French authorities to deal with the problem together? I believe that the best solution is not a one shot, but a whole and coordinated approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u91	Minister, the parking lot in Westkerke has been closed for two years. The parking in Drongen is also closed for at least one month. It is said that there will be more. We see that the remaining parking facilities are becoming increasingly under pressure, as the lorry drivers must, of course, be able to respect their rest periods somewhere. The mayor of Jabbeke and the governor of West Flanders called the alarm. According to them, closing parking facilities is the very last option, also because this could be a problem for the transport sector. The situation is therefore in danger of becoming a more general problem. Is this also a problem in other provinces, for example in Wallonia? Which motorway parkings and rest areas have been closed due to the problem of human trafficking and illegal transit migrants over the past five years? Which ones have been reopened in the meantime? Have you discussed the parking in Jabbeke with the competent authorities? If so, when and what were the results? Can you give figures for the last four months on the number of transit migrants arrested along the E40 and along other motorways? Is there a trend in that? Is it intended to temporarily close the parkings or will it be permanent? My second question relates specifically to the situation as a result of the evacuation of the Calais camp. In the jungle of Calais, 9 000 people would be staying in the meantime, according to aid organisations. Various measures have already been taken in the course of this year. At the first evacuation of the tent camp there were temporary border controls until 19 April. You said that you would do this in a good way and that the controls would not be permanent. Following monthly evaluations, the impact of the measures taken would be assessed. Recently there was another police operation of the West Coast zone, from 12 September to the morning of 13 September. Another 97 illegal transit migrants were arrested, most of them from Iraq and Syria. How is the control of these illegal transit migrants going now? Since September, have any new measures been taken? Have you recently had contact with the French Minister for the Interior about the tent camps and their possible impact on Belgium? If so, what measures will be taken in France? Can you tell me what the most recent report on transmigration to West Flanders is? Are there any new measures? Are additional checks needed at the border between France and Belgium and on the coastline again? What is the impact of these transit migrants on the ports of Zeebrugge, Ostend and Nieuwpoort? We also visited the port of Zeebrugge with this committee, where we were able to make sure of the problem. Is there currently camera surveillance in the ports of Nieuwpoort and Ostend? If not, when will it come?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u92	Mr President, Minister, the French government recently announced the dismantling of the Jungle, where there are currently more than 10,000 people, including many unaccompanied minors (MENA). Last February, when the southern part of the same camp was dismantled, Belgium reacted immediately by reintroducing border controls with France, in derogation from the Schengen border code. This operation called Medusa-Grens ended in April 2016. The new dismantling envisaged by your French counterpart would take place at a time when a serious incident took place on 22 September between Belgian and French policemen, this being the case for our ambassador in Paris to be summoned by your French colleague, Mr Bernard Cazeneuve. Minister, in February 2016, you stated that your services had not been notified or consulted by France during the dismantling of the southern shantytown of Calais. This time, are you consulted by your French counterparts as part of the organization of the upcoming operation? How? Are joint actions by the Belgian and French police envisaged? In the event of a dismantling, does the Belgian police intend to re-establish exceptional controls at the Belgian-French border, similar to those observed during Operation Medusa-Grens? If so, for what period? Could you please tell me what the legal basis you are basing yourself on to derogate so clearly from the Schengen Borders Code? The European Commission had called on Belgium following the exception to the Schengen Borders Code in February. Could you explain to me the answers you had given to the European executive in this regard? Knowing that our asylum structure has been considerably less sought for a few months, and that among the people currently massed in Calais are very vulnerable migrants (MENAs), potentially asylum seekers in Belgium, are you planning measures of first reception or emergency reception in case of dismantling of the Jungle?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u93	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, questions about the refugee camp in Calais have already been raised in plenary last Thursday. The file evolves day by day. I agree with the questions that have already been asked and would like a specific answer to the following questions. Firstly, there are additional measures in place this week and also next week. Can you update these? Secondly, do we continue to opt for targeted police controls? How many checks have been carried out in the last six months? How many interceptions did those controls result in? Thirdly, are the orders to leave the territory still immediate orders, instead of the order within five days, as before? How does the succession of refugees happen? Is a refugee locked up in a closed facility in the event of a second interception? How many people were locked up and removed from the territory? Fourthly, an official of the Foreign Office was appointed to West Flanders to deal with the files more quickly. Is that official still active? Is there any prospect of making the position permanent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u94	Mr Hellings, you have no idea how happy I am to see you here. I had prepared my answer in two languages. If you had been absent, I should have translated the passages into French into Dutch. However, I must say that most of your questions have already been asked in this committee on several occasions. Mr President, the committee secretariat may have a role to play here. I can answer every question seven times, but perhaps the answers to questions that have been asked before can be sent. I do not want to do anything for Parliament, but I think that a little efficiency can be incorporated into parliamentary work. In passing, that is what I have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now answer all the questions openly and in full, as you are used to me. Question No 2 by Mr Vermeulen 14305. On 22 September, a consultation meeting was held in Lille on the subject, in the presence of the French prefect Mr Lalande. On that occasion, it was agreed that France would keep Belgium informed of the preparation and timing of the evacuation operation of the Calais Jungle, that it would ensure its smooth operation and that it would ensure that our country was not adversely affected. The Prefect of Lille is also in favour of closer collaboration for the interception of human traffickers and those involved in illegal immigration, among other things, through better exchange of information. It was also agreed that two contact points would be established to ensure good communication. One at the local police level, for local cross-border issues via the Chief of Police of the Westkust Police Area, and the other at the federal police level via the Dirco de Tournai. I have complete confidence that we will be properly informed about this large-scale operation to come. At the right time, we will decide on the measures to be put in place to prevent the creation of new Calais in our country. Mr Hellings, on your third question, the reintroduction of temporary control at internal borders does not constitute a derogation from the Schengen Border Code (Regulation 2016/399). It is specifically provided for in Articles 25 to 35 of the Regulation, which describes the circumstances under which Member States may temporarily reintroduce control at internal borders, as well as the procedures to be followed and the obligations to be fulfilled in the field of information. With regard to your fourth question, between 23 February and 22 April 2016, following the announcement by France of the partial evacuation of the camps in Calais, Belgium actually carried out a temporary reintroduction of border controls between France and the province of West Flanders, on the basis of Article 22 of the Schengen Borders Code. On 19 April 2016, in accordance with Article 27 of the Schengen Borders Code, the European Commission asked our country to provide additional information on these border controls and the results they produced. On 4 May 2016, Belgium replied that the checks had ceased on 22 April 2016 and reported the results obtained. I come to Mrs Lahaye's first question, Mr Demon's first question, Mr Hellings' second question and Mr Vermeulen's third and fourth questions. Additional measures will indeed be taken to counter the influx of illegal transit migrants into our country. My cabinet and the federal police have prepared a number of scenarios, to which an operational roll-out was linked. The choice of scenario will depend on how the emergency shelter in Calais will be dismantled. For understandable operational reasons, the scenario mismatches cannot now be released. So we are in permanent contact with the French in that area. They will keep us informed of the decommissioning........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On this basis, we have the scenario scenarios ready to act. I come to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's second question and Mr Vermeulen's first and fifth questions. We continue to opt for targeted police controls. Every day there are checks on actions by the intervention corps of West Flanders in the border region and in the port of Zeebrugge. There are daily checks by patrols in the West Coast police zone and in the Bruges police zone, so at the border and in the port. There shall be targeted checks in the case of operations at the parking lot Storm in proportion to at least once a week and targeted checks in the case of Eastpack operations at the port of Zeebrugge in proportion to at least once a month. We've been asked about the number of intercepts. In April 2016, 620 irregular foreigners were found in West Flanders, in May 2016 470, in June 546, in July 539, in August 484 and in September 569. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, for the answer to your third question, please refer to Secretary of State Francken, who is responsible for this matter. So I can't answer them. As for your fourth question, the liaison officer of DVZ in West Flanders is still active. Working on a permanent basis is an absolute added value. Work is under way to finalise and operationalise the promised additional people, the so-called MATA team, as soon as possible. I come to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's first question and Mr Vermeulen's third question from Question No 5, by Mr Vermeulen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 14304. The consultations between the various operational services concerned took place on Monday 17 October, the day before yesterday. The purpose of this consultation was merely to coordinate operationally the deployment of all the services concerned. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, on your third question, I am very positive about the use of private security for specific tasks. The police should be able to focus on their core tasks. That is why I have also taken the initiative to amend the law on private security in order to make it possible to make a wider and more efficient commitment. Mr Vermeulen, you are asking for quite a few figures. The problem indeed manifests itself in other provinces and is at present of greater interest to Wallonia than before. The phenomenon is no longer limited to the axis of the E40. When we study the evolution of the number of arrested migrants between 2014 and 2016, the figures are significant. In 2014, the number of migrants intercepted by the federal road police was 692, including 562 migrants on the axis E40, the road crossing East and West Flanders and Brabant. They also speak of 437 for Flanders; that is on the axis E40 plus Antwerp and Limburg; further it is about 188 migrants for Brabant and 67 for Wallonia. In Wallonia it is Hainaut, Liège, Namur and Luxembourg. From 2015 we will see an increase of 68.5 % compared to 2014 or a total of 1 166 people. In terms of number of migrants this translates as follows: 900 persons for Flanders, 145 for Brabant, 777 on the axis E40 and 121 for Wallonia. Finally, in 2016, including September, we note an increase in the phenomenon by 201.5 % compared to 2014 and by almost 79 % compared to 2015. They are 2 086 migrants in total. 1 583 persons are noted for Flanders, 277 for Brabant, 1 783 for the axis E40 and 226 for Wallonia. These figures show a remarkable increase for Wallonia, where we evolved from 67 detained migrants in 2014 to 121 in 2015 and 226 in 2016. This corresponds to a percentage increase of 80.6 and 86.77 %. In absolute figures, the number of intercepted migrants remains, of course, much higher in Flanders than in Wallonia. Mr Vermeulen, I come to your second question from the first series of questions. Over the past five years, in the context of the problem of smuggling and illegal transmigration, we have found that no motorway parking was closed in the provinces of Brabant, Antwerp, Limburg, Luxembourg, Namur, Liège and Hainaut. In the province of West Flanders, however, the Westkerke car park has been closed in the direction of France since 2 June 2014. The closure shall be extended every six months pending the end of the adaptation works to be carried out. In the province of East Flanders, the parking lot Drongen is currently closed during the month of October 2016. I come to your fourth question, Mr Vermeulen. During the last four months, 254 transmigrants were intercepted by the Road Police units working along the E40. In the last two months, in particular, this number has increased considerably. It is mainly a question of increasing Sudanese and Eritreans. Foreigners of these nationalities have not been intercepted to this extent in Belgium until now. The suspicion is that they come from Calais. On the other motorways, the number of transit migrants intercepted has remained fairly stable over the last four months. Only in September can we see a slight increase here. The increase was mainly driven by a few groups of transmigrants intercepted from a truck. The debriefing showed in most cases that they crawled into the truck in Calais or Dunkirk, assuming it was on its way to the United Kingdom. I think I have answered all the questions in extenso.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u95	Minister, I'm gonna be short. Freedom of movement is the norm. It is provided for in the Schengen Code. It can only be called into question for compelling security reasons. I understand that a real humanitarian and security problem arises in Calais, but being undocumented, being a migrant is not a crime. This is of course very important, as it is important not to criminalize the migrant. The smugglers are criminals, but the 10,000 migrants are not criminals. On the other hand, what is criminal is the attitude of the French state that allowed the situation to rot and created this jungle. That's clear. Secondly, you have not answered the question about the fate of the MENA, but I shall rest the question with Mr Franken. Everything seems to be safe from the point of view of dismantling. Contacts are made with the French police and it appears that your services have taken the necessary steps to control this dismantling. On the other hand, nothing is prepared from a humanitarian point of view. However, when 10,000 people suddenly find themselves somewhere other than where they used to be, this will pose a humanitarian problem. Some of these ten thousand migrants are children, unaccompanied minors. Some of them may also be the subject of an asylum application. There, on the other hand, you did not answer me about what was ready on the side of the Foreign Office. This is a question that I asked the Secretary of State and was transferred to you. I believe that, beyond security measures, it is also necessary to take humanitarian measures and to provide for the necessary reception, especially for minors if they come for some reason to cross that border. My colleague De Vriendt was in Calais last week. He told me about children sometimes eight years old. I believe that Belgium's duty is to do everything possible to welcome these people, these children, with dignity and respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u96	Minister, I think everything is clear. It is waiting for the jungle of Calais to close. It's good to hear that everything is prepared. In my view, we should consider a permanent closure together with the governors and the French authorities. This is not a problem that will be resolved within six months or a year. We must therefore draw up a detailed plan. Thank you, Minister, for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have given the figures of the number of interceptions from April to September. Those numbers stay high. I am thinking of the people who have to carry out this task; that should not be obvious. Together with you, Minister, and with my fellow Members, I will follow this dossier very closely. Let us hope that the evacuation will take place in an orderly manner next week and that there will be no negative consequences in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for the figures. I've asked a lot of them, and I've been given them. I have the following reservations. Firstly, as far as Calais is concerned, Mr Hellings, I follow you when you say that someone who is staying illegally is therefore not a criminal. But it is primarily about people coming from another European country. It should not be the intention of Belgium to deal with the problems of another country. Secondly, as far as border issues are concerned, fortunately we have the Chief of Police of the West Coast. That is a very enterprising man, who, together with you, acts quickly and decisively as soon as matters are determined. If everyone were to act in this way, there might also be swift and firm action in other places. I admit that not everyone likes that, but I'm glad, especially for our province, that that man is there. In general, I would have preferred to see the problems of transit migrants in Flanders reduced rather than increased in Wallonia. However, it indicates that this issue is more than a local problem and that we will have to make a strong effort in this area, not only at federal but even at international level. There is also concern that other nationalities will be added, alongside the classic ones. These people are indeed arriving, either through smugglers of human beings, or from Calais to our country, and that is precisely what we must avoid. Minister, I would also like to comment on what you said before answering the substantive questions. You are right to say that it is a waste of time, both for you and for us, if you have to answer the same questions on the same subject over and over again. However, this can be solved in a fairly simple way. Each time you notice this, your cabinet and the administration may refer to the number of the question previously asked and the date of the answer to it. Then you only need to provide the new information and for the rest you can refer to your previously given reply. This way you should not repeat the full picture. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u99	Mr Minister, this is actually a follow-up question. On 13 July, in this committee, you confirmed in your reply to my question that the 112 app was ready for the emergency power stations operating on the CAD ASTRID. By September, the app would also be ready for those plants that have remained in the old system. Afterwards, an information campaign would follow, but following an attack on a doctor on 18 August 2016, your spokesperson nuded a number of things in the media. It was then communicated that in the autumn a test audience would try out the new app first. In your reply of 2 September to my written question, you said that your administration is currently examining the possibility of introducing a pre-call take for all emergency calls. This short survey would have a multiple purpose. Firstly, to ensure that there is only one emergency number left: the citizen will have to call only one number to get the help he wants and not 112 for medical and fire aid and 101 for police. Secondly, urgent and non-urgent calls separate: non-urgent calls do not belong in an emergency power station. Thirdly, keep all unnecessary or improper calls from emergency power stations. Only after that possibility has been examined would a decision be taken on the one hand, the draft ministerial decision on the malicious calls and, on the other hand, the menu announced at the end of last year at the emergency number 112, which aims to discourage false callers and obtain that the caller is served immediately in his or her language. Also at the beginning of September there was a fuss about the poster campaign "If you are unlucky you will now call 112. from the Flemish government, who had to announce the disappearance of the remaining 1 350 talking posts along our motorways. After one day, the Flemish Minister of Mobility stopped the campaign. Of course it is not intended to call the emergency services for every breakdown service, you put in a response. The Roads and Traffic Agency responded that the emergency services had indeed been consulted. I have the following questions, Minister. Was the test audience that will try out the 112 app already composed? Can you explain how this is going to go? Will the information campaign only follow after that? Could you also explain more about the pre-call taking currently under investigation? What's the status? By when can decisions be expected? What consultations took place between the AWV and the emergency power stations? How did the decision-making process proceed, so that the unsuccessful campaign came about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u100	Your question concerns three different themes which can be covered in the same hat. The user-friendliness tests of the 112 app are now running for the CAD ASTRID plants. The tests with the CAD CityGIS-fired power stations.... you know that we still have two types of power stations... start this month. The app will be presented to the general public in January 2017. An information campaign will have to ensure that citizens receive the necessary instructions on how to download the 112 app on their smartphone and how to use the app correctly. As far as your second question is concerned, the concept of pre-call taking means that a sorting will take place prior to the processing of the 112 call. The main purpose of this sorting is twofold. Firstly, immediately connect the caller to the discipline he or she needs by directing his or her call after a very short search to either the emergency medical and fire department or to the police centre, taking into account the language and county boundaries. Secondly, filter out a large part of the unnecessary calls. The advantages and disadvantages of the different sorting options are currently being examined and discussed with stakeholders. The 112 app is already a form of pre-call taking, in which the citizen himself will be able to identify the assistance he or she needs, after which he or she will be able to contact the local power station directly. In the background, additional information, such as location and language, is sent along. I come to your third question. There have indeed been no consultations between the Roads and Traffic Agency and emergency power stations. Apparently, the AWV has had contacts with the road police. They say that they did sit around the table with the security services, but of course there are many security services. There has been no consultation with the 112 plant itself. There has been contact with the road police. From these contacts it has been concluded that there was no problem in referring the citizen with car trouble to the emergency number 112. For more information about the decision-making process and the cost of the campaign, I must of course refer you to another level, to colleague Ben Weyts, Flemish Minister of Mobility, Public Works, Flemish Rand, Tourism and Animal Welfare. He can answer that, but I am pleased that the campaign has not continued. It really wasn't the right channel to pass on car wrecks on emergency number 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your specific answers to my questions. I will, as you suggest, ask a colleague from the Flemish level to question your colleague Ben Weyts, with all his powers you have listed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u102	Mr President, Minister, my question was introduced before you asked Parliament for urgency. So I have to adapt it. On 4 December 2015, you submitted a first draft bill to the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, it has been tabled in the House and we will discuss it this Friday in the Terrorism Committee. The new element is that on September 14, you received a copy of a letter from the Community of European Railway and Infrastructure Companies (CER) to Prime Minister Charles Michel. In its missive, the association of European railway companies expresses its many fears about your ambitions to include international rail transport in your future Belgian PNR system. It refers to the totally disproportionate nature of this measure when it comes to transnational trains in view of the number of passengers travelling daily in Europe. The ERC stresses the extremely complex (end of last-minute tickets) and costly (storage and sending of data) nature of the implementation of such a system, which would further reduce the attractiveness of the train compared to the use of the individual vehicle. In addition, the European Commission has sent a text in the same direction protesting against the fact that it is particularly contrary to the Schengen principles. The ERC's letter also stresses that from a security point of view it is absurd to impose a PNR for transnational trains, knowing that there are a multitude of other means than these specific trains to reach or leave Belgium from the Schengen area; I am thinking in particular of the individual car used by the terrorist Abdeslam, or buses and others. The REB states that persons representing a danger or threat with falsified identity papers or dangerous individuals unknown to the security services will not be intercepted through a pregnant NRP system. That is my question. Following the missed Thalys attack, a study was commissioned by the European Commission on the safety measures to be taken in the rail sector to combat terrorism effectively across the continent. The conclusions are expected by the end of this year. Why didn't you wait for these conclusions before filing the Belgian PNR project and riding alone? The Deutsche Bahn, like the European Commission, seems particularly concerned about the potential impact of your PNR project on the viability of its ICE trains linking Belgium and Germany. Have you had any contact with your German counterpart on this issue? If so, when? Did you reassure him? In what terms? For the rest, we will have an in-depth debate in committee on the NRP and, rest assured, we will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u103	Mr Hellings, the draft law must be seen as a framework law whose specific arrangements for the sector still have to be settled by means of implementing orders which will be the subject of consultation in the Council of Ministers. This means that the framework law does not establish the obligation for each transport sector, but rather the royal decrees agreed in the Council of Ministers. I have therefore chosen a reasoning according to which, if certain things of air transport are required, other types of transport are involved. The law is considered to be a framework law for which all modes of transport are provided without any mention of obligations. The Royal Decrees are designed in consultation with the sector. At noon, I met the people of the REB. The frame seemed very reassuring. The Royal Decree will be drafted in consultation with them. We will therefore wait for the European initiative that you have just mentioned. I also told industry representatives that the goal was not to disrupt them at all and that they might see opportunities in this law. I'll give you an example. I know very well that most train tickets are not nominal, but they are evolving. The more tickets are purchased over the internet, the more data we have. For the moment, the majority of them are not nominal. The advantage of the PNR system for railway undertakings is that if they connect to it, they can assess passengers. It's not an obligation, it's an opportunity to seize. Belgium wants effective measures in the processing of passenger data. To achieve and ensure this effectiveness, the development of these measures will be done in consultation with our neighbours and through consultation with the sector. Thus, in an informal consultation on the rail sector, it was agreed with the neighbouring countries concerned to harmonise the different approaches. Belgium will not play the game alone. It is in consultation with the sector and neighbouring countries that we will see how to implement this, but the aim is not to impose new obligations on this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u104	We will have the opportunity to go back to it very broadly in the debate that begins on Friday, but your framework law speaks, in its Article 7, of carriers: it therefore applies to all carriers, described as "any natural or legal person who professionally transports persons by air, sea, rail or land". You say that the specific case of the train will be settled in the royal execution orders. This seems normal to me since a law is always specified by implementing orders, but your bill, introduced before the Terrorism Commission, provides that it applies to carriers that are understood as railway operators. I understand your willingness to reassure operators who are rightly concerned, but your bill does apply to them. As far as your reasoning is concerned, you say it's normal that we go to get data from passengers on trains, buses and boats, since terrorists, knowing that they are being followed by the PNR plane, will prefer these modes of transport. Then let's go to the end of the process, because in the end they will fall back on the car: unfortunately they have already borrowed this means in the case of Abdelslam. You tell us that this will not apply to passengers who take the train at the last minute. The terrorists will then borrow them. Finally, as a matter of principle, there is a dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union with regard to the Treaty between the European Union and Canada on the exchange of PNR data. It would be useful to await the final judgment of the European Court of Justice before legislating and transposing the Directive. We have two years to do this: there is no urgency. We can wait for what the Court will say and the opinion of the Advocate General, who is very generally followed and without appeal. The data collection measure for all passengers is not proportionate to the objective of combating violent forms and serious crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u105	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13991 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 14020 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u106	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to information published in the press, it appears that a request to reintegrate STIB security personnel into the ranks of the Federal Police was sent by your office to the Brussels Minister of Mobility. The purpose of this operation would be to integrate these officers into the future Surveillance and Control Directorate, in which they would have police officer status. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm this information? If so, can you provide us with more details on the objectives pursued and, therefore, give us an overview of the consultations initiated with the Brussels Minister for Mobility? How many STIB staff would be involved, and by what time frame would they be included in the above-mentioned Directorate? More broadly, when will this future direction be put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u107	Mr Calomne, the creation of the Directorate of Surveillance and Protection (DAB) is a government decision and is one of the 20 measures in the debate on key tasks. The objective of this project is, among other things, the optimisation of security services. The tasks of the Railway Police (SPC) are not affected by this new direction. At some point, I had contact with my colleague from Mobility to see if, with security services like Securail, we can find synergies. I had to see that there was no basis to continue. The railway police are therefore not involved in the creation of the Directorate of Surveillance and Protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u108	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. You have talked about rail, but if I understand you correctly, the same applies to STIB. [[Sentiment]] All right. It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u109	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to information also published in the press, it seems that, for several months now, the Midi police area in the Brussels region would be unable to organise radar speed controls. This would result from the lack of training of officers in the installation and use of these radars. If these facts are proven, you will agree that this is an unfortunate and questionable situation, particularly with regard to the training of officers. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm this information and, if so, tell us when no more checks are carried out? What solutions have been adopted to restore the situation as soon as possible? Is there any intention to strengthen the procedures for training police officers in the use of radars in order to have a sufficient number of duly trained officers? Are you aware of similar situations in other police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u110	Mr Calomne, with regard to the facts to which you are referring, namely that the Midi police zone would be unable to carry out speed checks for lack of training in this area, it seems to me more appropriate to allow the chief of corps of this police zone to answer this question. Indeed, the organizational aspects of the police zone depend on its competence. The head of the corps, however, told me that this question, relayed by the press, was also addressed to the police college by one of its members, Mr. Kestemont. The College will officially take note of this request this Wednesday. The head of the corps will then have 30 days to respond. I therefore propose that you wait for the official reply of the head of the corps. However, I would like to point out that the Midi police zone participated in the marathon day against the speed of the day before yesterday. Finally, at my level, I do not have information on formative problems in terms of speed control in other areas of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u111	Thank you, Minister. I will wait for the answer to be given in a useful place. I am pleased that the problem does not arise in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u112	Minister, in the past, the Federal Railway Police were strongly present on the Brussels metro to help ensure safety. While mobility is a regional competence, this does not apply to the safety of public transport. The federal agents were very welcome and did their job well. There seem to be fewer of them now. I have the following questions. Can you tell me how many federal police officers are still present in security for STIB? Can you also tell me how that figure has evolved over the past year? Can you give an overview of the figures per month?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u113	The organic table of the Brussels SPC shall be 290 FTEs. The total effective since November 2015, month after month 266, 268, 264, 264, 268, 267, 264, 267, 264, 264, 262 and, in September, 251. Thus, at present, 251 FTEs are available, supplemented by 47 "splits'. So people have also been added, precisely because the organic table is not fully filled. The total is thus 298 staff on site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The difference between last August and last September is 16 FTEs. Is there a specific reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u115	I have no particular reason for that phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 14149 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u117	Mr President, Minister, some time ago I asked a question about the HyCap and its unequal distribution in this area. I've looked at the latest figures. Instead of asking for figures, I have given figures in my question. Classically, most HyCap is used during the summer months, as there are several major music and sporting events. However, the figures show that the difference between north and south has remained. We notice that only 2% of HyCap remains in Flanders. Some provinces in Wallonia have made more efforts. Mostly the Brussels-Capital Region is lagging behind. We also note that the provinces of Hainaut and Walloon Brabant and the Brussels-Capital Region are using too little HyCap. Given their situation, all assistance would be welcome, especially for the West Coast, in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. We score 11 % with West Flanders, so we have already delivered too much HyCap for 11 %. Mr. Secretary, are there still police zones that refuse to supply HyCap? Can it be ensured that HyCap is delivered as a priority to the provinces that have already granted their full capacity? Do you have an idea of the possible measures that could possibly be taken against police areas that are always failing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u118	Mr President, Minister, there is a limit on the number of hours that local police members can be claimed by Brussels, if I may put it that way, because in the facts these policemen go to Brussels. At the end of this summer, you sent a letter stating that the capacity for this year has already been used up to 100%, that we are already recording the capacity for 2017. In the letter you state that the year 2016 has proved exceptional in terms of the demands made on the police. However, I would like to note that not only the capacity for HyCap was used to a greater extent. Local areas have also been given a lot of work, given the circumstances. So the increased bet is double. Minister, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Have all zones received a similar letter, or was the letter sent only to those areas that have already delivered the 100 % of HyCap? Will the HyCap again be called upon to evacuate Calais or its possible consequences? What measures have you already taken to spread the HyCap capabilities? West Flemish zones have been forced to deliver a lot of capacity in recent months. What other measures have you already taken to relieve the burden on local areas? Has any additional staff been recruited yet? How much HyCap capacity from 2017 can the zones still absorb in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u119	First of all, I will answer Mr Degroote's first question. There are indeed police zones that refuse to supply HyCap. As laid down in the MFO-2 circular on the solidarity mechanism between police zones, the police zone which does not wish to supply HyCap must draw up a specific form which is sent to the management of the administrative police operations via the administrative director-coordinator, the DirCo. The DirCo shall be deemed, after consultation with the Chief Constable of the Police Zone concerned, to state its opinion on the form in question and to add a proposal for a solution to it. The DAO shall draw up a summary dossier for the attention of SAT Home Affairs and the AIG. On the basis of the forms received, the AIG keeps an overview of the refusals or the impossibility of delivering HyCap. This overview is not complete. It is almost certain that not every form will be sent systematically to the AIG. Because it may sometimes take some time for the AIG to receive a form, it is also not possible to draw up an updated picture. The number of forms of refusal or impossibility to supply HyCap received by the AIG in recent months is significantly higher than in recent years. Where over 100 forms have been received annually in the past, the number currently exceeds 1 800. Undoubtedly, this has to do with a number of factors such as the threat of terrorism, the prison strike and transmigration, where a lot of police work has been and is being asked for over a long period of time. This very high number of forms is a clear signal that the current HyCap system has its limitations and is unable to respond to a period of prolonged crises. This finding is also the reason why, at the request of the Minister for the Interior, a Steering Committee on Optimisation Mobilisation mechanisms was set up. A number of police zones refuse to provide reinforcement to the federal police, for example for surveillance orders at Zaventem airport or in the Brussels metro, because such reinforcement is not covered by the application of the MFO-2 and there is no regulatory basis that would require local police to provide reinforcement to the federal police, although the law on the integrated police provides for that possibility. The AIG addressed this issue by letter to the Minister for the Interior. He's asked the federal police to do whatever it takes to fix that. A binding ministerial directive in this area is in preparation. All kinds of arguments are used to motivate a refusal or an impossibility. A number of arguments clearly do not comply with the guidelines of the MFO-2 circular, for example the decision of a police college not to provide support for the replacement of guards as a result of a strike or the decision of a police chief not to deploy his staff for reinforcements outside the district. For the other forms, it is not always evident to judge, on the basis of the arguments used, whether the refusal or impossibility to supply can be justified. For example, the argument is often used that capacity is no longer available or that basic functionality is compromised. For example, on the basis of the arguments used, it is not always possible to determine the extent to which the zone has reached the threshold of 12% for its own use. It is also striking, although explicitly included in the MFO-2, that not all administrative director-co-ordinators (DirCo-ordinators) give their advice in a systematic manner. In the end, they should be better informed of the local situation and therefore best placed to evaluate the arguments used. The AIG currently only has a view of the HyCap refusals based on the forms received and not on the number of times a police zone is asked to supply HyCap, nor on whether that HyCap was delivered effectively. A general view of the whole and of the problem of mobilisation capacity is currently not possible. Insofar as figures are already available on the deployment of HyCap and the CIK, they are spread across a number of services, such as the DAO, the DirCos, the police zones and the AIG. Proper monitoring should make it possible, for example, to detect those areas which refuse to systematically identify problems arising from the category to which the zone belongs. In this context, we must not forget that the HyCap mandates have been defined by the legislator as federal tasks to be carried out by the local police and compensated annually by a federal financial compensation. Mr President, I will answer your first question together with your fifth question. All zones have received the letter. Since the HyCap performance line was merged for the years 2016 and 2017, the remaining HyCap can be included for the remaining period of 2016-2017. The full sum of available capacity may be used in the continuous two-year period. This increases flexibility and buffer capacity in order to absorb certain peak taxes for administrative police missions in 2016 and 2017. The MFO-2ter Ministerial Directive of 3 October on the exceptional two-year performance line was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 October 2016. I come to your second question, Mr Top. Since the HyCap mechanism is the regular solidarity and reinforcement mechanism within the integrated police for administrative police missions, if it appears that HyCap's deployment is required to cope with the consequences of the evacuation in Calais, it will of course be called upon to do so. I come to questions 2 and 3 by Mr Degroote and questions 3 and 4 by Mr Top. A number of parameters are taken into account for the designation of the district to provide the reinforcement: the language system, the geographical proximity, the likely duration of the contract, the extent to which the performance line of the police zones and the districts has already been used up, the workload of the police zones and the districts during the period in question, etc. The practical application of the various criteria is, as it should always be, common sense and in consultation with the DirCos. Based on the above principles, the aim is to ensure a fair distribution of the burden. The intervention corps of the federal police, the CIK, was established at the time to reduce the HyCap contribution of the police zones. It is therefore my duty to bring this corps to its fully planned strength and to optimise its functioning. In addition, the installation of the Federal Police Public Security Executive is currently under way in order to provide more support to police areas with both specialised and non-specialized capabilities. As I said, a police steering committee is in charge of reviewing the mobilisation. It explores how to ensure a better and increased operational impact in the future on the challenges and expectations that are still to come. I await the results of this steering committee. In addition to the above solutions, other compensation mechanisms will be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u120	Thank you, Minister. I note that further research is being carried out and that a ministerial directive is being drafted. I hope that effective measures will be taken. In the short term, this should not be an obstacle. I'll be honest with you. Several zones they deliver figures themselves, they do have certain data, they also take account of the actual situation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore believe that action will also have to be taken in the short term against areas which are really totally unwilling. One of the possibilities may even be to reduce or withhold certain federal allowances. I think there's a need for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased to hear that the evaluation shows that the HyCap knows its limits, especially in times of an increased crisis like today. If that takes a long time, know its limits. I suppose and hope that a number of adjustments and indications will be made quickly, so that the pressure on the local areas in West Flanders, Mr President, can be reduced, you are also from West Flanders. Quite specifically, you said that yourself when you listed the parameters. You have said that they are used with common sense. When I refer to my question about the pressure of migration around Calais, people come to the West Flemish police zones, because of the proximity, the language spoken in West Flanders and so on, and they will use that capacity there. I also refer to a statement of reasons, in particular the time to move and the cost of travel if you have to go a long way. This is also being considered and therefore it is very difficult to employ people from Limburg or the other side of the country. I'll keep your promise. You said earlier that you would do everything in your power to get the CIK back to full strength, reducing the pressure on the local zones and also reducing the pressure on the HyCap. This will probably be the greatest effort to enable the local areas to re-focus on issues other than the crisis situation of migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u122	I want to set the record straight. This is foreseen throughout the whole recruitment wave, among other things. You know how we recruit: 1 600...... 1 What does that tell you? The capacity of the schools. That's one thing. A second case. This does not apply to all local areas, but to many local areas. If we have the DAB on our feet and tilt in the security force and extend the DAB to the capacity needed... today, by heart, about 450 people in the security force are working and, according to the calculations, 700 are needed to completely relieve the local police. The commitment to doing so is there. This means, for the areas facing it, that we are releasing 450 full-time equivalents from the local police. Those are all things that should relieve the situation for the local police. But not only the local police are under pressure, including the federal ones. The whole organization is now under pressure. Now it's a little better than when all the crises came together. So all the understanding for the sighs of the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u123	One more comment. I didn't understand it very well with regard to the DirCos. The DirCos do not always give an opinion or a full opinion in the event of refusal. I would urge all DirCos to do something about that. In this way we can see how it is rejected and how it is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u124	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 14166 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u125	Match fixing is a very well-known problem in sport. Politically, it has to be looked at at at different levels: federal, regional and within governments there are also different ministers responsible for it. There have been several controversial cases, of which the most famous undoubtedly was the Zheyun Ye case, in Belgian football. Last year there was also an international bribery affair with tennis players. We see match fixing in various sports: tennis, football, basketball. The biggest problems appear in the football sector, because most people are involved and also because huge amounts of money are deployed. Federbet says that up to 15 million will be wagered on a competition in the highest class in Belgium. In second class, the stakes would be up to 10 million per game. Not all these sums of money that are being wagered, even when it comes to high sums, are seen by Federbet as suspicious without having conducted an investigation. Federbet has a detection system for this, but the algorithms are not such that one can properly verify the suspicious transactions. Match fixing calls for a coordinated approach, precisely because there are so many ministers and departments involved. We know that different levels of administration are currently engaged in the fight against match fixing. I have a number of questions for you, Minister. About the same questions I asked your colleague, Minister None. How many people are involved in match fixing under your jurisdiction? Which services exactly are they? What concrete actions have they taken to combat match fixing in this legislature? How does the consultation between your services and the other federal services proceed? How are contacts with the different regions on match fixing? At what times in this legislature has there been contact with these regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u126	As far as I know, no one is involved in match fixing within my services, but in the fight against match fixing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u127	That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u128	I can tell you that on match fixing and football fraud in 2010, by decision of the then Home Affairs and Justice Ministers, a Football Fraud Report was established. This cell was installed in the lap of the federal judicial police, in particular at the Central Office for Combating Corruption (CDBC). A police national coordinator was appointed. At the level of the federal court, a magistrate-national coordinator was appointed. The hotline not only serves as a knowledge and information centre, but has also been developed operationally in recent years. The national coordinator initiates investigations, leads and coordinates these investigations, all in close consultation and in cooperation with the designated federal magistrate. The hotline can be used at any time and depending on the subject at any time, it is now about corruption, money laundering, tax fraud, social fraud and the other operational services of the DJ/SOC. Depending on the crime scene or the location of the target, co-operation is also carried out with the arrondissemental parquets and the provincial FGPs. For example, for the file match fixing in tennis, DJ/SOC was the coordinator. In the context of match fixing, the police coordinator of the hotline at the CDBC is also national contact point for Interpoltaskforce match fixing and Europol Focal Point Sports Corruption. The Central Office for Combating Corruption makes two liaison officers available to the Game Commission. The liaison officers are responsible, inter alia, for the flow of information between the Game Commission and the entities of the integrated police, structured at two levels. In the context of a judicial investigation, they can be applied on the basis of written orders from the prosecutors to question web operators or to screen athletes for web accounts and gambling behavior. Secondly, the Football and Sport fraud hotline is co-initiator of the government initiative to set up a national platform to combat match fixing, together with IOC and Interpol. This initiative brings together all the actors, in this case the federal and regional competent authorities, a number of umbrella sports federations, the federal prosecutor, the Game Commission and the federal police. At the last meeting of the National Platform, a Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation was finalised. I come to your third question. The Central Office for the Fight against Corruption (CDBC), which is responsible for the Football and Sport fraud hotline, has a supervisory magistrate, member of the federal prosecutor. Half-yearly oral and written reports shall be made to this magistrate. One of the key tasks of the Football and Sport fraud hotline is to acquire knowledge. Bilateral consultation with other federal services is essential. If necessary, there are contacts with the FPS Home Affairs football cell, with liaison officers working at the CFI and with the Gaming Commission. Contacts were made with the Office for Official Ethics and Deontology's Auditor General's Integrity Policy. Operationally, there are close contacts with the national coordinator of the federal prosecutor, the FGP officers, the liaison officers of the Game Commission and other federal police entities, such as Europol liaison officers. Since the end of 2015 and early this year there have been more intensive contacts with the region's regions, with a view to identifying their initiatives to prevent and combat match fixing. On the other hand, the representatives of the region were invited to the open session meeting of the Interpoltaskforce match fixing organised by DJ/SOC in Brussels on 20 and 21 April last. Subsequently, the representatives of the region's regions, the FPS Justice and the FPS Home Affairs were invited to participate in the partnership development day, organised by DJ/SOC, the IOC and Interpol on 22 April last. On this day was brainstormed about the national platform to be established. Through these initiatives a dynamic interaction was established with the Agency Sport Vlaanderen, Adeps and the German-speaking Community, which really pampered itself in a pre-national platform. The single points or contact of the listed organisations are currently also part of the Steering Committee on National Platforms. This steering group has already met four times, independently of the meeting of the national platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for your very full reply. I have no further questions at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u130	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 14183 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 14184 by Mrs Gabriels was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon has already dealt with 14207.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u131	Mr President, Minister, FPS Finance statistics show that the average seizure rate in Antwerp today is more than eight times higher than in 2011. It goes from 81 kilos to 687 kilos. A few weeks ago, customs announced that 2016 would be a top year of cocaine capture. Until August 2016, 21.3 tonnes of cocaine were intercepted in the port of Antwerp. By comparison, in 2012 it was 17,9 tonnes, in 2013 it was 4,6 tonnes, in 2014 it was 8,3 tonnes and in 2015 it was 15,5 tonnes. Belgium is still known as "the turntable' for the traffic of illicit drugs. It is clear that frequent and thorough checks are necessary to address the problem. Based on origin and product, but also on sampling, incoming containers are screened with both fixed scanners on Left and Right Bank, as well as with two mobile scanners. According to the FPS Finance, the Antwerp port has to pass some 32 000 containers through the fixed scanners. About the same number is checked by the mobile units. In total, last year, the Antwerp port handled 9.6 million containers. Only a fraction of this is checked. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Firstly, the seizure is increasing considerably. The supply of cocaine and other illicit drugs has clearly exploded in recent years. Has the fight against illicit drug trafficking also increased? Secondly, what additional measures have you already taken? Finally, only 65 000 of the 9.6 million containers are checked. Will you, as Minister, make efforts to significantly increase controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u132	Mr President, Mr Top, contrary to other types of crime or other crime figures, it is clear that the crime rates on seizures are influenced by and even to a large extent the result of measures taken not only in the production countries, mainly in Central and South America, but also in the police or customs deployments in our country. The bigger and better the latter is, the more seizures can happen. This is the so-called "shadow crime'. In this context, I would like to highlight two points. A very plausible explanation for the increase in seizures and supply may be that in the countries of origin, for example Colombia, they have stopped spraying coca fields because of their possible impact on local public health. The decision to do so was taken in mid-2015 by President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, following a WHO report of March 2015 which stated that the product used to carry out the watering, i.e. pulverising, would have carcinogenic properties for humans. A logical consequence of this is that the production of cocaine continues to increase despite the ongoing struggle by the government in the production countries. Research, both in Belgium and in the Netherlands, shows that the illegal wholesale price of cocaine has also fallen, which seems to support the previous statement on a purely economic principle. Higher production leads to a decrease in the price. As far as the fight itself is concerned, we can say that both the investigators of the FGP Antwerp, department of Drugs, and those of the Customs Investigations Antwerp, team of Drugs, continue to make a strong commitment to these investigations. Information about this is abundant. However, you will also understand that targeted choices need to be made. Both teams of the FGP and Customs seek to use the available human resources as efficiently as possible by, among other things, working very actively together and joining forces. Operational choices are made every day for this purpose, sometimes even opportunities must be deliberately missed. In order not to lose capacity for overlaps, both departments, i.e. the Federal Police and Customs, have for years made a mutual agreement that the FGP Antwerp conducts investigations into the persons and criminal organisations behind the international drug traffic and that the Customs Investigations Antwerp conducts investigations into the flow of goods and also carries out checks and seizures. In terms of the use of other means, it can be argued that classical detection is more high-tech than ever before. Also in this international phenomenon, intercepting communication is an important research tool, a domain in which the Belgian police and investigation services are lagging behind, both in terms of regulation and in terms of tools to be used. More than ever, there is the adage that criminal organisations are not hindered by borders, either geographically or in terms of financial resources. However, that statement does not apply to the government. The integrated and integrated drug policy and the fight against it have been updated both in the Integrated Security Paper and in the National Security Plan for the Integrated Police. In concrete terms, this means that, together with the different partners in the safety chain, preventive, reactive and follow-up measures are developed at the different policy levels. For more information, please refer to both policy documents. More specifically, I would like to emphasise a number of measures. For many years it has been shown that Belgium and the Netherlands are inextricably linked in various respects when it comes to the international traffic of cocaine. That is why both the FGP Antwerp and the FGP West Flanders participate in a core consultation group on Cocaine flows, which was set up at the initiative of the Cocaine programme file manager of the national investigation unit in the Netherlands. The aim is to create an operational and police link between the various actors who are structurally engaged in large-scale cocaine investigations, both in Belgium and the Netherlands. Secondly, the DJ/SOC Drugs closely monitors the impact of work within the EU policy cycle and maintains close contacts with the Focal Point COLA within Europol. Thirdly, there are international contacts and cooperation agreements with the countries of origin. A federal police delegation, led by the Director of International Police Cooperation, has already made a working visit to Colombia at the request of the Commissioner-General in order to strengthen police cooperation between our countries. A memorandum of understanding was also signed. Soon, a joint delegation of federal police, customs, investigations and the public prosecutor will carry out a work visit to Brazil, led by the local liaison officer of the federal police, in order to also promote police and judicial cooperation, as the seizure of 2016 at home and abroad shows that Brazil has become an important supplier country of cocaine for Western Europe through the port of Antwerp. Fourthly, under the leadership of the Port Authority and supported by the Municipal Port Authority Antwerp, a neighbourhood information network Port was established between the companies and the Antwerp port area. This fits in with a broader project Integral Haven, which also focuses on possible corrupting activities of actors working in the port. In addition, initiatives were taken by the Port Captain's Service to establish in the near future a network of ANPR cameras in the port of Antwerp in order to ensure a better follow-up of incoming and outgoing traffic. The services concerned shall implement the various measures in partnership. They also continue to come up with proposals and quick wins that could be further affected in order to strengthen the fight against cocaine imports. Given the division of tasks between the federal police and customs, your third question is for my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt, Minister of Finance. There is a very good cooperation on the ground. Together, the services concerned are looking for measures that can strengthen and support the operation of the police and customs authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u133	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that one day the Nobel Prize will be awarded to the President who will shut down the plantations in his country and replace the crops grown with other plants. The length of your answer indicates the importance of the problem. You have spoken about a number of interventions abroad, in the production countries and in transit countries. This is an indication of the importance of the problem. You have also referred to the price of cocaine offered in Europe, as far as we know it well, from which it can be concluded that the problem is still considerable. I am pleased that the necessary efforts are being made to curb, as far as possible, the transport and distribution of illicit drugs in Europe, particularly in Belgium. I hope that the problem will be closely monitored and that further efforts will be made in the fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u134	Mr. Secretary, do you have until 6:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u135	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u136	You're going to have Mr Nollet ask another question? Mr. Nollet, you have a series of questions. Your question number 13995 concerns the assault of a journalist at the Tihange power station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u137	As the minister makes a gesture, I'll make one too. I suggest that we turn this question into a written question so that we can move on to those that are more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u138	This question is therefore converted into a written question. Then let me first mention that interpellation No. 177 by Mrs Barbara Pas was withdrawn. Then we come to agenda item No. 37. That's the question. 14241 is merged with Question No 14350 by Mrs Leen Dierick. You can ask your question No. 14241 about the follow-up to be given to the information about cyber security flaws in our nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u139	Mr Nollet, we cannot deal with all your questions. Can you tell us which questions you would like to deal with in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u140	I would like to put the first four questions orally. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u141	The 24 in nude...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u142	Agenda item 24, Question No 13995, may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u143	Debates of the European Parliament 14241 you're gonna say now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u144	Mr Minister, I would like to continue with you the exchange that we had already, in plenary on 6 October, on the follow-up to be given to the information that had been released on the cybersecurity flaws in our nuclear power plants. In your answer, you say that "the Federal Nuclear Control Agency has the powers to carry out this control on cybercrime", and here I am reassured. Can you tell me how many people within the Agency are specifically assigned to this task and how long they have been in this responsibility? Can you explain to me their mission so that we can observe what this is all about? The audit clearly shows that there is a cybersecurity problem in Belgian nuclear power plants. Many breaches are identified and 26 major serious breaches are identified. It's huge of course! You'll agree. Not only is the law not respected, but ultra-confidential documents also circulate without the knowledge of Electrobel, which is what the audit says. Obviously, the problem is not new. I would like to know the periodicity of the investigations conducted by the AFCN regarding the cybersecurity of our nuclear power plants. What is the date of the last full risk assessment and the last "penetration test". I would also like you to give us the main conclusions. It's normal that you don't go into detail... To return to the audit of Electrabel, could you tell me on the basis of which article, of which royal decree of 2011, it is configured? That was not clear in your response to the plenary session. According to the company, the audit "is part of our desire to review and adapt our procedures as necessary in order to improve us". However, according to the content of the audit itself, the purpose of the report is to prepare an external audit carried out in the head of the AFCN. What exactly is the situation? Is it the version of Electrabel that is given or the version written in the audit? Is the internal audit yes or not related to an external audit announced by the PSAN? At what specific date did AFCN inform Electrabel that it would initiate such an audit? I would also like to know whether the Federal Agency informed Electrabel, at that time, of the date of completion of its external audit. Taking a step back to finish, do you find it normal for the Federal Nuclear Control Agency to announce to Electrabel in 2014 that it will conduct an audit in 2017? Is it the usual procedure to announce an audit three years in advance? Finally, in your reply in plenary, we have learned the acceleration of the tempo that you have rightly initiated. Thank you again. For the record, the Federal Agency, in its communiqué of the 6th, was still discussing future inspections planned for 2017. You pushed an acceleration by saying that the AFCN must now have carried out its own investigation before November 1st of this year 2016. It is assumed that you already have the first conclusions since we are approaching that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u145	Mr Nollet, since this was a joint question, my answer was prepared in Dutch and French. I will therefore try to translate my entire answer into French. In recent years, several experts have been dedicated to cybersecurity at AFCN and BelV. The aim is to integrate the "cyber" aspects into safety work. In addition to this, three specialized experts have been appointed to deal with very specific subjects. This expertise is quite new. We already have collaborations with other entities such as, for example, the Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium. The full risk assessment and the penetration tests you mention are steps that Engie carries out on initiative. The regulatory framework should be adapted to allow the regulator to impose them and to be more involved. Let me retrace the general framework for the approval of physical protection systems for nuclear installations in order to avoid any misunderstanding. Here I can be much more specific than in plenary. With regard to securing sensitive documents, in 2011 a new legislative framework came into force in Belgium at the initiative of AFCN. This regulatory framework is composed of the Act of 30 March 2011 which, itself, is supplemented by four royal decrees of execution. One of these orders is specifically dedicated to the categorization and protection of nuclear documents. Nuclear operators must comply with the regulations and, since 2011, have taken the necessary action to achieve this, under the continued monitoring of the AFCN. The regulations require each nuclear operator to submit a file with its physical protection system to the AFCN. This includes all measures to ensure the safety of its materials, facilities, documents and transport. The PSAN reviews this file and issues a licence to the operator when it determines that it meets the legal requirements and all measures are being implemented. This procedure for the approval of systems for the physical protection of nuclear installations is a long, demanding procedure involving a series of essential steps. Throughout this process, the AFCN monitors the progress of the operator's work through follow-up meetings, on-site technical visits, controls, notices, and redirects where necessary. These cybersecurity assessments are based on an ongoing exchange between the regulator and the operator, and this exchange is becoming increasingly intense. The 2014-15 internal audit was one of several initiatives undertaken by Electrabel to bring itself into compliance with the regulations. The aim was to identify possible areas for improvement in the management of sensitive documents and to be able to take them into account in the implementation of its physical protection system. Electrabel therefore wanted, through this internal audit, to identify its own flaws in order to remedy them in order to be able to comply with the regulations. Currently, PSAN has received all accreditation files. It is busy analyzing them to see if operators are meeting all regulatory requirements. This analysis is expected to be finalized by early November 2016. Adjustments may be requested from operators, if necessary. The AFCN will monitor implementation. As legally foreseen, from 1 May 2017 (a deadline also coming from the 2011 legislative framework), if the AFCN considers that the physical protection system proposed by the operator is still not satisfactory, it may impose measures, including time limits, on the operator, to be in order, with the means of strengthening provided by law if those time limits were not met. The AFCN will then repropose itself on accreditation. Once the physical protection system has been approved, the PSAN will carry out all controls, checks and analyses that the legislation allows it to carry out. These are steps provided for in this 2011 Royal Order. This does not mean that the FANC cannot act before that date. The nuclear inspector can always take appropriate organizational action if he or she considers it necessary to intervene for the health and safety of employees and the public. This is a procedure that the PSAN follows step by step. With a view to the approval of nuclear installations, it is of course necessary to verify that the categorised nuclear documents are properly treated. With regard to the protection of nuclear documents, the regulatory basis is essentially based on the Royal Decree on the categorization and protection of nuclear documents of 17 October 2011 and, in particular, on articles 7 and 8. Nuclear legislation and regulations require that security clearances be issued to natural and legal persons operating nuclear facilities or processing nuclear documents. The Agency is developing a framework for inspections that it will carry out with the assistance and collaboration of other members of the National Security Authority to ensure that nuclear documents or classified documents are properly processed and retained. I can tell you that, as soon as possible, an audit will be conducted at the operator's headquarters on how to keep and process the classified documents. The AFCN is not aware of any problems with these documents categorized in the past and possible sanctions are described in Chapter 7 of the AFCN Act of April 15, 1994.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u146	Minister, thank you for your answers. Because I feel like something started. You're talking about a change of frame. Indeed, the current framework is not sufficiently precise and sufficiently sensitive to the risks involved. In addition, you say that, as soon as possible, apart from everything that has already been initiated, the Federal Agency will also undertake an audit of the classification and manner in which Electrabel manages classified files. I appreciate this and feel your action behind it. You say the Federal Agency and Bel V have for several years had agents competent in cybercrime. Since when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u147	2010!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u148	2010, very good! You say it's Electrabel who takes the initiative. That is correct: this is a company-specific approach. I asked you about the date of the last full risk assessment and the last penetration test. Unless I'm wrong, you didn't answer me. Your collaborator will be able to provide me with these elements at a later date. I come to the very audit, which has been communicated in the press and which we have forwarded to the chairman of the nuclear safety sub-committee. We'll talk about it tomorrow, anyway. I will read an excerpt, which is on the back page: "This audit is here to prepare an external audit announced by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency". I can't find that in your answer. It's not clear to me yet. Is this something that falls within the scope of Electrabel's own procedures? And so much better if she does; we agree. Or does Electrabel take this initiative because it knows that external control is announced? If so, is it normal for the Agency to warn in this way and when did it do so? Is it possible that she announced the audit in 2014, for example, in 2017? Do you understand my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u149	Yes, yes! I described the different steps in my response. There is ongoing follow-up by the AFCN. I will provide you with a document that clearly highlights the steps. This is only the 2011 Royal Order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u150	Minister, could you apply the principle set out in the Royal Order to this case by telling me when the Federal Agency announces the external audit to Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u151	In my opinion, this is provided for in the royal decree!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u152	I went to check, exactly!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u153	I will provide you with all the elements, because you are right to point out that it is important to know the steps well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u154	The minister will send me a supplement in writing. It's not a problem for me, because I know how it works with him. I suggest you stay there for now. I take note of the progress made. There are still issues to be addressed. I will therefore come back to this matter, Minister, as conclusions will be reached at the beginning of November. We will therefore be able to address the issue that I wanted to address today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u155	Mr Nollet, for your other questions, it will be difficult, because I have to leave. The minister announced that he had to leave at 6:00 p.m. It's almost 6:20.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u156	Mr. President, one more for the road!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u157	So, a short question and an answer just as brief, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u158	Mr. Chair, Minister, at our October 6 plenary meeting, you announced that you had asked the Federal Agency and the Cybersecurity Centre to conduct a joint investigation into plans for nuclear power plants on the darknet. Can you tell us more about this mission, its framework, its timetable, its objectives? Can you also make a first topo on the results of this mission? Admit, indeed, as you did in plenary, that if what appeared in the press was circulating, that would be an issue for us. What did they find on the darknet that is related, little or no, to our nuclear sites? Not only what the press was talking about, but also other things. Are you able to reassure citizens that every effort is being made to remove these kinds of documents from the darknet? Do you confirm Electrabel's first analysis, which stated the following day that they were not confidential documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u159	Mr Nollet, AFCN and the Centre for Cybersecurity in Belgium immediately set themselves around the table, in order to determine the methodology to be followed for the joint investigation of plans for nuclear power plants circulating on the darknet. The CWB is finalizing a screening in order to warn the documents which would be on the darknet and which would relate to the Tihange site and, more generally, to the Belgian nuclear facilities. As soon as these results are finalized, the PSAN will conduct an analysis of the sensitivity of these documents and communicate the results to the parties concerned. If action is required, the AFCN, as the supervisory body, will take responsibility for their implementation within the framework of its powers. First, the Cybersecurity Centre will search the darknet; then, it will transfer what it has found to the Agency. The Agency will be able to assess whether the documents are confidential or not and to identify any other measures that may be taken. The aim is therefore to identify the documents, analyse them and follow up on the necessary measures. Timing depends primarily on the number of documents that will be found and will therefore have to be analyzed. As soon as the results are consolidated, we can inform you or the Committee on Nuclear Safety. This remains to be defined by parliamentarians. I'll be open on this plan. With regard to the removal of such documents from the darknet, I naturally expect that the tandem formed by the Agency and the CWB – each with regard to its competences – will do everything possible. Finally, let us note that the AFCN does not yet have the documents that were mentioned in the press and therefore cannot express itself on their content! It is therefore first the Cybercrime Centre that is searching the darknet to find these documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u160	I understand that the work has begun and is in the process of developing the methodology. It is normal in view of what has happened; I also hear that the Federal Agency does not have the documents and therefore cannot, for the time being, say what is happening. My question was about Electrobel's analysis. Indeed, Electrabel had said the following day that they were not confidential documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u161	I'm not responsible for Electrabel's communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u162	It's better!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u163	Once the documents are in our possession, we conduct the analysis. Then we can confirm or...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u164	A tip: if Electrabel says these are not confidential documents, maybe they can already validate it with the cyber center to save time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u165	Or, they've only seen the documents disclosed in the press, but the Cybercrime Center wants to sweep wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u166	It's to their credit. There is a need to go more broadly. But, at least in relation to these documents, we could already make the clarity since Electrabel says everything is fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u167	I will await the request of the Centre for Cybersecurity and the analysis of the AFCN. I can't confirm anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u168	I understand your caution, but then I wonder whether Electrabel is already saying that everything is fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u169	In that case, you have to question Electrabel and not the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u170	I will. At your request, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u171	At my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic514x.u172	All right. Thank you, anyway, for your availability.
