ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 9587 will be answered in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u2	Mr President, I would like to make a comment on this. Yesterday, I received three different e-mails from the Prime Minister's cabinet on three different questions that would be on the agenda today. I can perfectly agree that my question concerning the Dutch referendum on the Ukraine Treaty will be answered by Minister Reynders. My second question, No. 10125 on the Turkey deal would be presented next week in the Advisory Committee on European Affairs. Does that mean those questions aren't being asked today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u3	We're not there yet, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u4	That announcement wasn't included. I would therefore like clarification on this point. On my third question, No. 9587 on the Minority Convention, I also received an e-mail yesterday. That question, although it was tabled a long time ago, would now be answered by Minister Reynders. That surprises me, because it is just about statements by Minister Reynders, on which I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether they were made on behalf of the entire government and whether Minister Reynders is dealing with them within the terms of the agreement. Isn't that difficult for Minister Reynders to answer himself? I therefore urge you to be able to put that question in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u5	I call the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Pas. I refer to Article 131 (8): "If an interview request is addressed to the Prime Minister, he may order a member of the government responsible to reply to that request.' That's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u6	I know the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, but it would be a credit to you in your role as President should you also respect the content. It is difficult to confront a minister with his own statements. That's gotta be someone responsible. That's what the Prime Minister should do. I expected your support rather than a reference to the Rules of Procedure, which I myself know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u7	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that my cabinet did not send an e-mail directly to the parliamentarian – which would not be appropriate – but to the committee. Secondly, I did not understand that the question about Didier Reynders was about what he said. If this can appease your minds, I can answer the minority question at a future meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u8	That's a deal. Then this item will not be dealt with today. The merged interpellation No. Question No 125, by Mr Crusnière Mrs Matz' 9820 will be dealt with by the Minister for the Interior. Mr Hedebouw is not here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, although our health care system in Belgium is deteriorating, there is still a reference both to the quality of professionals and to broad access to health care. Belgium has always made a strong commitment in international forums and through its development cooperation policies to support quality health programmes for all. However, where we have responsibilities, in Europe, we seem to be turning a blind eye to an unacceptable or even inhuman situation. Since the start of the crisis in 2008, the budget allocated to the national health care system in Greece has been reduced by 50% and it is in direct connection with the conditions that Europe, therefore Belgium, has imposed on Greece in exchange for financial aid. Today, 2.5 million citizens no longer have access to health care in Greece and 25% of Greeks no longer have health coverage. Hospitals are exsangued and surgical operations are suspended very often. There is an increase in infant mortality of 51% – it is huge – a decrease in several immunization coverages, an increase in hospitalizations in public hospitals. In addition, an increasing number of Greek doctors, particularly specialists, are leaving their posts to fill positions abroad, and more than 8,000 qualified nurses are currently unemployed. These are the ingredients of a tragedy that is taking place before our eyes in the heart of our European home. This situation has, of course, only worsened as a result of the refugee crisis that the country has been experiencing for several months now. The question arises as to whether the European bodies take this incredible situation sufficiently into account. There are gestures of solidarity from civil society that I would like to stress. For example, the NGO Médecins du Monde, the Erasmus University Hospital associated with the Free University of Brussels and the CHU Saint-Pierre in Brussels launched a campaign last month called "Emergences Greece. Stop medical grexit" in order to raise awareness among the Belgian population about the current health crisis in Greece. The campaign also aims to raise funds to finance concrete projects on the ground. In addition, three projects have been launched, such as the creation of a new polyclinic or the establishment of a medical solidarity chain for a medical bus with mobile equipment (e.g. ultrasound, biology, spirometer, etc.).). A petition to freeze the health care budget, so that it does not continue to decrease, has also been launched, with the aim of putting pressure on the European authorities. Still, it happens in our own house, in front of our eyes. This is our responsibility. In doing so, Mr Prime Minister, does the European Council intend to deal very quickly with the health situation in Greece in order to propose concrete answers? This question is, in my view, as important as that of Brexit. Several European summits have been organised on this subject, of course, very important, but the situation which is also a matter for discussion. If such a debate were to take place, do you think that concrete measures could be proposed to help Greece? Finally, I come to a question that is not new. In my view, there is no sense of the measures imposed on Greece by the Eurogroup, even though the opinion of the EPSCO Council has not been sought. Before imposing drastic measures, should we not systematically go through the EPSCO box, i.e. the ministers of the social departments, who can sound alarms at certain consequences of measures imposed on one of the Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Greece remains very worrying, whether it is the humanitarian situation in the context of the migration crisis, the public finances that remain precarious, or the health situation. At Eurogroup meetings and Summits of Heads of State and Government, Belgium has always wanted to show solidarity with Greece in return for a firm and determined commitment on the part of the Greek government to the progressive implementation of a number of necessary reforms aimed at gradually improving the economic and social situation in the country. The management of health care in Greece is not within the competence of the European Union and Greece has not yet put this issue on the agenda of the European Council. With regard to your question about the consultation of other Council formations on the decisions taken in the Eurogroup, I would stress that the ministers who sit in the Council of the European Union bodies do so, in principle, on behalf of their governments. It is up to each Member State to ensure that all dimensions of the topics discussed are taken into account and that all its members participate in the elaboration of its mandate through the appropriate coordination mechanisms. I would like to add that Greece, it seems to me, would also have the capacity to take the initiative in the Council which brings together the ministers responsible for social matters, as you mentioned. I imagine that if such an initiative were taken, the other Member States, and in any case Belgium, would allow a substantive debate to take place on the issues related to the social implications of the programmes decided. On the other hand, I must mention that Greece uses technical assistance in implementing the reforms it has undertaken to undertake. In this context too, the Belgian authorities have not limited themselves to financial support through bilateral loans via the European Stability Mechanism. We have been one of the most active Member States in providing technical assistance to Greece, inter alia in areas such as tax collection, combating VAT carousels, improving customs services and modernising the Greek healthcare system in which INAMI has been involved. Recently, Belgium has communicated to the Greek partners its wish to explore the possibility of extending this technical assistance to the development of a universal health care system, an area in which Greece is seeking technical assistance from a European partner. I am convinced that this technical assistance is one of the most operational levers in trying to support Greece in its desire to provide quality health care for its population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you. On the one hand, you tell me that the situation is dramatic and that, as a general rule, following decisions taken by the European bodies, Belgium plays an active role in technical assistance. On the other hand, you are telling me that you are available to support a possible Greek initiative that would bring the health debate within, for example, the EPSCO. I think that's good news. Therefore, in the motion following the inquiry, I will add or amend an item to support a Belgian Government initiative that would complement the Greek request for a general debate within the EPSCO on health care in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u12	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government 1. Within the European Council, to urge the organisation of an EPSCO Council on the dramatic health situation in Greece at present; 2. to support any Greek initiative within the Council in this respect; 3. that our country, in the various formations of the Council, cooperate actively so that concrete responses and assistance measures can be taken to help Greece and its people in this context; 4. within the European Council, to require that the EPSCO Council be systematically consulted when a European body (Eurogroup, European Commission, etc.) take measures directly affecting the social protection and public health of the population of one or more Member States." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the government 1. urge the European Council to organise an EPSCO Council in view of the current dramatic health situation in Greece; 2. to support any Greek initiative to this end in the Council; 3. that our country would actively cooperate in the various Council configurations so that concrete solutions could be provided and support measures could be taken to help Greece and its people in this context; 4. require the EPSCO Council to be systematically consulted in future when a European body (Eurogroup, European Commission, etc.) adopt measures that have direct repercussions on social protection and public health in one or more Member States." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Richard Miller. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u13	Mr Crusnière is not here. I would also point out that the issue of questions is also addressed in the Advisory Committee on European Affairs. However, this does not prevent the applicants from asking the Prime Minister their question here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u14	Prime Minister, these questions relate to what was agreed at the European summit and, above all, to the effects that we have seen so far on the ground. We cannot be very proud of the refugee agreement between Europe and Turkey, in all honesty. There's too many moral hookups, too many legal questions. I questioned you in plenary about the pre-agreement, and you said that you would examine the legal consequences, and then determine the position to be taken on 17 and 18 March. I have a general question first. To what extent did you elaborate on these legal doubts? Did you bring that up? I remember that a country such as Spain expressed a lot of doubts about this. Firstly, there is a problem when refugees arriving in the European Union, particularly Greece, do not allow them to go through a full asylum procedure in the European Union. We are sending some of these refugees back to Turkey, which means that we are denying them the right to asylum in Europe. That is already very problematic. Moreover, we do not achieve the goal of one-on-one. According to the figures from the European Commission in April, which I have at my disposal, 300 refugees have so far been returned and only some 70 refugees have been taken back from Turkey as part of the so-called resettlement. Can you confirm or contradict that? Secondly, to what extent does Belgium regard Turkey as a safe country? That is very important. If we send refugees back to Turkey, we must be able to count on them to apply for asylum there, to work there, to have their children educated there. Especially for Syrians, this is not the case in Turkey. To what extent can we rely on Turkey, and to what extent can it be morally justified for us to return refugees to such a country? Thirdly, according to Amnesty International, Turkey has recently been putting more and more Syrian refugees back across the border. We are talking about 100 refugees per day being put back on the Turkish-Syria border. This goes against all international law and any normal moral awareness. How do you respond, because Turkey is an important partner in the refugee agreement, which you have concluded with other European countries? Finally, what financial resources will we, and will Europe, devote to reception in our own region and to whom exactly are the funds transferred?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u15	Prime Minister, a number of questions have already become obsolete. We are not in favour of the one-for-one principle, as has already been said during Question Time in plenary on the basis of the pre-agreement, because this is creating a new migrant carousel. This does not seem to work at all in practice, as the previous speaker has already underlined. We read yesterday in the newspapers that, as feared, the flow of refugees does not cease but simply moves. The Italian Government is already expecting a 200 000 asylum seekers in the coming summer. So the problem just moves. So the pre-agreement does not mean a solution, as we have said before. I have a number of very specific questions, which I wanted to put at the time of the pre-agreement and to which I would like another answer. Firstly, has the government investigated the information on Turkey's arms deliveries to IS and the import of IS oil by Turkey? That's an old one. We have never been given a clear explanation as to whether that aspect was at least discussed in the whole deal that has been reached with Turkey. Secondly, when I asked my question at the time, Erdogan had a pro-women's rights demonstration in Istanbul on International Women's Day, on 8 March 2016. Did the government respond to that? By the way, I think there is a rise in the freedom of the press in general. I have some questions about that aspect to Minister Reynders this afternoon, however, with regard to Turkey. Thirdly, I asked this question in plenary, but I did not receive a clear answer. Does the government agree in principle to a visa waiver for Turkish citizens? If so, what are the consequences of the visa waiver? Are there any forecasts from the European Commission on immigration of Turks and Kurdish refugees as a result of the visa waiver? Fourthly, we could also hear that aid workers on the ground are questioning whether there are actually 2.7 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. Is there systematic monitoring by the European Union? In what way does this control take place? Finally, Prime Minister, the deal with Turkey is also relaunching the whole debate on quotas. I would have liked to know what the Belgian Government's position is on this matter. Does this government join the so-called coalition of the willing around Merkel? If so, how many asylum seekers is this government prepared to take over from Turkey? If not, is this government ready to finally publicly distance itself from Merkel's policy? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u16	Mr Crusnière is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u17	Mr President, the EU-Turkey Agreement of 18 March 2016 entered into force on 20 March 2016. The aim is to stop irregular migration from Turkey to the European Union and to replace it with a legal form of resettlement of refugees in the European Union. From the outset, I made it clear that I would only agree to an agreement on the condition that international legal standards and European regulations are fully respected, as confirmed by the European Commission. Of the approximately 55 000 migrants currently in Greece, 50 000 arrived before 20 March. For them, the former system, i.e. relocation for those eligible, applies to the others. These migrants are on the mainland, the conditions of their reception deteriorate. The remaining 5 000 migrants arrived from 20 March and are stuck in the hotspots on the islands, which were transformed into closed centres. They are covered by the EU agreement, which is that all new irregular migrants are taken back by Turkey. These people can still apply for asylum. These asylum applications will be dealt with in accordance with current EU legislation. Anyone whose application for asylum is refused or found unfounded or inadmissible on the basis of the EU Asylum Procedure Directive will then be returned to Turkey. For each Syrian returned to Turkey, one other Syrian can be placed in Europe on the basis of the outstanding resettlement promise, the one-for-one system. A further 18 000 of the 22 000 resettlements approved in July 2015 can be completed. Then there will be a resettlement system. In theory, that system should dry up the power pretty quickly, after which there will be a voluntary resettlement system. On April 4, the first migrants were sent back. In concrete terms, 202 people were involved. The agreement with Turkey also raises the issue of visa liberalisation. You know that this was already planned, but Ankara wanted to speed this up. Visa liberalisation can only be achieved if Turkey meets all the requirements and technical conditions. In other words, there is no commitment to results. So the ball is in Turkey's camp, which has to produce concrete results. There are still a lot of legislative and technical criteria that Turkey should meet. There is no political commitment, certainly not from Belgium and the European Union, to visa liberalisation without Turkey's approval of the technical criteria. I have already said this in the Chamber's plenary session, and I repeat it here once again. We are very clear on that. In the framework of the visa dialogue, the European Commission shall assess the impact of any visa waiver on the migration situation. That impact will normally be manageable. Finally, the aim is still to strengthen the European Union's support for refugee reception capacity in Turkey. Additional support for Syrian refugees in Turkey is only envisaged if the first EUR 3 billion granted was used effectively. So it's not a blank check. It is still a matter of support for international and non-governmental organisations active in the field. This support does not go to the Turkish Government. The European Union is in contact with the UNHCR which is planning a major verification project on the registration of Syrians in Turkey. The aim is to verify and complete the registration of Syrian refugees. Belgium has not entered into any additional commitments regarding resettlement or relocation. We must first implement our commitments made in 2015. As far as the human rights situation in Turkey is concerned, I have clearly reiterated Belgium's concerns about recent developments, particularly with regard to freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The Council's conclusions, at my explicit request, refer again to the problem of freedom of the press, which is increasingly at risk in Turkey. Together with the Benelux countries, I have also called for the rapid drafting of an operational plan to manage support for Greece. Belgium will send three agents from the CGVS and two agents from the DVZ to Greece very soon. These efforts will be strengthened in line with Greece's needs for the EASO. Belgium has also provided humanitarian aid through B-FAST in the form of 200 tents and 2 300 blankets. Finally, with regard to information on arms deliveries by Turkey to IS and the import of IS oil by Turkey, I officially have no knowledge of hard and credible sources that would confirm such claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u18	Prime Minister, I fear that the way in which the agreement is interpreted does not correspond to what is happening in practice. You say that people arriving in Greece can effectively apply for asylum. That asylum application will then be examined. People arriving irregularly will then be sent back to Turkey. However, Syrians are also being sent back. How is that possible? Syrians are entitled to asylum, including in our country. The rate of recognition is 95%. So this isn't right. Syrians should be able to stay here. Yet they are sent back to Turkey. This agreement is therefore not in line with how it is interpreted. Moreover, there is no one-to-one relationship for resettlement from Turkey compared to those who are sent back to Turkey. Anyway, we're in the early stages. Hopefully, that'll come. Moreover, Syrians who are sent back to Turkey end up in a country where they have very few rights. How can you defend that? Turkey is not a safe country. There is no right to asylum. Those kids don't get education there. What are we doing? We keep the borders closed, we send people back to Turkey but that is not in accordance with how we deal with asylum, how we deal with war refugees. We have a decades-long tradition of good governance in this area and we are throwing it overboard. Let me give you an example. You did not go into it, but I did not submit my question in writing either. Maybe you can do that in the advisory committee next week. The expulsions by Turkey from refugees to Syria is not normal, is it? Every day 100 Syrian refugees, pushing back from Turkey to Syria. We then enter into agreements with a country that does something like this. In my opinion, no party here in Belgium is defending the return of Syrian war refugees to war zones. None. There will be absolute consensus on this. We shall look back on that agreement with Turkey with great shame. It is also not conclusive because people are still dying in the Mediterranean. As the honourable Member has just said, the routes will be moving. The agreement does not therefore provide a definitive guarantee on the death toll in the Mediterranean. I ask you to think and set a good example in the European fora and in your own policies to implement resettlement according to the 2015 promises, but also in 2014. There is always a gap between what is promised and what is realized. This also applies to your government's discourse. Racism is lurking around the corner in our society. It gets worse every day. Every politician must counterweight and set an example. We must not fall into the trap and go along with the so-called gut feeling of the people. We must be courageous and dare to counter xenophobia and populism that are actually emerging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Of course, you cannot convince us that the Turkey deal offers a solution. We must, on the one hand, establish that the problem is simply shifting. We see that today and all other forecasts confirm that the flow from Greece is moving to Italy and that other routes are being sought. On the other hand, one simply creates a new problem. The cure seems worse than the ailment. You refer to a number of technical criteria that Turkey still has to meet on the visa requirement, which, unfortunately, was scheduled for the end of this year, but has now been brought forward. However, you do not answer my question about the forecasts of the consequences of abolishing that visa requirement. It is an open invitation to 78 million Turks to strengthen the migratory wave in Europe. What is certainly not taken into account is that 10 to 15 million Kurds in Turkey are being massacred by Erdogan, if I may say so, and that will, of course, trigger a new stream of refugees. In addition to the ferry services that already exist, so to speak, an Air Turkey will also be deployed. So the problem is made bigger than it already is. I have not received an answer to a number of questions. I will therefore make another attempt in the advisory committee next week. I hope that you will realise as soon as possible that the cure is worse than the disease and that this deal really does not provide a solution, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 10634 will be answered in the Committee on Finance and the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u21	Prime Minister, I did not know that my question would be all the more relevant because a minister from another level of authority had to resign for a problem with his cabinet. However, that is not the purpose of my question as such. The former Chief of Staff of the Minister of Finance is seeking, in his new role as a lawyer, multinationals on the issue of excess profit ruling. In particular, it suggests that they take action against the Belgian State, its former employer. We can really be astonished by the intervention of Messrs. Isenbaert and Bielen, another former member of Van Overveldt, in this case. From a ethical and legal point of view, are they not using information of which they have become aware in the course of their duties within the Finance Office for the purpose of personal gain and, where appropriate, against their former employer, the Belgian State? I am thinking on behalf of the companies concerned, the nature of the decision taken by the European Commission and its arguments, the timing of the case, etc. This raises more generally the question of ethical and non-competitive conditions to be met by former members of federal ministerial offices. A circular dated 5 May 2014 aims precisely to mitigate the risk of conflict of interest in the head of senior officials – who are not exactly cabinet members, even if an analogy is permitted – through a drumstick mechanism or, in English, revolving door. In other words, once we've walked through the door, we can't go back. As is the case in the private sector, this principle presupposes respect for the former employer. Prime Minister, what is your analysis of this situation that you have probably also discovered in the press? What do you think from a ethical point of view? Are former members of federal cabinets not subject, like senior officials, to this principle of revolving door and to the circular of May 5, 2014? In your opinion, Messrs. Did Isenbaert and Bielen not violate this principle? If there is no rule, do you intend to specify or remind them in order to avoid in other firms this type of way of acting that is disturbing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u22	Mr Gilkinet, thank you for your question. Just like you, I was able to get to know the things you've just exposed. According to the information available to me, the persons concerned held respectively the position of Director from 11 October 2014 to 19 March 2015, as Deputy Director from 16 October 2014 to 18 April 2015, within the strategic cell of the Minister of Finance. They therefore left these positions before the European Commission's ruling on the matter. Each member of the federal government, as is the case for federated entities, is assisted by both its administration and its strategic unit - commonly known as its ministerial cabinet - to carry out its various executive missions. This strategic unit is composed of both implementing and substantive staff. With regard to the appointment of members of the strategic cells, there are a number of general rules, particularly with regard to recruitment. A screening of competencies must be carried out according to the profile sought and the persons engaged are at the discretion of the Minister under a ministerial order. A number of rules also surround the missions of these collaborators. Specific subjects and tasks are assigned to them in the course of their duties, under the direction of the Chief of Staff who organises the work within the strategic unit. Putting in the service of a federal government also implies a certain duty of reserve and discretion. According to the information available to me, no legal or ethical rules were breached during the commitment period. The persons concerned left their jobs in the firm before joining professional activities in the private sector. The circular of 5 May 2014 that you mentioned is aimed at public servants and has as its main objective to combat the risks of conflict of interest in the particular field of public procurement. In concrete terms, this is to prevent the so-called "tourniquet" mechanism. This implies that there is a direct link between the previous activities carried out by the person for the contracting authority and his activities in the context of the contract. This circular does not prohibit the pursuit of a professional activity in a given sector. Firm collaborators are often chosen for expertise acquired as a result of experience in the private sector or in the administration, from which they can be seconded. I would add that a mandate in a firm is mostly temporary and is not intended to be indefinite, not to say indefinite. It is therefore common, and I would say it is legitimate, for the persons concerned to be able to pursue a professional activity in a sector of activity which they know. However, I would like to acknowledge with you that there may be a debate, for example in the Federal Ethics Commission, which depends on the federal parliament. It could make interesting opinions, which the government could draw on. I am thinking of the question of the length of time which may exist in certain departments and which is similar to what may sometimes exist in the private sector. This is the idea that there is a delay between the time of an end of duty and the resumption of activities in a given sector. This exists at European level for certain functions. But this debate must be seen in its broad sense. There are, for example, in ministerial offices people from the trade unions sector, mutuals, development cooperation which, at some point, resume activities in the sectors in which they are active. It is therefore necessary to look at this issue from a broad perspective and to take into account the legitimate right of everyone to return to a professional future, having carried a professional commitment in a ministerial cabinet. This requires nuance. This can be the subject of useful reflection in parliamentary work, which the government could draw on. I would add that, in most cases, where a period of duration exists in certain administrations, as is the case at European level, compensation is provided for during the period mentioned above. This is something that needs to be taken into account. Finally, I draw attention to the difference between a staff member in a firm and a statutory official. Indeed, a collaborator in a firm is not necessarily appointed. A staff member who comes from the private sector is recruited to perform a temporary function while a staff member appointed or who has an indeterminate contract enjoys professional stability and may join, after the end of his or her post in a firm, the department of origin from which he or she has drawn his or her expertise. That, honourable Member, is the few things I wanted to share with you with a lot of openness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic376x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for this exchange and for these thoughts. However, I find you very and too careful with regard to this case. I analyse your answer and assume that you are covering this attitude and this professional development of the former Chief of Staff of the Minister of Finance, who, I repeat, proposes to multinational companies to bring the Belgian state to justice against the issue of excess profit ruling. Personally, it shockes me, unlike you. Firm members certainly have the merit of putting their professional careers in parentheses. They have to get back to work later. But it seems to me that there is a gap in the law and general rules applicable within the federal government to cabinet members. These non-competition clauses should really be clarified, possibly – the concept is meaningful – a period of duration. I make the difference between returning to his original occupation and approaching companies to attack his former employer. You mentioned trade unions, mutuals. The civil service can also be mentioned. Imagine, in the private sector, a legal director of some company based in the square who, six months later, would tell his former clients that he would help them attack his former employer. It's simply unimaginable, but you don't seem to be offended as much as I am. In general, I encourage the federal government to add non-competition rules to the general rules for cabinet members after they leave the firm. That would be a positive way to bounce back. We could also refer the matter to the Federal Ethics Commission as soon as it is established, which we look forward to as ecologists. This is one of the elements related to the latest state reform that can lead to significant progress in governance. However, it is still not in place, but it is not the sole responsibility of the government, I agree. I therefore call on all the political formations involved in the appointment of the members of this Federal Ethics Commission to act and to find the candidates who will enable us to train it and then to give it work. There is, in this case, an interesting school case.
