ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u1	Mr Pivin has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u2	Mr President, Minister, you approved, several months ago now, a pilot project aimed at organizing the recruitment of police officers by the commune of Antwerp itself, over and above all the selection procedures usually set up at the federal level. We know that the City of Antwerp intends to hire nearly 500 agents during a test period that began in spring 2016. The aim is to ensure that police officers are more representative of their citizens. In fact, it is also a way, I believe, of giving local authorities more powers in this area and thus escaping the objective criteria imposed by federal procedures. In any event, the pilot project has been running for a short time in Antwerp and I would like to know what is the status of the communal recruitment procedures. Minister, how many police officers have been recruited by the City? Are engagement procedures faster than through the federal official channel? How are selections organized in a practical way? How long will the City of Antwerp be able to carry out these recruitments as part of this pilot project? How will the future be announced for the City? What findings or conclusions can already be drawn from this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u3	Minister, at the committee meeting of 28 October 2015, you proposed the pilot project on recruitment to the police. That project meant that the local police area of Antwerp itself could do a specific recruitment, especially aimed at Antwerp young people with various backgrounds. Several police areas had complained because they were not involved in the selection and distribution of the new agents. As a result, the diversity of society is not sufficiently reflected in the composition of these police forces. The Antwerp pilot project would be evaluated after six months to decide whether the project could be extended to other police areas. During a debate in Ghent, you announced that the city council of Ghent will soon be able to recruit its own agents. Minister, what evaluation was made after six months? What increase do you see in the number of Antwerpers with immigrant roots applying for a job in the police? Which cities and or zones can join the project in the short term? From when will Ghent and or other zones be able to recruit themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u4	Mr President, thank you for these questions. I will answer Mr Top's first question and Mr Top's second question and Mrs Ben Hamou's third question together. At the end of August 2016, a few weeks ago, I received twice a delegation from the local police in Antwerp and the federal police to discuss the interim evaluation of the local police area project in Antwerp. This concerns recruitment, selection and training to increase diversity. It is clear from these discussions that this project and the way in which it takes shape generate positive results, but that the project also has a significant impact on the Antwerp police force and the federal entity. Within the federal entity, it is obviously the recruitment and selection department that has an impact, and not the least in terms of the start-up phase and the resources it requires. The personnel recruitment project was launched in autumn 2015 in order to meet the specific needs of the local police force in Antwerp, to address the impending wave of retirements, to recruit from all levels of education, to bring more diversity within the police force to reflect the Antwerp urban context, to shorten the time required for the recruitment process, to increase the percentage of success and to attract 100 candidates. This is a two-year pilot project. In the summer vacation of 2016, as I said, the first evaluation was made. Until last year, the average selection procedure lasted between 8 and 12 months. This was reduced in the pilot project to an average lead time of 4 months. The preliminaries to accompany candidates have paid off. The success rate is 4 % higher than the success rate of the selections organized federally. The limited difference is partly explained by the fact that a significant number of the candidates had followed vocational education. Candidates from the city or the province of Antwerp are mainly attracted. That was also explicitly the intention. The project was positively experienced by all involved partners: the local police Antwerp, the training school Campus Vesta and the federal police. The campaign will be re-launched, giving priority, inter alia, to a single digital platform to register and process candidates. This digital platform was gradually developed during the first months of the pilot project and is now ready. Let me give you some concrete figures. Between the start of the recruitment campaign and now more than 800 candidates have signed up for the job of inspector of the local police Antwerp: 27 % of them have a migration background, 23 % are women, 80 % are from the province of Antwerp, of which 30 percent are from the city. The average age of the candidates is 26 years. Thirty prospective inspectors started on 1 September 2016 at Campus Vesta. The first class has 4 women and 26 men and 14 percent have a Moroccan, Turkish or Dutch migration background. The selection shall be carried out in accordance with the regulatory framework. The competency model and key competencies are identical. This means that federal procedures and standards are used, that the selection tests and tests used are the same, and that the chairman of the selection board and the deliberation board is part of the federal police recruitment and selection department, as I have already indicated. Local assessors can be offered by the local police in Antwerp. Mrs Ben Hamou, for your second question, on 28 October 2015, I have already explained in my reply in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service to the questions attached to this pilot project that it would be assessed in its entirety after two years. Mr Top, as far as your second question is concerned, I cannot give you any figures on the evolution of the number of immigrants, since there were no figures. However, I can tell you that of the candidates who applied for their own recruitment, 27 % had a migration background. For the first evaluation, I asked the two partners to brief the local corps on what all this means and to examine what new projects could be put in place. New initiatives will be based on the experience of the Antwerp local police and on the presentation she gave me. We will give exactly that presentation through the Permanent Committee of the Local Police to all the corps interested in joining the project. Antwerp has also indicated the resources it has put into human resources and information technology with the IT platform, what the results are, what the positive points are and how it will, if necessary, adjust. So not everyone will be able to get into the project. We need resources to counter this. In doing so, we would like to use the Flemish model of the emancipated municipality in the context of spatial planning. If local corps meet certain conditions, they can cover part of the recruitment process. Then all the federal police have to do is audit. Based on the standardised working hypothesis, with input of resources from the supporting entity and the requesting entity, the local and federal police, there will be a limited or broader offer. At the moment, a limited number of police zones have already officially asked Ghent, Machelen-Vilvoorde, Mechelen-Willebroek, Brussels Capital-Elsene and a few more zones to launch a project similar to that in the Antwerp police area, but because I regularly go on the ground, I know that everyone is looking at it and sooner or later wants to get into something like this. That is why I think it is very important to organise an information session for the Permanent Committee of the Local Police, together with the interested zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u5	I thank the minister for his answers. It is more than time for the authorities to be more representative of their citizens, but I still had one question to ask about the practical questions of selection. How's it going? Is it taking place in the municipality itself or in the federal government? I can't quite understand the mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u6	A distinction is made: recruitment involves advertising to attract candidates. This is achieved by the areas themselves, in the neighbourhoods, in education. Then we receive the applications and then we start the selection phase. This is managed by the Fedpol area and recruitment service, the federal police, together. The role of fedpol is to check whether the criteria correspond and are applied. Then Antwerp developed a specific system, which guides people. We don't lower standards, but we go with the candidates. If they succeed, they pass, but if they fail, we look at what we have to do with them for them to succeed. This takes place during the selection phase, but also during the education and training phase. Here too, accompaniment is provided by the local areas. What does that mean? It's really an investment on the side of the local area. That is why I say that each area cannot make these efforts. Mr President, I am prepared to make this presentation also before the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u7	Yes, I would. It would be interesting to see how this is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u8	It would be interesting to see the lessons to be learned, and what was the approach to Antwerp. On some points, they say they need to improve, because everything wasn't right at first sight. We can really organize a session with the federal police and the Antwerp area to present this interim evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u9	Yes, we take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to my first two questions, I have no further comments, except that we want a clearer presentation of the evaluation so that it can be discussed here in committee. The answer to my second question is sufficient in relation to the employment of immigrant candidates. You have given the figures and said that you cannot make a comparison. That's not a problem. However, at one point, you said that I asked both partners to communicate and agree further. Are you referring to the permanent committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u11	No, I have asked the Standing Committee to organise a session for the zones now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u12	So this is a session of the Standing Commission with the candidate areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u13	Yes. He'll give us the presentation we got.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u14	By what time would that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u15	That'll be very soon. I mean by mid-October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u16	When's the next step? When will other areas that are candidates be able to enter the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u17	There are a number of conditions. We will look into which areas are ready and are interested. Then we will sit at the table with these zones and see what recruitment needs they have. That will be done gradually.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u18	You spoke of terms. It was about the concept of emancipated zones. May I conclude that the Antwerp zone was already finished at that time, or that this was the result of the evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u19	I believe that we will not really have evolved until the end of the two-year period into a model of an emancipated zone. It's trial and error. We learn from this which conditions must be met. That's not finished yet. Antwerp is also not completely deported, because the federal police still invests a lot of time in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u20	That's dust for another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u21	I cannot say today that Antwerp already enjoys the furthest form of detachment. Not at all. I do believe that we can do this, and that fedpol should only act as an auditor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u22	So you're not gonna interfere anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u23	That's right, but that's gonna take some time. By the way, Antwerp has indicated that, in the case of 27% immigrants, such recruitment rates have never been achieved in the past. But I don't have a basis for comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u24	Hopefully they will not go to Mechelen, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u25	It is a pity that the regulation of work has just been completed, otherwise we might have added that point. That's how it goes: everything goes one step at a time. However, I will include it in any way in order to organise it, regardless of the arrangements for the work. There was a majority of Members at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 13126 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 13135 will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Foret's 13139 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13141 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 13147, 13148, 13149, 13151 and 13158 by Mr Pivin are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 13174's question is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 13197 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u27	Mr Minister, since January 2012, the Flemish tax authorities have been monitoring the effective payment of vehicle traffic taxes in the field. If this is not the case, the vehicles shall be removed from service and the driver shall be asked for the unbearable choice: either to pay immediately or to leave the vehicle on the spot. For the control of other matters, such as on-board documents, compulsory insurance and the time limit for the technical inspection, local police teams were used in addition. In 2015, the Flemish tax authorities announced that they would increase checks on road tax payers. For this purpose, the existing networks of ANPR cameras from the local police zones would be used. The local police zone Turnhout was the zone with most ANPR cameras on its territory, i.e. about fifty. It was therefore selected for a pilot project. In order to detect offenders through the ANPR camera network, the Flemish tax authorities had to periodically supply blacklists to the local police zones. I have seen that there was also a question in the Flemish Parliament to Minister Bart Tommelein. Question No 5, by Mr De Pasquale 301 of 10 June 2016 by my party colleague Paul Van Miert. The reply shows that cooperation was limited to exchanging data on lorries, especially lorries of more than 12 tonnes which were not in line with their annual traffic tax returns. However, the control of the annual traffic tax for passenger cars did not appear to have a legal basis to give the police the power to do so. That was confirmed in the press in mid-August. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, what vision do you have to optimise the cooperation between the Flemish tax authorities and the police on annual traffic taxes? Is it intended to create a new legal basis that will allow better cooperation? Secondly, is there still cooperation for the lorries? Thirdly, is the police supposed to receive additional compensation for this additional work? How much would that be? Where's the money coming from? Fourthly, is it intended that the police and the Flemish tax authorities should cooperate better in other ways in order to achieve the same goal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u28	Indeed, cooperation was chosen to be limited to lorries with a maximum authorised mass of more than 12 tonnes, as a determination of effective use is needed to proceed with the fine. For this type of truck, traffic tax is paid on the basis of a declaration of effective use, unlike registered passenger vehicles, for which annual traffic tax is payable. A determination by an authorised official or via ANPR camera is therefore not necessary for the latter category. ANPR unique bets for real-time intercepting of vehicles that are not in order with the traffic load are not on the agenda. The police services do not have sufficient intervention capacity for this purpose. Whether or not to use local police for such tasks falls within the competence of the local level. Moreover, in the middle of the ongoing key tasks debate, it would be illogical to impose additional burdens on police forces on a new improper task. However, it is possible, and in practice this is already happening, that organized actions are carried out jointly by the police and the Flemish tax authorities. I am very much in favour of such coordinated actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u29	Thank you, Minister. I am also very much in favour of this. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked the question. I understand, however, that, in view of the core tasks debate and the existing budgets, it is not always possible to place them in the same basket. It might have been possible for the Flemish tax authorities to partly finance that work of the police, especially because he is the beneficiary of it. That will be something for the long or very long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u30	Mr Minister, I read that at the end of June, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls pointed out that there was a problem of extreme left-wing groups that were involved in violent derailments during the events that were taking place against the Loi Travail. They use social media in particular. They don't do it via classical social media Facebook and so on but via very specific websites. In many of these countries, the Indymedia website is an important platform to launch such calls and to subsequently report on such actions. The phenomenon also occurs in other neighbouring countries. In Germany, for example, there is an Internet platform Linksunten that Indymedia.org uses to make a list of participants of a party meeting of the political party Alternative für Deutschland public. Making such lists public is, of course, illegal. One could require the website manager to delete it. One could file a criminal complaint. This is, of course, only the case if this is possible. In the case of Indymedia, this is not possible or hardly usable. After all, Indymedia is not a website but is a network of different news sites of different media activists working according to a principle of open communication. If I just type Indymedia with the classic Wikipedia, Wikipedia immediately points out the main problem: however, it is unclear who is funding Indymedia and which persons or bodies are behind it. The servers are always located in other countries. Thus, the servers would now be in Brazil. Domains are not registered in their own country and there are no names of those responsible. The problem of these anonymous websites with content that calls for violence or which may be against our society is quite similar to that of Salafist and jihadist websites. Hence my questions. Firstly, how do police and intelligence services follow these extremely left-wing Internet sites that call for and report on action by force or not? Secondly, there are several sites of Indymedia. Some have already disappeared. Is it clear to the Belgian government where these servers are located, who is responsible for the website and also for which web page? Thirdly, have any illegal actions been identified on the Indymedia sites and on other similar extreme links over the past five years? Have these findings led to investigative actions? Did that also lead to judicial convictions? If so, can you tell me which one? Fourthly, what is your view on the possible need to better follow up websites with unknown financiers, unknown editors and messages that oppose our society in a non-democratic way and in certain cases address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u31	Mr President, the websites known to police forces on the extreme left are regularly reviewed. Monitoring shall be carried out in order to detect any violent activities or violent propaganda. The succession takes place at two levels: the administrative police and the judicial police. As far as the administrative police are concerned, the sites are monitored in the framework of the administrative police and public order. The aim is to have an overview of the activities, but also of the announcements of events and meetings. Operational information and information from freely accessible, open sources shall be used for the monitoring of the groups to be followed. This includes classical social media. The consultation of these open sources takes place either selectively, in function of a specific event or at random, in search of new, concrete and relevant information. Also freely accessible blogs and various news forums like Indymedia are among these open sources. The Administrative Police Operations Service also has a monitoring tool that allows to monitor specific events, phenomena and groups over a longer period of time. The search results obtained shall be included in the police database, in so far as they are adequate, relevant, serving and not excessive in nature. As far as the judicial police are concerned, there is a monitoring of the content and detection of illegal announcements and calls for actions. In the event of an infringement being found, a report shall be drawn up on behalf of the author and/or the group. Illegal content, such as hate calls, murder calls, acts of violence or acts of violence and violent or terrorist propaganda, will automatically be removed through the provider itself in the cases I have just mentioned, the terms or service are not respected, or through the police services, by means of legal proceedings. If the site is unknown or new, the information must be transferred to the territorially responsible authority and then the site is fully analysed to find illegal traces. I cannot answer your second and third questions because this matter falls within the competence of Mr Geens. I therefore propose that you put these questions to the Committee on Justice. To your fourth question I can answer that extremelylinky sites are already being monitored and that will remain the case. When illegal activities are identified, the police and the judicial authorities will do the necessary. Such judicial proceedings also fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u32	Minister, I will address myself to the Minister of Justice for questions falling within his competence. I am actually quite satisfied with the answer I have heard today, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u33	Minister, the Law of 16 January 2013 on various measures to combat maritime piracy allows shipping companies flying the Belgian flag to use private security companies to protect shipboarders from piracy in maritime areas at risk. In June 2015, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending Article 30 of the Act was informed that two maritime safety companies were authorised at the time and that several other applications were pending. The law is only valid in the areas indicated in a royal decree. To the extent that my information is correct, it is currently only about the coast of Somalia. Which were the two maritime safety companies authorised at that time? In the meantime, how many other maritime safety companies have been authorised? Were there any reasons for refusing certain companies? If so, what reasons? How many maritime safety companies have applied for permits so far? What is the average duration between the application and the decision? How many times have shipping companies already used maritime safety companies on the basis of the Law of 16 January 2013? How many shipping companies did that? How many incidents of maritime piracy have there been with Belgian flag ships since the entry into force of the Law of 16 January 2013? Is there currently a question or need to apply the law to places other than those off the coast of Somalia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u34	Mr Vermeulen, firstly, the two maritime safety companies already authorised at the time of the amendment of the Act of 10 April 1990, regulating private and special security, in 2015, were ESC, based in Estonia, and Diaplus Maritime Services Ltd, based in Cyprus. Both companies are still authorised. In the meantime, two other companies have received a licence, one from the United Kingdom and one from Germany. An undertaking was refused because it could not prove that it fulfilled the minimum conditions for obtaining a licence. Thus, in the present case, the company could not demonstrate that its executive staff fulfilled the requirements of psychotechnical research, that a manual of proceedings was made in accordance with the legal obligations and that it had complete and sufficient equipment to carry out the activity. I can inform you that there is no longer any current application. Between the application and the decision of the maritime safety companies already authorised, i.e. to obtain the necessary information from the applicant and to follow the procedure, there is an average of 12 months, in accordance with the royal decision on this matter, after consultation with the Council of Ministers. It is also necessary to obtain prior advice from the Minister of Justice and State Security before obtaining a licence from maritime safety company. Fourthly, 48 contracts with maritime safety companies have already been concluded since the entry into force of the Act in 2013 for contracts on ships flying the Belgian flag. That was done by six different shipping companies. More specifically, 10 travels in 2013, 27 travel in 2014, 8 travel in 2015 and already 3 travel in 2016. Fifth, incidents were described by the legislator as cases where firearms were used or where pirates attacked or boarded. Those incidents shall be notified to the Government crisis centre by the master of the ship or by the registered owner or operator. The crisis centre has confirmed that it has not received any reports in this area. Maritime safety companies themselves also have their own reporting obligations to the Private Security Executive Board when such a situation has occurred. This is done via a specific e-mail address. To date, no report of an incident has been received at that address either. It should therefore be assumed that no incident, as defined in the law, has occurred since the entry into force of the Act on 16 March 2013. Finally, by Royal Decree of 11 February 2013, it was stipulated that the law applies only within the sea area bounded by Suez and the Strait of Hormuz. That's actually the coast of Somalia. During the Council of Ministers of 7 July 2016, a draft royal decree was adopted, extending that zone to the sea area in the Gulf of Guinea, as there appears to have been a worrying number of incidents. The KB's draft was signed by the King on 1 September 2016 following the advice of the Council of State and will be published in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u35	First of all, Minister, I am very pleased that the kind of incidents to which the law applies have fortunately not yet taken place. I hope that they will never happen and that maritime security will create a deterrent effect. I am also pleased with the enlargement, because there was indeed an increasing number of incidents near Guinea. That question also lived in the international community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u36	Minister, you will recall our discussions on Doel 1 & 2's inability to meet the new requirements of WENRA for seismic resistance. As part of these discussions, you announced the publication by the end of June 2016 of a second explanatory document called "guidance", the first having been published in April 2015. I would like to receive a copy of this document, or to know where it may be available on a website and if it should not be, what is the reason for this delay. Would differences between regulators explain this possible delay? If so, what position does the AFCN stand in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u37	Mr Nollet, here is an overview of the documents relating to the Wenra guidance. The specific WENRA guidance to the earthquake was reworked to lead in principle to a final draft in early July of this year, as is the case for two other guidances on floods and extreme weather conditions. These guidances more specifically explain the WENRA reference levels for external risks in addition to the general guidance head guidance, already available since April 2015 on the WENRA website. I have the link here, we'll give it to you. In view of the task of the working group within WENRA, which develops these guidelines, all the guidelines could not be finalized at the same time, as priority was given to general guidance. The progress of work is also strongly linked to the group's meetings, which are held three times a year. As far as planning is concerned, guidance will be submitted for approval to the WENRA Central Committee at their next plenary meeting in October this year. We do not yet have the approved text. It will then be quickly placed on the WENRA website. To answer your question about the differences of opinion between WENRA members on these issues, yes, there are. These differences are linked to different situations, especially in relation to the real seismic risks to which countries are subjected, the different sensitivities regarding the place of deterministic and probabilistic approaches in studies, and sometimes very different regulatory contexts. It is often difficult to understand the concerns and views of others when the problems and discussions at the national level are not the same. This is why lengthy discussions are needed, in order to reach texts covering the various concerns and reflecting consensus on the broad lines, each regulator remaining responsible for the practical declination in his country. Belgium, represented by experts from AFCN and Bel V within WENRA, defends a rather deterministic approach in a spirit of defence in depth. In any event, the subject will be discussed at the October plenary meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. Therefore, the seismic standards document will arrive in October. It is finalized but still needs to be approved. And you don't have one, which makes sense enough. Indeed, I checked the site and it does not appear. The link you've offered me will not help me find the document right now. In that case, I will wait until October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u39	Mr President, Minister, as early as May last year, I asked you about the impact in Belgian nuclear power plants of irregularities discovered in the quality assurance files of the Creusot Forge plant. On June 22, you were not yet in possession of definitive information. You only had provisional information. On this basis, you told us that "no major non-compliance" had been detected with regard to the Belgian park. Today I would like to return to this issue and to have some clarifications: what is a "major" non-conformity? Where is this category defined? On the other hand, I would like to have complete and definitive information on this matter. It appears that the irregular file concerns 5 components of the internal parts of the Tihange 2 reactor tank. Do you confirm that? Can you tell me what these 5 components are? Electrabel presents this as a mere irregularity of documentation. However, according to some interested associations on this important issue of nuclear safety, it would be the upper plate of support of the bars (essential part of the reactor) that seems to be affected. As we know, a failure of this hole plate that guides the bars would prevent or slow down the operation of the control bar and the emergency stop bar. The slightest defect could therefore have serious consequences. However, the fact that these components had to undergo a dual heat treatment is not neutral: it can cause the edges of the tray to gondola and cause cracking, especially in the event of an emergency stop. To verify that this is not the case and to verify the conformity of the part, an essential operation, the reactor must be stopped and a surface (non-destructive) test carried out. There is insufficient inspection on the basis of Electrabel's statement or on the basis of a simple administrative file or visual inspection. In France, the ASN suspended the test certificate for a steam generator at the Fessenheim plant until further examination. Why does what is necessary in France not seem to be necessary in Belgium? I would like to ask you one more question: has the original control, usually carried out after the heat treatment alone, been carried out in this case after the second treatment? What did it consist of? What were the results of this initial control on the second treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u40	Mr President, Mr Nollet, just over a hundred pieces were forged by Creusot Forge and installed in nuclear power plants in Doel or Tihange. After on-site verification at Creusot by AFCN and Electrabel, it appears that five of these parts are in non-compliance with the legitimate expectations of quality assurance for the manufacture of parts for the nuclear industry. These five pieces are elements of the internals and of the Tihange 2 tank, i.e. the upper flange, the plate of the upper support and the three nozzles of the internals. This non-conformity consists in the absence of a mention of the repetition of the quality heat treatment after the temperature required by the technical specifications has not been reached during a first quality heat treatment. These five pieces were forged at the same time and present exactly the same irregularity as they were all placed together in the oven to receive this heat treatment. The tests required by the regulations have of course been carried out on these parts after the second heat treatment and have shown mechanical properties fully in line with the specifications. These results show that these parts are therefore fully compliant with the specifications, which confirms the scientific data showing that the repetition of a heat treatment does not affect the properties of a component and does not lead, contrary to your comments, to a cracking of this part. It is important to understand that, had this second heat treatment been mentioned in the file submitted to Electrabel in the 1980s, this would in no way have called into question the acceptability of the parts. In conclusion, it must be understood that the importance of the irregularities discovered in the documentation of forged pieces at the Creusot varies greatly according to the records. This ranges from the mere documentary irregularity, as for the five pieces of Tihange 2, to the significant error in manufacturing. It was this second type of much more serious irregularity that led the ASN to suspend the certificate of a steam generator. Such a measure has no reason to be for the parts of Tihange 2 because the irregularity is of a completely different importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u41	Your answer, Minister, makes it possible to distinguish between what is found and practiced in Belgium and what is practiced in Fessenheim. Having said that, I want to be sure that the five elements you are quoting here were considered to be major non-compliance criteria. It was that term that also surprised me a little, because it suggested that there were others left but those you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u42	There are five of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u43	So there's only five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u44	Minister, this is the beginning of the long series of incidents that took place in our nuclear power plants during the holidays. I apologise to the colleagues who are waiting to ask their questions. But I've listed a few dozen incidents. You're used to my questions about it. On Wednesday, June 22, 2016, a worker from Belgoprocess suffered external contamination. The air appears to have been contaminated during preparatory work for the reprocessing of radioactive sources when a packaging was opened. Can you explain the causes of this incident and the consequences for the worker concerned? Can you tell us why this incident was classified INES 1? Can you tell us what measures have been put in place to prevent such incidents from happening again? I would also like to highlight positively the fact that it did not take two days for this incident to be reported on the AFCN site. You know that I am sometimes very critical of the response time of the AFCN. Here, I wanted to congratulate them. Two days to react, it seems more than correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u45	Mr Nollet, for each INES 1 or higher event, the AFCN publishes on its website a brief description of the event, its causes and its possible consequences. As with other answers to your questions, I refer to the information published on the AFCN website. Here I quote: "The air was contaminated during preparatory work for the reprocessing of radioactive sources when a packaging was opened. The measurements confirm that this contamination is due to the release of radon, a noble gas, which produces radium fission. The worker was decontaminated. No internal contamination was found. According to the control measures carried out in the building, no further contamination occurred." End of quote. There was no other consequence for the worker. With regard to your second question, classification on the INES scale is done according to the methodology prescribed in the INES manual published by the IAEA. An event is analysed on the basis of a number of criteria, such as the impact of the dose on the worker or the environment, or the impact on the defence system in depth. Given the impact of the dose received and the consequences suffered by the worker and the environment, this incident must in fact be considered an off-scale event. However, it was classified at INES level 1 for in-depth defence reasons (non-compliance with procedures). For your third question, the measures to avoid repetition are organisational in nature and concern a change in the working method and the awareness of the operators concerned of the correct application of the procedures. Your fourth question was more of a remark, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u46	Minister, I know that the AFCN publishes a few items on its website. As part of our exchanges, you bring additional information. It makes sense because my questions are more specific, and they are intended, among other things, to have information about things that the PSAN does not explain. I'm not trying to figure that out, I'm looking for more information. I have here what the site published, after analysis, we classify it to level 1. It was said that there was no problem for the worker. If the dose is low, normally it is not INES 1. But here, you explain that it's because we're touching the defense in depth and things are no longer being respected. That is the reason for such questions, beyond what the AFCN publishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u47	The dose was not the danger but the fact that staff did not follow the procedures. It's some kind of alarm signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u48	I think it's a good reflex. To the extent that the procedures have not been followed, it is normal for INES to be classified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on Monday, May 30, it was observed during a periodic check that a chain of measurement of the radioactivity of the Tihange 3 reactor had remained in a test position, and therefore inactive, for several days. I note in passing that it took AFCN 15 days to report this anomaly on its website. This anomaly is a deviation from the technical specifications, which require that two measurement chains be permanently available for the control room. Minister, can you explain the reasons for this anomaly? What measures are in place to prevent the recurrence of such incidents? What commitments has the operator made? Can you tell us why this incident was classified INES 1? I'm coming up with a hypothesis. What is the connection between this anomaly and the lack of respect for the safety culture found at the Tihange site, which at the time led AFCN to deposit two pro justitia? Could you take a look at this? What follow-up has Justice already given to these two pro justitia filed by AFCN? Have you been informed of this in any way? Finally, can you invite AFCN to report on its website when it poses such an act vis-à-vis the judiciary? I am referring here to the pro justitia because we became aware of it when they came to committee. We could not have known otherwise. It would therefore be interesting if they could also explain it on their website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u50	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as part of the process of declaration to the safety authority, the Tihange plant, declared, on 2 June 2016, a case of non-compliance with the technical operating specifications in Tihange 3. The deviation was established during a source check test to verify the radiological response of a radioactive chain. During this operation, the unavailability of the chain in question has been observed for a week. This unavailability is due to the fact that the source used for the test remained engaged at the chain level, i.e. it was not repositioned in its withdrawal state after the test. As a result, all signals related to this chain (alarm signals and actuators) remained inhibited during this period. The ambient radioactivity of the reactor control room is continuously measured by two of these chains to detect any increase in radioactivity. The other measurement chain remained in constant operation. This anomaly is a deviation from the technical specifications which require that two measurement chains be permanently available for the control room. The unavailable measurement chain was made available again by Electrabel, in order to restore the required redundancy. The reactive inspection, conducted by AFCN with Bel V, concluded that, although it is not significant in terms of direct impact on safety, it is an event of concern, as it highlights weaknesses in the organization of processes and behaviour. In order to avoid future occurrences of non-compliance with regulatory requirements, the PSAN asked the operator to clarify the responsibilities and expectations of those involved in the quality control of tasks performed by field technicians. In addition, AFCN requested the operator to develop an enhanced monitoring plan for operations involving compliance with technical specifications. The operator responded to both requests from the PSAN. Classification on the INES scale was done according to the methodology prescribed in the manual. An event is analysed on the basis of a number of criteria, such as the impact of doses on the worker or the environment or the impact on the defence system in depth. Although the baseline assessment of the event led to INES 0, safety crop failures in particular were an aggravating factor and decided INES 1. With regard to your comment on the INES communication, I refer to my explanation in the answer to Parliamentary Question No 13238 concerning an INES 1 incident in Belgoprocess. The findings made during the reactive inspection constitute a violation of regulatory sections 9.1 and 9.2 of the Royal Order of 30 November 2011 prescribing the safety of nuclear facilities. This offence is the cause of the deposit of a pro justitia by AFCN at the level of the Huy Public Prosecutor's Office. The follow-up to the pro justitia is therefore not the responsibility of the AFCN but of the King's prosecutor. For the related questions, I should like to inform you that the Agency has indeed already published the information concerning the deposit of the pro justitia on its website, in the same text informing you of the INES 1 evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u51	Mr.Minister, thank you for this information, but I will repeat your comments, because I am also concerned about the failure of the safety culture in a nuclear power plant. This is not the first time, but the second time, that the AFCN has filed a pro justitia to see this fact. Of course, the operator, Electrabel, is making new commitments to tell us that everything will be fine. If such a failure were to be found again, you should intervene in your capacity as Minister. I do not want to add any more, since the consequences have not been serious for workers or the environment. That's why I share your explanation about level zero. However, the repetition of worrying events and reactions that depart from the measures that might be expected in terms of safety at nuclear power plants must also challenge us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u52	Mr Nollet, as recently as yesterday, I received the CEO of Electrabel to express my dissatisfaction with this flaw in terms of safety culture. He explained to me what action had been taken. They will also change their C&O, which is responsible for nuclear power. So they took action. However, changing culture does not happen from one day to the next. Like you, I consider that if the safety culture does not constitute modus vivendi in a nuclear power plant, they must remedy it very quickly. I have the impression that they are taking this problem seriously and taking action. I'll follow up on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u53	Minister, I would like to congratulate you on having anticipated my request. I hope that this is not related to other incidents that we will learn about in the coming days. It's more related to the accumulation of problems. As soon as there was an incident, I asked a question. I guess it must have pissed you off, too. I'm not talking about my questions! I mean, maybe... I was talking about the multiplication of incidents. Your meeting with the CEO and the action taken on the O&M are positive, clear signals. Your involvement is a reassuring act in view of a situation that was not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u54	After Belgoprocess, after Tihange 3, this is Tihange 2. On 9 July, the Tihange 2 nuclear reactor was shut down for 38 hours for a steam turbine maintenance operation. However, it appears that this maintenance operation, which resulted in an "unplanned unavailability", is a follow-up to an incident related to a leak in the steam turbine hydraulic system. It should also be noted that this incident occurred when the Tihange 2 reactor had just restarted after being shut down two days earlier for another maintenance operation. Can you tell us more about this new incident? What are the causes and consequences? Can you tell us what measures have been put in place to prevent such incidents from happening again? All the more so as we came out of a maintenance operation. It's this link between the time we're doing the maintenance and the incident that comes right after that calls me here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u55	On 8 July, the operator found a leak on a high-level circuit of a steam turbine in the engine room, a non-nuclear part. As this leak was not insolable, a shutdown of the turbine was required for an intervention. After diagnosis, it appears that the use of an unsuitable seal is the cause of the leak. The defective joint was replaced by a suitable size joint and the assembly was reassembled. The root cause is therefore inadequate maintenance. The operator has decided to replace the joints of the circuit concerned preventively, to examine and, if necessary, to replace all joints of similar circuits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for these clarifications, they go beyond what was at this stage on the Agency's site. We're in a new situation of inadequate maintenance. I will say no more, I will come back to it in other questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u57	Mr President, Minister, at his hearing in Parliament on 9 March, Pr. Eggermont, who has been an active member of the AFCN Scientific Council for 15 years, noted, among other things, the fact that at AFCN, the issue of the possibility of conflict of interest is resolved through a simple declaration. No specific procedure has been established. On the other hand, he pointed out, from the Higher Council of Health where such a procedure was planned. This procedure has also served as a model for current legislation in this area, namely the Act of 21 December 2013 on enhancing the transparency, independence and credibility of decisions and opinions in the fields of public health, health insurance, food chain safety and the environment. The nuclear sector has not yet taken steps to comply with this legislation. Like the wish of Pr. Eggermont, I would like to know if you are going to undertake such a reform and make these minimum principles applicable to the AFCN and its various bodies? In addition to the proposed text of my question, I will add a link to the procedure for the appointment of the next boss of the Federal Agency that will soon arrive. We will soon have to start, initiate the procedure. I would find it appropriate for you to draw on what has been done in the 2013 law cited in my question with respect to the Higher Health Council to incorporate this into the future designation procedure. This would also make it possible to have more guarantees than was previously provided for in terms of independence. Is this something that is already conceivable for the procedure that will be initiated for the replacement of Mr Bens, in about a year and a half?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u58	Mr President, in response to your added question, I will reflect on how this could be put into practice. It is clear that independence will be one of the most important criteria for me. This is the basis for the operation and the task of the AFCN. As far as your other questions are concerned, I can tell you this. The Scientific Council on Ionizing Radiation respects the principles of good administration in its operation. With regard to the prevention of conflicts of interest, article 11 of the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 determining the composition and powers of the Scientific Council for Atomic Radiation established with the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control specifically states: "No member of the Council shall be present at the deliberations on objects on which he or his parents or allies up to the second degree have a personal interest. Any member of the Council shall not be present at the deliberations on objects to which his employer, related undertakings, parent companies or competitors have a direct interest." This provision has been specified in a rules of procedure. Each member shall indicate the potential interests of each member in matters to be dealt with. If a member of the Board is designated by the operator as its representative, a conflict of interest shall be presumed in the head of the Board member when processing that operator's file. Therefore, the member may participate in the meeting only as a representative of the operator and therefore shall not take part in the deliberations or the vote on this item. The President shall decide, possibly after consulting the Council, whether there is a conflict of interest within the meaning of Article 11 which I have just mentioned. The member concerned may not take part in the vote or in the deliberations on the matter on which there is a conflict of interest. This was extended with the entry into force of the new internal regulation in 2013, therefore after the departure of Mr Eggermont
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for that answer. I believe that the Federal Agency has suffered too much in the past on this issue of independence or appearance of independence. I thank you in any case for the first part of your answer, where you say you will see what you can do. I will of course follow this question in the weeks and months to come because, as we know, new decisions will have to be taken soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u60	Mr President, Minister, you will recall that I have already asked three questions about the situation of this undertaking in the Charleroi Basin. I am very attentive to the development of this issue. During our last exchange on 22 June, you informed me that EZB had requested and obtained an extension from AFCN of the deadline for submitting an application for authorization to dismantle. Do I have to remember that this company has not been producing since 2008 and that we are in 2016? The Agency agreed on the extension to 31 July, when it had already issued a warning before, that having concerns that the company would evade its responsibilities - that was your terms - it had issued an injunction and that it had set a deadline for 15 May? I have the unpleasant feeling that we're playing cat and mouse, and that's not good. It's not healthy. We know that this company is no longer able to produce anything. There's nothing left in the buildings, just two cyclotrons that are still there and that you need to be able to dismantle and evacuate. But we're hanging out, with the prospect that all the know-how and the staff will be gone. There are only two or three people on the site. Despite this, a new deadline was reached, extending the deadline to 31 July. That date being behind us, I'd like to know what's going on. Has the company filed such an application? What does she understand? Is it "quality", since that was the criterion that the AFCN had deemed necessary? According to what calendar will the company be dismantled? Can you also confirm that the site would not be closed? The danger to local residents and businesses, even if it is not immediate because it is not a nuclear power plant, is still real because of the risk of de-empowerment of a company leaving. That's why I wish I could finally be reassured about this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u61	Mr Nollet, EZB has not submitted to the AFCN a decommissioning plan in accordance with section 17.2 of the GRPRI. The company introduced an initial decommissioning plan in which it states that it does not intend to dismantle its facilities. In parallel, it submitted a safety report intended to support an application for authorisation to carry out gallium 68 production tests using their cyclotrons. The AFCN found these two documents incomplete. As regards the safety and radiation protection of the population, workers and the environment, there is no immediate or future danger. Remediation of Iodine and Palladium Implant Production Areas was completed in 2015. Radioactive waste produced by the company is also safely managed. Only two casemates and two cyclotrons remain for which the AFCN has undertaken various actions vis-à-vis EZB with a view to their dismantling. Since there is no danger and the company does not violate the regulations for which the AFCN is competent, i.e. it complies with the conditions of its operating authorisation, the Agency cannot impose anything on it either with respect to dismantling or with regard to waste management. I can finally confirm that the site is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u62	Minister, we are facing a real problem. If I hear your answer correctly, the Federal Agency considers it to be the end of its work on this issue. But she had given an injunction saying, "You have to file a file to close, close, dismantle." In this case, the company EZB files a completely "bidon" project. This is not the term you use, but it is understood that the Agency considers it incomplete and that it is not possible to follow the so-called industrial project. Meanwhile, this company hasn't produced anything since 2008. In addition, it has decontamination part of its facilities. Yes! But there are still two big pieces: casemates and cyclotrons. And we are going to say, "Ah, no, there is no industrial project that is accepted" but these heavy and dangerous waste remains on the site which, in addition, is not fenced, as you say. Minister, we can't stay in the state. We're moving towards a status quo that may last decades because the federal agency says she's done her job. It's a real problem. I also fear that some day or another, when it will fix them, there will be no more responsible and that we will have to operate as at Best Medical in Fleurus. I don't know if you know the file. It was ONDRAF that had to come to manage the site to decontaminate it because there were no more owners or managers. They were gone. In this case, it has been since 2008 that nothing is produced. There are two or three people left on the site. There's no real manager anymore, even if they answer with a fake file. I am not at all satisfied with the situation in which we put the company that could stay for years and years without doing anything. I don't know if you have anything that can reassure me more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u63	Mr Nollet, honestly, I share your analysis and I will personally deal with these issues with a view to changing the situation or taking further action. Like you, I find this permanent situation unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u64	Minister, thank you once again for this very clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u65	Mr.Minister, questioned on the subject on June 22, 2016, you told me that the Autorité de sécurité nucléaire, the French homologue of the AFCN, had announced on its website on April 18, 2016 that it was collaborating in an ongoing judicial investigation into a case of falsification of reports of analysis of materials and that the company in question is a small supplier of forged metal parts. These parts are delivered to larger companies that assemble them in important components such as steam generators, valves or pumps. You also told me that, in the period from 2009 to 2015, Electrabel had placed orders from 64 different component suppliers and that the operator was verifying, for each of these suppliers, whether it had delivered to it equipment containing parts from SBS, potentially affected by the irregularities. From that moment on, you were able to tell me that at least one company had supplied potentially affected equipment. This material was being analysed by the quality assurance department of Electrabel and Tractebel. I assume you now have a complete and definitive view of the problem. I therefore come back with all my questions. Minister, what kind of problems do these falsifications lead to? What is the extent of malfeasance? When did they start? Are any of the documents supplied by this company likely to have been used in the Belgian nuclear sector? What controls, investigations or inspections has the AFCN initiated to be clear about it? What are the conclusions and lessons learned from these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u66	Mr Nollet, a great deal of information in this case is confidential, because it is part of the secrecy of the investigation. Both the AFCN and Electrabel have access to information on Belgian nuclear power plants only. These are the following. Just over 300 companies supply classified equipment to Electrabel. Of these, 69 firms are likely to be supplied to the manufacturer who falsified material analysis reports during the period in question, i.e. between 2009 and 2015. Electrabel contacted all of these 69 contractors to question them on this issue. As a result, 13 firms received material directly with a falsified certificate. However, of these 13 companies, only one actually delivered equipment with a falsified certificate to a Belgian nuclear power plant, Tihange. This material concerned by falsification is a batch of 22 flanges of carbon steel pipes. A few of them were placed on Tihange 1 during the replacement of the CEB circuit (Circuit d'Eau Brute). Most of them, however, are still in Tihange's store. The falsification concerns the results of the mechanical tests with results very slightly below the specifications. A non-compliance sheet was drawn up by Tihange's supplier – as should have been done at the base by the manufacturer – with technical justification for the condition of the equipment delivered. As a confirmation, Electrabel commissioned destructive mechanical tests on 2 flanges of this batch. The results are quite satisfactory and conform to the standards. The AFCN asked Electrabel to make all the clarity on this issue and regularly follows the progress of the case. As part of these problems with the manufacture of forged parts, AFCN conducted and scheduled inspections on the management by Electrabel of its contractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u67	Thank you, Minister. I need to understand. So there are 22 flanges that are problematic. Some have already been placed on the plant, others are in the store. I assume those in the store will not be placed, since they are non-compliant. Those that were placed were not tested, but two that were similar in the store, and these tests were considered to be not problematic. Is that how I have to understand the situation? We saw what it was like with the ones in the store, but since it's the same rooms, we looked at what it was like. But then, I want to understand: when were the non-compliance sheets drawn up within the company? Is it at the time they were received, or was there any non-compliance records made after the problem had been reported? I'll explain my reasoning to you. If the non-compliance sheets were completed before installing the parts, why were they installed, if considered non-compliant? I do not understand when these non-compliance sheets were completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u68	The falsification concerns the results of mechanical tests, with very slightly lower results. A non-compliance sheet was prepared by Tihange's supplier. It happened after the tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u69	After installation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u71	Minister, on 8 June, during a clean-up operation at the former Best Medical Belgium facility in Fleurus, an ONDRAF worker suffered external contamination as a result of non-compliance with working procedures. The worker apparently did not wear protective gloves and his hands were contaminated. Contamination was also found at one of the premises in the controlled area. Can you tell us what the consequences of this incident are for the workers concerned? Can you tell us what steps have been taken to prevent such incidents from happening again? Let me also point out that this incident was not communicated by the AFCN on its website until more than a month after the facts. How can such a delay be explained? Do you confirm that this ranking at level INES 1 is due to the succession of negligence and non-compliance with procedures, revealing a lack of a safety culture? That would be worrying, because it is not the Electrabel operator that it is, but the ONDRAF. This institute is in fact responsible for managing the most radioactive waste for thousands of years, but would it be unable to do so in terms of safety? That is why I will be attentive to your answer. If that is the case, may I ask you to specify the list of these errors and the dates involved, as I have not been aware of previous incidents? If this list is too long, you can provide it to me in writing. After this incident, the risks and instructions to be followed on the site were appropriately reminded of the workers. Could you tell me when the last three reminders were made before the incident? Finally, what recommendations were in place regarding the periodicity of such reminders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u72	Mr Nollet, the contamination did not have any consequences for the workers concerned. In order to avoid a recurrence of such an incident, a reminder of the risks and an awareness of compliance with the procedures and instructions were organised on 22 June. Given the low level of contamination, the operator was not required to report the incident immediately to the AFCN. This was reported to Bel V during the monthly inspection visit. The analysis of the circumstances of the incident led the operator and Bel V to conduct an INES analysis and to inform AFCN, which then communicated it on its site. The classification at level INES 1 is due to the succession of negligence and non-compliance with procedures. Again, the incident itself did not justify a classification in INES 1, but the repeated non-follow-up of the procedures justified, according to the AFCN, that it should be mentioned on the website as INES 1. The operator handled contaminated lead blocks without protective gloves, while the wearing of personal protective equipment was mentioned in his hazardous work permit and a radiation protection officer had advised him that the lead blocks were contaminated. When this controller came out of the area and discovered contamination in his hands, he had to notify the physical control department. He did not, despite the display over the sink recalling the procedure to follow. He decontaminated himself and checked alone that he was no longer contaminated. The contaminated gloves were not properly insulated. They were simply placed on a shelf. After the removal of the contaminated lead blocks, the operators did not use a radiation protection agent to verify the non-contamination of the soil. The radiation protection officer who discovered the contaminated gloves on the shelf in the area exit hatch did not investigate the reasons for their presence on the shelf and not in the trash. He just put them in the proper trash. In accordance with section 25 of the IRPP, a reminder of the risks and instructions to be followed must be organized at least once a year. The last three recalls were made on November 19, 2015, March 5, 2015 and November 14, 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u73	Minister, thank you. This succession of negligence is an issue for us. All the more so since it is the ONDRAF, and not a company like any other – even if in the nuclear sector no company could afford that kind of thing. But it's ONDRAF. At the point of departure, I thought that it was not possible, that he was a single person, that it was the individual responsibility of a person who did not take precautions when they were reminded of him. But after that, I also understand that the case management was not ideal either. It is therefore positive that this could have been declared at the INES 1 scale so that people really take their responsibilities. I note that the last three reminders have not been fully completed within one year. Sometimes it's a matter of a few days. I'll analyze the dates. What's important is that it doesn't happen again, even if you're never safe...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u75	That's what I see, but it takes three a year, if I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u76	One per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u77	We jumped in 2014. As a result, they made two in 2015. The main thing is that it goes back on a good footing. As I said, we are not always immune to an individual gap. Nothing can be done about it because it is obviously a human component, but then the hierarchy must be able to react effectively and immediately. It must also be a lesson for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u78	Mr.President, Minister, we arrive on August 8, 2016. After the incidents of Tihange 3, Tihange 2, Belgoprocess and on the Best Medical website in Fleurus, I now ask you about Doel 2. During maintenance work at this nuclear power plant, an electronic module was reset. As a result of this manipulation, two valves in the auxiliary feeding water system, which operated in automatic mode, were switched to manual mode. The function of these valves is to inject additional food water into steam generators in emergency situations. According to the technical specifications, the four valves in the auxiliary feeding water system must always be in automatic mode. In this case, two of the four valves appear to have remained in manual mode for 9 hours, which constitutes a breach of technical specifications. Can you tell us the causes of this incident? Can you tell us why this incident was classified INES 1? Can you tell us what measures have been put in place to prevent such incidents from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, the electronic module that controls the valves in the auxiliary food water system has been reset. As a result of this operation, the valves in question were found to be in non-compliant mode with the technical specifications. This irregularity was found when the break was changed. Classification on the INES scale is done according to the prescribed methodology (...) (inaudible). An event is analysed on the basis of a number of criteria, such as the impact of the dose on the worker or the environment or the impact on the defence system in depth. This incident was classified at INES level 1 on the basis of the criteria of "in-depth defence" (non-compliance with procedures). Measures to avoid repetition in the future are organisational in nature and include raising awareness among the operators concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u80	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. One more incident related to non-compliance!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u81	Mr President, Minister, the WIPP is the deep geological radioactive waste storage facility located in New Mexico (United States) which was supposed to accommodate approximately 660 metres deep, 176 000 m3 of so-called transuranium waste (including americium and plutonium) from American nuclear activities. This storage centre experienced two notable events in February 2014: a fire in the northern part of the underground facility and, nine days later, a release of radioactive material in the southern zone for about 15 hours. Twenty-two people showed contamination as a result of this relaxation. The photographs showed that some materials had melted, which attests to a high temperature, of the order of 100 degrees around the incriminated drum and up to 1000°C at its contact, much more than the models envisaged. This therefore goes beyond what the models had imagined. The radioactivity released to the environment is also due to insufficient performance of the air filtration system. The system appeared to have leaks in two registers, which were probably aggravated by corrosion phenomena and which were not detected due to insufficient pre-maintenance checks of the ventilation system. It would also appear that external contamination leaks have been observed several times since 2014. In relation to these incidents, my question is what lessons have been learned by the AFCN. In the nuclear environment, lessons are always drawn from the big incidents that take place elsewhere. Do these elements not call into question the very principle of geological burial of nuclear waste? And if not yet, what additional requirements has AFCN formulated with regard to ONDRAF in relation to its geological storage project in Belgium? Does not the analysis of these events highlight the need for the AFCN to at least require the waste package to be a robust containment barrier, in particular to control its contents, in particular in terms of chemical reactivity, to provide for permanent monitoring arrangements to detect an anomaly early enough to act before a release of radioactive material occurs, including when the site is closed and to take into account, in the demonstration of safety, that drifts in the control of the operation are possible and to foresee, in the design of the facility, the provisions that will enable it to contain all the consequences? In particular, should these provisions aim to make recovery intervention possible, including when the site is closed, and to restore initial safety and radiation protection conditions? Should the AFCN not further restrict and control the use of subcontracting, which is one of the causes of the problem identified by U.S. operators to the WIPP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u82	Mr. Nollet, you're right you pleaded to shorten the holidays, otherwise... The events at the WIPP in February 2014 are of course well known to the AFCN. The indication of a radioactive waste landfill facility in favour of the type of waste stored there is a basic requirement; this implies that the operational safety and long-term security of the repository must be demonstrated automatically. Therefore, the compatibility of the waste components and their compatibility with the components of the deposit facility must be demonstrated in a safety study. The events at the WIPP highlight the need to pay attention to the chemical reactivity of waste components and waste components with their deposition environment, as well as the importance to be attached to the prevention and control of the risk of fire. ONDRAF will have to demonstrate that it has taken international experience into account. Reversibility during the operational phase is part of the operational safety assessment phase, which must consider events, incidents and accidents that may occur. In this respect, the feedback of experiences such as that of the WIPP should be taken into account. Moreover, the transposition of the EURATOM 2011/70 Directive into Belgian law by the Act of 3 June 2014 and the inclusion in Article 179 of the 1980 Act on the creation of ONDRAF provides that national policies to be proposed by ONDRAF include arrangements for reversibility and recovery. The Act further stipulates that the recovery of radioactive waste in closed storage must be authorized by the AFCN, which involves safety studies. In order to be able to build and operate a repository, the operator, in this case ONDRAF, will need to have an integrated management system, which will describe, in particular, how it works with and controls subcontractors, particularly in the area of security. The completeness of this MSI will be assessed by the AFCN, a priori, while its application and effectiveness will be evaluated during construction and operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u83	Minister, I have some interesting information. The ONDRAF will have to take into account what happened at the WIPP when submitting the final version of its project. It's pretty positive. On the other hand, what is problematic is that at this stage, while in France additional requirements have been expressed by the ASN (Nuclear Safety Authority) regarding the Cigeo project, certainly more advanced than ours – even if AFCN has already learned the lessons – in Belgium one has left it to the intentions that ONDRAF will only have to analyse its consequences. It is therefore interesting to observe the French requirements, in particular in terms of permanent monitoring arrangements. In this regard, your answer is not sufficiently reassuring. You're talking about reversibility during the operation phase. However, the chemical reaction may occur after the end of the operation, when the site is potentially closed. That is why the monitoring requirements must also relate to that moment, so that what is taking place under the earth is at least controllable. I recall that what has been observed in the United States goes far beyond what the models envisaged. Therefore, this should be taken into account in the ONDRAF recalculations. I stress very much that what you say about reversibility and recoverability is not limited to the only phase of operation. This is a debate on which we will have the opportunity to come back when ONDRAF presents its project and the Agency gives its opinion on it. In any case, I believe that the parliamentary exchanges we have earlier certainly shed light on the situation and, hopefully, change the thinking in these two institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u84	Mr President, Minister, on 29 August 2016, several of the perpetrators set fire in the laboratory of the National Institute of Criminology and Criminalism, the NICC, in Neder-over-Heembeek. Apparently they drove into the grounds, threw fuel in and lit the fire there. Then they burned their own chariot, and fled. The damaged wing includes the labs for gunpowder spores, accelerants, clothing fibers and biological micro spores. So these are labs that investigate evidence from various judicial files. The NICC building is governed by the Government of the Buildings. Although according to the OCAD, the building did not appear to be a target for terrorism, general security is necessary. For example, you can easily find information about the building via Google Streetview, including the locks of fences, types of fences, open windows, the places of the cameras and so on. The entire building was published under the largest pixel view. Minister, have you already contacted Google in times of increased threat to ensure that fewer data on public critical infrastructure is freely available? If not, do you think it would be appropriate to make agreements with Google on the publication of critical infrastructure on the Internet? If so, what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u85	Mr President, Mr Top, to be honest, I have not yet contacted Google. However, I asked the crisis centre to launch an opportunity study and to have it examined which buildings and sites could be blurred. I await the results of that investigation, to contact Google, if necessary, after the opportunity study of the crisis centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u86	Minister, I urge you to do so as soon as possible. Everyone is free to address a question to Google personally, as everyone can already have their own home or domain masked on Google Streetview. However, a coordinated approach would be appropriate, especially in these times. In the past, I have already asked oral questions on the safety of buildings, so my questions are not new. Once again, I insist on building security. There are institutions in which people work and we must give priority to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u87	I asked the crisis centre to study this, but we must also think carefully about it. If certain buildings are blurred in Google Streetview, I might find that, should I be a terrorist, just interesting. Maybe there are other methods. That's why the crisis center is investigating it. You are right to raise the issue, but we want to check whether blurring at Google is the right technique. That is why I asked the crisis centre to study it, and that is what it is doing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u88	Mr Minister, if there are any results of this study, I suggest that you make it known to us. If erasing data on Google Streetview would give rise to possible attacks, then any home or any resident could be targeted by an attack, because many homes have already been blurred. It's more about security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u89	Minister, this question arises from a newspaper article. In protest against abuses such as the shortage of staff and clothing, the trade unions have been organising an administrative strike in the Flemish-Brabant East relief zone since the beginning of August. In practice, therefore, no invoices are made for interventions such as wasp destruction, ambulance rides or road surface cleaning. According to the trade unions, the quality of the interventions suffers from the shortage of staff in such a way that potentially dangerous situations arise. For this reason, the fire station Overijse was unable to respond to an emergency fire call a while ago and had to ask firefighters from Haacht to assist in the connection of firefires to enable the extinguishing. In addition, the trade unions are not satisfied with the absence of an evaluation of the new labour regime and the general state of play in the area. Have you been informed of the problem? Have you already taken steps to restart the consultation? If so, what were the results? Finally, what efforts can be made to address the shortage of staff and clothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u90	Mr Top, I have indeed been informed of the concerns of the trade unions in the Flemish-Brabant East relief zone. It's not new either. I have instructed my administration to hear the trade unions so that we can map out their sighs and then raise them further during a conversation with the commander of the relief zone. So we're playing a little go-between the two sections. I can tell you that in the meantime both discussions have taken place with my administration and in a very constructive atmosphere. The talks with the trade unions took place on 4 August, which took place with the Zone Commander on 17 August. I then sent a letter to the president of the zone which dealt with a number of issues that were discussed, both with the trade unions and with the zone commander. In order to remedy the staff shortage, there is a procedure under way to promote corporals. That should allow any post to be deported with a qualified commander. Sergeant's gotta be in the first car all the time. Furthermore, the area is currently developing the multiannual policy plan and the operational organisation plan. This will allow for the minimum conditions of the fastest adequate aid and of adequate resources to be met by 31 December 2017 at the latest. Finally, the area management must ensure that sufficient staff are taken out. The zone must follow the rules and is responsible for accidents. In terms of clothing, there appeared to be mainly differences in the way in which service clothes were purchased between the different items within the zone. It has been found that a step-by-step transition to an improved system has already begun, making as much service clothing as possible available through the zone itself. That didn't happen before. That procedure has kept the zones for too long. A procedure has now been set up to allow the purchase of service clothes by the zone and not at the level of the items. I would like to stress that it is up to the zone and the trade unions to maintain this constructive attitude. I can only intermediate between employer and employee. The aid zone is the organisational level and should seek solutions within the scope of the law and the implementing decisions themselves. I will always use this method: where the relationship is difficult, I will act as a mediator and, possibly, with the experience we have gained from good practice from other areas, find solutions. Sometimes it comes down to that. One zone is in conflict and does not know how it is solved in another zone. It may sometimes be sufficient to give some good examples to make it clear that these examples could also be a solution in the area in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u91	Mr Minister, my reflection was simply from experience with my own area of mediation. Thank you, of course, for the answer. I am pleased that an initiative has indeed been taken to mediate in the conflict. In fact, it is primarily up to the relief zone to assume its own responsibility for a solution. So I understand that by 31 December 2017 there will have to be solutions for the fastest adequate aid and resources. Finally, if there is no solution in the area in question, is there any possibility of creating a sort of curatele in which you act yourself, even if that is the worst possible solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u92	We always have sanction mechanisms, such as inspections. I have the impression that we are now in a positive vibe. So I'm assuming there's no need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u93	You assume that these mechanisms are not necessary. However, my question is whether any follow-up is planned between now and the end of 2017 to check whether a solution is feasible in the zone by 2017 or whether or not action is needed to encourage those concerned to come to a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u94	That's the role of the inspection. That does not alter the fact that I instructed the inspection to act more coaching and accompanying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u95	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u96	The inspection was given to follow up on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u97	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13300 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 13308 will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Debates of the European Parliament 13331 by Mrs Jadin will also be converted into a written question. Merged questions Nos 13373 by Mrs Matz, 13712 by Mrs Ben Hamou and 13715 by Mr Kir were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u99	Mr Minister, my written question of 2 February 2016, tabled at the request of a colleague from Flemish Brabant, has so far not been answered. I have therefore been expressly asked to put them orally in committee. It concerns the transfer of young people to juvenile courts and to and from youth institutions. I think there is a similar problem with psychiatric hospitals in Belgium. In this case, it concerns the police areas of Tielt, Balen-Dessel-Mol and Herent-Kortenberg. They have a youth institution in their territory, where minors who have committed a crime as defined are placed by the juvenile court. The transfer of these young people to the juvenile court or transfers between youth institutions is, in fact, always made to the local police. These movements are, of course, unpredictable, they do not know in advance and must therefore always anticipate. In addition, a significant part of the capacity to carry out basic police care is thus used for federal missions. If I have understood correctly, they have already been to Brussels to see how to respond to this. The continuing threat of terrorism at the federal level will, of course, also make it tight for the local police areas, if that is included. Everyone wants to show solidarity with Brussels and they also send people out, resulting in pressure at the local level. For a long time, the four police areas concerned and the representatives of the federal police in the districts concerned have been in consultation with the services of the Interior and Justice and with the Youth Welfare Department of the Flemish Minister for Welfare and Health. The purpose of the consultation is to arrive at a final solution to the problem and to provide for fair compensation for the problem. Either people are dismissed, or there is financial compensation. The four police zones request a full take-over of the transfer orders by the federal government and a fair compensation for the police areas concerned for the other tasks resulting from the presence of the youth institutions on their territory. The so-called Christmas agreement of 2014 provides for the creation of a special corps, with about 1 660 troops, which will guarantee security and protection orders. In any event, they have understood from the explanatory statement that this corps can also guarantee the transfer of detainees. The question of the four police zones and their municipal authorities is whether this scheme can also apply to young people from youth institutions who have committed a crime. I come to my four questions. Will all transfers of juvenile offenders residing in a youth institution be carried out by the newly established special corps that will be responsible for surveillance and protection orders? When will this force be operational? If I am not mistaken, you have already answered this question before the recess. The calculation of KUL standard for the federal funding of police areas did not take into account the presence of closed institutions in the territory of those police zones. Will you, from the federal government, provide for a guaranteed and fair financial compensation pending a final settlement for the transfer of young offenders for the interim period? When will there be a final formal framework of agreements between the federal government and the police zones concerned for the remaining tasks of the federal police? I apologise for having to raise this local problem through an oral question. I made an attempt through a written question. It is because people continue to insist on an answer that I said I would put an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u100	Mrs Heeren, we did a catch-up during the holiday and I believe that the answer to your written question is on the way. You are right, one of the tasks of the new management who is approaching will be to carry out, at the request of the judicial authorities, the transfer and monitoring of minors between and to specific institutions. The roll-out of the new Executive Board is planned for the period 2016-2018. As you said, this has been explained a number of times in this committee. In the context of the funding to encourage recruitment policy in 2015, the government has decided to allocate EUR 47 288.87 to the police area of the Tielt region, where there is a closed centre for minors whose reception capacity has increased from 26 to 46 places. The additional workload for police services is estimated at 1 FTE. The proposed amount will make it possible to cover this additional workload. Each of the other three zones received EUR 40 000 for this purpose. As you are perfectly aware as a member of the majority and as a knower of the coalition agreement, there is no revision of the KUL standard in the current coalition agreement. Compensations for federal assignments carried out by local police are already included in the KUL standard. Compensations for new contracts shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. I have just given an example. The fundamental solution will be for the Security Corps to be transferred to the DAB. In this way, local police can be relieved of tasks that are actually for the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u101	As far as the latter is concerned, do you have a deadline for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u102	The roll-out of the DAB is foreseen for the period 2016 to 2018. Transferring existing capacity into that management board will be a first phase. But we also need to expand that. Expanding, i.e. recruiting and training. Only then can one (...). The capacity in today's Justice Security Corps is 400 men. We have calculated that the necessary capacity is about 750 people. Those are exactly the cuts that we said we would do for the local police, who are putting more than 350 FTEs into the assistance of the security corps today. That is the consequence of the (...) of that new management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u103	Now it's about youth institutions. I do not know which institution is located in which municipality of our country, but I can imagine that there are also municipalities that have other types of institutions. I am thinking, for example, of psychiatry. Locally they have a very large impact, but there will be other facilities that will then be called upon to do so. I'm guessing you've already communicated to the force and that they're aware?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u105	Mr President, I regret that it is taking so long for a written question to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u106	That happens sometimes and then your way of working today is the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u107	Of course, we have a few questions to answer in the Home Office. I think we are the department with the highest number of questions and the highest percentage of answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u108	I don't put a lot of them. I come from another culture, from another parliament, where one can play on the ball for a shorter time. I also think it is a very strange thing to do personally to deal with 60 questions on an afternoon without having a substantive debate, but I have long reconciled myself with the way in which the Chamber of Representatives operates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u109	Minister, on 15 November 2014, the European Parliament brought the PNR agreement between the European Union and Canada before the Court of Justice of the Union to verify its compatibility with Union law. This has never been done so far, so this opinion is needed before ratifying a treaty, which is very important. The judgment of the Court of Justice is expected to be delivered in the coming months but Advocate General Paolo Mengozzi presented his opinion on the collection and retention of air passenger data (PNR) on 8 September 2016. This is clear: it is incompatible with European Union law. The unconditional retention of data for five years for all passengers travelling between the EU and Canada without any suspicion of these passengers is contrary to the fundamental rights of the Union. This opinion is in line with the Court's annulment of the directive on the retention of personal electronic data, a subject that your colleague Geens is following. According to the Court at that time, a link must be established between the person concerned and a risk, limited in time and space. Despite these warnings, the European Parliament voted in April for a European NRP which provides for a five-year retention period and you are currently working on a Belgian NRP, which is therefore about intra-European travel. If the European judges soon follow the opinion of the Advocate General, the draft directive on the European NRP will therefore be rectified. Your bill will also have lead in the wing. Does this clear and now consistent signal from the highest judicial authority on the continent encourage you to change your shoulder rifle in this area and to focus on measures to facilitate targeted and risk-based investigations, rather than encouraging the mass and indiscriminate collection of personal data? In addition to being illegal, mass collection of air passenger data is ineffective. Rather than accumulating ever-increasing numbers of data disproportionately, would it not be more effective to improve the exchange of information and coordination between Member States? Could you list the initiatives you have taken on this subject with your European partners? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u110	Mr. Hellings, I'm not used to changing my shoulder rifle. That is a first remark. Secondly, more seriously, the draft Belgian PNR law is a transposition of Directive 2016/681 of 27 April 2016, and not of the draft agreement between the European Union and Canada. It's something else. With regard to the Directive of 27 April 2016, a legal agreement was reached in the European bodies after having gone through all stages of the legal project, including the necessary requests for opinions, including with regard to the protection of privacy. This directive is therefore no longer a draft, since in the meantime it has been published and entered into force. Furthermore, the Directive of 27 April 2016 is not currently contested because no action for annulment has been lodged. So there's no problem. With regard to the draft agreement between Canada and the EU, despite the view of the Advocate General, who states that certain points comply with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and others do not, it should be pointed out that the expected opinion of the Court of Justice will have no legal impact on the Directive of 27 April 2016. Indeed, the opinion deals with the draft PNR agreement between Canada and the EU and not with this directive, which is the basis of our PNR law. That is the answer to the first question. The next question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u111	Mr Minister, I will read to you point 4 of the introduction of the Advocate General's opinion to the Court, which states: "Irrespective of its content, the Court's response to this request will necessarily have implications for the so-called PNR agreements with Australia, the United States... as well as for the future PNR regime in the EU itself, which has recently been approved by Parliament as you have stated. So, inevitably, when the opinion of the Court of Justice is given with regard to this agreement between the EU and Canada, this will have an impact since it is exactly the same provisions that are made in the agreement with the United States, which has been in force for a long time, in the agreement with Canada that will enter into force if the EU persists in this approach, and in the agreement with Australia. There will be consequences! Since the Belgian Constitutional Court is a docile student and particularly applied to decisions taken by the Court of Justice of the EU, you will receive a recourse to the Constitutional Court. The Court of Justice will be able to rely on a very long, extremely comprehensive argument. You who aim for efficiency, like us, but not by the same methods, you will end up with a obsolete diet that will be broken before the Court for good reasons. It is much easier and much more useful to collect data targeted at people who pose a risk or danger, while here you aim to collect data from everyone, which will completely drown your data services, which they will not be able to use properly. Focus on data targeting rather than massive surveillance, which is totally ineffective. I would remind you that Abdeslam, when he allegedly crossed the border several times, did not enter the PNR radar because he did not take the plane and was still checked several times by the police. It was enough to introduce his name and identity card into the existing system and we could have captured him long before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u112	Mr President, in Parliament incidents are often closed by you, but incidents in nuclear power plants are rarely closed by the minister. The Tihange 2 nuclear reactor was shut down as a matter of urgency on the night of Friday, 9 September, when Tihange 1 was already shut down at the same time following another incident and on 9 July last, the Tihange 2 nuclear reactor had already been shut down following an incident related to a leak in the steam turbine hydraulic system as the reactor was leaving a maintenance operation. Can you tell us more about this new September 9th incident? What are the causes and consequences? Can you tell us what measures have been taken and put in place to prevent such incidents from happening again? I'll go back to what we were saying earlier. There are again incidents in Tihange where AFCN had already filed two pro justitia because there was a succession of deviations from what is considered necessary as a safety culture. We're back in the morning and we're in the dark. Do you not find that this multiplication of incidents leading to the decommissioning of reactors is beginning to be an issue when reminders have been made? I'll be even harder on the next incident for which I'll be questioning you in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u113	Mr President, Mr Nollet, on 9 September, the Tihange 2 reactor stopped following the start of the reactor shutdown signal. The reactor had to restart the next day, Saturday, September 10. This automatic emergency shutdown was generated by the inadvertent closure of one of the secondary circuit valves due to oil loss. This valve controls the inflow of secondary water into the steam generator. The steam generator on the valve circuit no longer receiving enough water, a low-water signal in this element was automatically generated. This signal automatically generates the shutdown of the reactor. The consequences of this problem are mainly a loss of production. In terms of safety, the reactor was shut down as intended in the design for this type of incident, resulting from a zero-level INES assessment. The operator will then carefully study this incident in order to better adapt its equipment maintenance and maintenance program to prevent this type of incident causing loss of production. All security systems have been developed in a conservative manner. At the slightest distance, they're going on. The resulting loss of production does not play any role here. Nuclear security remains the highest priority. In Belgium, communication about these events is always openly carried out with, each time, an assessment of the level on the INES scale, in order to give the population an idea of the seriousness of the events, as we also know the Richter scale for earthquakes. In this case, the incident was classified below scale. On the Richter scale, this means that there was no earthquake. On the INES scale, this means that no anomalies have been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u114	Mr President, I will reply to the following answer, so as not to make the same reasoning twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u115	Mr President, Minister, the Tihange 1 nuclear reactor was shut down as a matter of urgency on 7 September following damage to a building during construction. In particular, it appears that the spare pumps have been damaged and that civil engineering work is required. Can you tell us more about this new September 7th incident? What are the causes and consequences? How long will this plant have to stay at a standstill? What work was required as a result of this incident? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? Can you tell us what measures have been put in place to prevent such incidents from happening again? Do you not find that this multiplication of incidents leading to the decommissioning of reactors is beginning to be really challenging? Can you also tell us why the promise to distribute iodine pills to each Belgian family has not yet been realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u116	Dear colleague, on 7 September, Electrabel shut down the Tihange 1 reactor, in accordance with the technical specifications for operating nuclear reactors, following damage to a building near the reactor containing safety equipment which is required for normal operation. Electrabel put the reactor in a state of shutdown, a condition for which such equipment is not required. This occurred when work was carried out on the long-term operation project for the Tihange 1 reactor. Planned improvements include the construction of a new building connected to the existing building by galleries to house electrical cables and pipelines. During the construction of a supporting pile of one of these galleries, an injected package would have been diverted and carried out a thrust on a concrete slab of the neighbouring building. The impact of this incident was analysed and classified at level 0 on the INES scale, taking into account the damage directly detectable, i.e. the unavailability of redundant safety equipment. Expertise is under way to determine the actual extent of the damage and to ensure the structural integrity of the building. Based on the results of the assessments, the operator will define the appropriate measures to repair the damage and demonstrate the structural integrity of the building. In the longer term, Electrabel is required to conduct a thorough analysis of the incident, in order to identify its root causes, and to identify appropriate measures to prevent recurrence. Like safety systems, safety specifications for nuclear power plants have been created in a conservative manner. The possible unavailability of a redundant safety system, as a result of damage to the building in which it is located, was sufficient here to stop the installation. The resulting loss of production does not play any role here. Nuclear security remains the highest priority. As indicated in my answer to question No. 13399 by Ms.Caprasse, the objective is to be able to submit, at the end of 2016, a version of the draft of the new emergency plan to the government. The plan also includes the new iodine distribution strategy. You're asking me if the number of incidents doesn't bother me. Yes and no. It depends on what incidents. There are incidents that demonstrate that the security system is working. Here, it's a redundant piece, so we could replace it and continue. That's why we have redundant parts. But, no, through the procedures, we decide to stop the plant and I support this procedure. It is a matter of good management. I differentiate incidents. I'm not worried about an incident like this. There are other things that are related to non-compliance with procedures, to the culture of security, and that worries me much more. I would add that I have had some contact with my colleague from the Netherlands. There, they don't report for INES 0 incidents. They don't care about that, because no one knows. We've made our decision and we're still publishing this kind of thing. I think it is important to inform the public. However, there is still a need to distinguish between worrying and non-disquieting incidents, in which the security system has worked. I ask you to make this distinction, out of intellectual honesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u117	Minister, I am quite prepared to distinguish one incident from another. I have no problem with this, but I have to ask you about the exact nature of the incident before I can judge it. Be aware that nothing has yet been published. There is only information available on the markets where the plant is unavailable. And you have it in Belgium as in the Netherlands. It's not a question of INES 0 or INES 1 because when I ask you, I don't know what will happen to the INES classification. You're the one who tells me it's INES 0. You're telling me that in the Netherlands, we wouldn't have been informed about this. I'm so sorry. My question relates to the fact that a power station that should operate is at a standstill and that the information has been disseminated on European markets. So I could have seen exactly the same thing in the Netherlands and asked the question if I had been a Dutch Member. [[It was not because the Federal Agency would have published that I interviewed you, but because there was a stop.]] My question was about the origin of the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u118	Mr Nollet, my intention was not to prohibit you from questioning me, but to remind you that there are different types of incidents. I'd do the same thing as you if I were in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u119	So, the right tone is given in the replica. As I ask you the question, I see a succession of incidents, but I don't know what it is. I must admit that, for this incident, it is not a safety culture problem, as in my previous questions where I have been very hard - as you did. Having said that, I have noted in your answer that the impact on the building is still being analysed. This may require further action as soon as we know exactly the consequences for the building, even if the spare part was eventually available. I will therefore come back to you as soon as we have a more in-depth examination of this aspect of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u120	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo and Mr von der Vring. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lachaert's 13606 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament 13660 by Mr Nollet were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u121	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the commissioning of the 100/112 centre in Walloon Brabant. The project to create a 100/112 centre has been mentioned for several years but unfortunately has not yet been set up. A location had already been chosen on Wavre, the capital of the province, right next to the CIC, with an operationality that could be done quite quickly. Maybe you've already visited the site. I regret that once again, the file is stagnating. However, recruitment had already been planned and the province was ready to participate in the funding as well. However, the Walloon Brabant with its unique rescue zone, pioneer in this field - it has been a long time since all the fire brigades worked together in Walloon Brabant-, is in great need of this center 100. It seems legitimate to me that it has one rather than to depend on other centres 100 each time depending on the location of the call, depending on whether you are near Mons, Hainaut, Liège or Brussels. As you know, in terms of relief, every second counts, and it would be more efficient to own a 100 center close to the ground. Minister, is the plan to create a 100/112 centre in Walloon Brabant still relevant? Can you give me more details on the status of this case? Is the planned location in Wavre still up to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u122	Mr. Crusnière, the operational concept and technological architecture of the emergency call centres are part of the Single Emergency Call Numbers 112 project. In collaboration with the FPS Public Health and the Federal Police, my administration is working on a path of change with the aim of:- setting up the single emergency number 112 for any emergency assistance as requested by Europe; - the establishment of a national technological architecture, unlike the provincial intersections we know today; - the introduction of a pre-call taking in order to prevent unnecessary calls from overloading power stations and to allow citizens to benefit more quickly from adequate assistance and to be assisted in their own language. The network connection between the various power stations will also make it possible to manage in a more effective way the major crises such as the attacks we experienced on 22 March. This is indeed a recommendation of the parliamentary committee. With this in mind, the physical opening of a new 112 centre in the Walloon Brabant is no longer indispensable. The architecture means that calls are sent directly to the police and firefighters. One of the sub-projects of concept 112 is the harmonization of procedures in the various provincial centres, since calls made in the province of Walloon Brabant are currently handled by three other emergency centres, depending on where the caller is located. Harmonization will make it possible to optimize services to the citizens of the Walloon Brabant province. All the parties involved are involved in this new concept 112, which will be submitted to the government. I will not fail to inform you of this in due course. It is a change of architecture for which there is no need to have a telephone exchange in each province. We can centralize everything and immediately send the teams to the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u123	Minister, thank you for your answers. In concrete terms, the operators who will take the call are all centralized in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u124	No. (gsm disruptions). There is no need to open other centres 112. Today, we still make a distinction. The 100 goes to the fire department and the 101 goes to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u125	If it's for the firefighters, we're directing him to the rescue zone concerned, and it's the same thing for the police. So we're going to save a lot of time. We're going to install the unique number 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u126	I can hear you, but for now, there are 100 centres in the other provinces but not in Walloon Brabant. These 100 centres will remain and work in the new architecture planned. This means, in this logic, that we in Walloon Brabant will again be injured, because we will not benefit from a 112 or other call centre, in the same way as the other Walloon provinces. We will always be dependent, in case of a call, on Brussels, Namur or Hainaut, depending on the location. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u127	This is going to be the system everywhere, when one power plant is overloaded, immediately we relay to another power plant. [[Inaudible]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will shorten the call time and much faster put on the ground (...) [[Inaudible]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u128	(...) [[failure of mobile phone]] At that time I questioned Secretary of State Francken because it had already come to my attention that there had already been a number of incidents that police forces entered a house without the permission of residents to take people without papers or people who have been tried for expulsion. You know that the law states that a property can only be entered if there is a search warrant or if there are people in distress in the house. That is so laid down in our Constitution. Your colleague gave me a thorough answer to that question, particularly as regards procedures, but he had no knowledge of entering a house by the police without permission or without a search warrant. We have had the case of the Kosovar girl Djellza that they wanted to turn off. There was also talk that one would have entered the house without permission and without being in possession of a search warrant. At least that's what the lawyer announced. The lawyer also stated that he would file a complaint. My question is whether you have any knowledge of such cases where the police are invading homes to actively track people down? Are there any complaints about this and how many complaints have you received about it? This is in principle contrary to Article 15 of the Constitution on the inviolability of the home. In that principle, it is only allowed to enter the house with a search warrant. How is this done on the ground? With regard to the case on which a complaint was made, will that incident have any effect if it turns out that the police did indeed enter without permission? Are you prepared, possibly by means of a circular or consultation body, to draw the attention of the police to the relevant legislation, to point out that infringements of the rules cannot be done and to avoid any future infringements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u129	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, I know that the return policy is of particular interest to you and is close to your heart. From time to time, you even tell the competent Secretary of State that he is still doing too little about return policy. We try to do so as efficiently as possible to meet your desires and expectations. From what you have said in your first question, I have no knowledge. The follow-up of complaints about police action is one of the powers of control bodies in the police services, the general inspection of the P Committee. I do not think there is any statistical data on this. The order to leave the territory, drawn up by the Department of Foreign Affairs, is automatically enforceable by the police forces as an administrative act and thus without any other intervention. Despite the inviolability of the home, the police remain competent to identify malpractices and crimes committed in the act. In the present case, there is a malpractice, namely the illegal residence in Belgium, in view of the fact that the person concerned does not, or no longer, fulfil the conditions for entry to, or residence in, the territory. The illegal residence is a continuous crime, with the result that on the basis of (...) the property can be entered 24 hours a day without a search warrant or permission from the resident. It is not a search, but rather the intrusion of a home to hold a particular person administratively with a view to his removal from the territory, a matter on which you also repeatedly (...). That procedure expressly presupposes that there are concrete indications that the person concerned is in the residence. For this purpose, it is necessary that the accompanying police officer has the status of a judicial police officer, auxiliary officer of the King's Attorney General. The judicial police officers may provide assistance in this regard. In reply to your third question, I can say that it is up to the competent disciplinary bodies to respond appropriately if the police officers had not respected their professional obligations and/or powers. Finally, the relevant legislation and the deontological obligations are already the subject of compulsory training by police officers and subsequent training courses. In addition, every police officer is in possession of the deontological code which clearly underlines the values in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u130	For the sake of clarity, Minister, you started by saying that I insisted on a correct expulsion policy and that people who were effectively ordered to leave the territory should do the same. As far as I am concerned, the figure proposed by the Secretary of State must be even higher; that is true. But I have always said that this must be done in a correct and humane way. What I find very strange is that you are telling us now, contrary to what happened earlier and to what your colleague, Theo Francken, has said, that the property can be accessed if it concerns people who are staying here illegally. That's totally new to me. I do not think that is a government policy either. If you do so, I believe that the legislation should be adapted accordingly. In my opinion, entering a home requires a search warrant, unless there is an emergency or an acute danger, for example if someone is a threat to the safety of our country. If there is a terrorist present, of course one will not ask if one can enter. In the case of expulsions, however, it has never happened so far that homes were entered without a search warrant. Here you are actually saying that if you know where people live, you can actively track them down and get them out of their homes without their permission. I have serious questions about this and I do not think that this is in line with the provisions of our Constitution. I will also follow up on the results of the complaints that have been made. I might be wrong, but I'm not the only one. Then I think that the previous Ministers of Asylum and Migration, including your own Secretary of State, were also mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u131	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin has converted 13556 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 13568 will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 13574 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 13577 will also be answered by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u132	Mr President, Minister, five years after the Fukushima disaster and while this year 2016 is also marked by the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, we can only bitterly regret that our country has no plan to evacuate the population in the event of a nuclear accident. An opinion from the Scientific Council of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency revealed the absence of an emergency evacuation plan for populations in the event of a nuclear accident. It is no longer admissible that a country like ours, since it appears that the reliability of our nuclear reactors is subject to bail, cannot quickly take measures to deal with a risk of nuclear accidents, of any scale whatsoever. Predictability is an essential element of political action. While the authorities cannot be blamed for recommending the distribution of iodine pellets or expanding containment areas, there is currently no plan for rehousing the population and, more generally, a crisis management plan in the event of an accident. I would also like to be concerned by the comments made by Professor Damien Ernst of the University of Liège, who said that the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants did not comply with the new seismic safety recommendations issued by the association of European nuclear regulators and which are expected to be transposed into national law by the end of 2017, and that the planned expenditure to carry out this compliance work was not budgeted. We are currently in the most complete state of artistic blur. Apart from the fact that the well-known inter-federal energy pact promised is waiting, the security of the country in the event of a nuclear accident is not guaranteed, which is even more serious. Every month that passes gives us disturbing revelations about the vulnerability of our power plants, security problems. Denying the risk of a nuclear accident has become politically irresponsible. Belgium must now take the necessary measures. I would add that the French-language weekly Le Vif-L'express, in its edition of August 19, 2016, clearly highlighted the seriousness of the situation, on the basis of well-founded elements of expertise. We will not be able with impunity to organise a maximum possible displacement of one million of our citizens in the event of a severe accident, without taking drastic preventive evacuation measures. Minister, is the nuclear emergency plan considered a priority by your office? If so, when will it be presented to the Council of Ministers? What will be the procedure to be followed at the level of regional, provincial, and local authorities, if this is already at the project stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u133	I am a little – and even loud – surprised to hear that Belgium would not be in a position to take prompt action to respond to a risk of a nuclear accident, notwithstanding its scale, or that our country would have no evacuation plan for the population. This is detrimental to the fact that, since 1991, our country has had a national nuclear emergency plan, defined by royal decree. The plan was updated in 2003. Subsequently, the Governors developed specific contingency and response plans with attention for the execution of the evacuation in the evacuation zone provided for that purpose. In the Council's opinion on the nuclear emergency plan that I received, there is no evidence to support such assertions. This does not mean, however, that the current nuclear emergency plan and the resulting implementation cannot be improved. In fact, the emergency plans and the visions underlying them are constantly being questioned, particularly during the annual exercises organised around the emergency plan since 1991. I can confirm that nuclear emergency preparedness is one of the government's and myself's priorities. In the process of updating the nuclear emergency plan currently under way, several factors are taken into account: the results of the exercise, the conclusions of actual situations, such as the accident in Fukushima, the national opinions of the Higher Health Council and the Scientific Council of AFCN, international opinions and guidelines at European level from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the results of working groups, for example with the governors and mayors concerned, but also with the federal departments and representatives of the federated authorities. In the current version of the draft new emergency plan, detailed attention is paid to the role of the authorities at the federal level, at the level of the federal authorities, the governors and the mayors concerned. The current draft of a new contingency plan has recently been submitted for comments to the experts of the above-mentioned authorities. The goal is to be able to submit, at the end of 2016, as I have said on several occasions, a version of the project to the government, which will take into account any comments from the government and other partners. By partners, I mean operators, experts, radiological institutes and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u134	I wasn't saying that nothing existed, but I think it's important to hear you say that the contingency plan is being reviewed and corrected. It's exactly as in all the circumstances of the attacks. We all have to constantly question each other. Every additional incident leads to a new reflection, I am sure. I don't think the question I asked you was so insignificant, as you answered that there are permanent questions. It reassures us. We will pay attention to the future, so that we can follow the details of these new plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u135	Questions Nos 13638 and 13639 by Mrs Van Cauter have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 13660 by Mr Nollet, combined with Question No Mr Calvo 13522 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u136	Mr President, Minister, the 16 September press tells us that in less than 10 days, as many as 40,000 Chinese crabs have been recovered from the Doel nuclear power plant. If this individual enemy is not immediately dangerous, its massive presence poses serious problems, especially for cooling water pumping systems in the Scheldt. Has this situation ever occurred in the past? If so, how much? What measures are being taken to deal with this invasion? The mayor of Aarschot claims to have tried everything to block them. He almost even called in the army, but nothing does. Do you validate this reasoning, that everything has been done but nothing can be done? What are the risks at the Doel power plant if nothing can be done to prevent Chinese crabs from invading the Scheldt by mass? What reaction and follow-up are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u137	Mr Nollet, this type of problem has not yet been encountered, whether with crabs or fish. Since the Scheldt is a fish-rich river, Doel is equipped with sufficient preventive devices, including filters that discharge living organisms into the river as well as an acoustic defense system designed to keep the organisms away from the tertiary cooling system as far as possible. These devices must, on the one hand, minimise the ecological impact of the plant on the Scheldt and, on the other hand, prevent olfactory nuisances and waste. As announced in the press on 16 September 2016, a project to combat this crab has been launched at Flemish level. I suggest that you address this question to the Minister responsible for the environment. Such an invasion does not pose a direct problem in terms of nuclear safety. In normal operation, the Doel nuclear power plant draws its refrigerant from the Scheldt. However, the plant was designed to cope with a loss of pipelines connecting it with the Scheldt. This could occur if the two water intakes of Doel 1 and 2 and Doel 3 and 4 were blocked or lost. In the event of a loss of water supply from the Scheldt, small cooling towers ensure the cooling of safety-related circuits and, in the event of loss of these towers, closed cooling circuits cooled by external air (Doel 1 and 2) or emergency cooling basins (Doel 3 and 4) take over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u138	Minister, I note that, contrary to what has been written, at this stage there is no impact on the plant. Even if there is an impact, rescue systems can be activated but they have not yet been activated as a result of this Chinese crab invasion. Enjoy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u139	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 13693 question was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 13694, 13695 and 13697 by Mr Top are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u140	Mr President, Minister, the recent annual report of the AIG gives us an overview of the checks it carries out on police forces in the context of the supervision of people who are forced to be expelled. The 2015 report now also provides for a number of recommendations. For example, the AIG notes that the services responsible for the supervision of foreigners on forced return do not have information on the attitude of the person to be removed. Knowledge or information on the psychosocial condition of the person to be removed is not present, while it may be useful for the police to make a better assessment of the risk of violence in the event of removal. In about half of the persons to be removed, there was no information available before the start of the escort. Their attitude towards their removal, their mental attitude, the chance of rebellion or physical aggression were therefore unknown to the police. What measures have been taken in the meantime to address this problem? What measures do you intend to take? Is a sheet made available to the team for each person to be removed, which gives a profile of the psychosocial condition of the person to be removed? I believe that this is also in the interests of the security of the policemen themselves, in addition to the safety of the person to be removed, of course. One of the persons to be removed, as the report said, spoke only Arabic. The members of the AIG could not communicate with him and they were convinced that the man hardly understood what would happen and that he therefore signed documents clearly failing to understand what he was signing. How does the guidance of persons who apparently do not speak a common language of their escorts go? How then will they be assisted? Can it be ensured that at least someone is present in people who speak only a foreign language, other than English or French? Can they be assisted in the expulsion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u141	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, prior to departure there are risk analyses on the person to be removed, the country of destination and the itinerary. For the person to be removed, this is partly done through a file analysis and partly through the contacts between the services concerned. The file analysis includes the profile sheet, the ANG check and previous attempts. The services concerned are the Foreign Affairs Office, the centre where the person concerned was received and the aviation police BRUNAT van Zaventem. In order to provide an answer to the problems raised, the profile sheet, (...), was developed by the Foreign Office, which is used by all centres. A correctly completed sheet makes a risk analysis of the persons to be removed considerably easier. That risk analysis is crucial for taking measures to control as many risks as possible associated with the assignments, such as for determining the framework for the transfer, the escort and the use or non-use of coercive means. Risk analyses are constantly updated, once the person to be removed on site is in the premises of the aviation police in Zaventem. I can answer your second question as follows. A profile sheet shall be drawn up for persons to be removed from the centres of the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is noted that the information contained in these guidance sheets could be more qualitatively completed. As the case may be, LPA BRUNAT contacts the center on the day before the removal order to assess, for example, the attitude and mood of the persons. For those persons who may need special care during removal, a separate list is drawn up weekly by the centres and delivered to the federal police via the Foreign Office. On this basis, an additional risk analysis is made which may result in an adapted guidance or framework during the removal of that person. For the persons to be removed from prisons, the exchange of information as described above is not yet carried out and most of the information is lacking in order to carry out a correct risk analysis. For the sake of medical professional secrecy, the fitness certificate, a certificate issued from prisons or centres, shall not contain all the information which may be useful and necessary for the health and well-being of the escorts and the persons to be removed. The coordination and return working group of Mr Francken, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, is working on the exchange of information with a view to achieving a uniform and qualitative approach, both for removal from prisons and from reception centres. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, guidance, paying attention to the language of the person concerned, takes place at different levels. Before their removal, the persons to be removed are already being prepared for their removal in the centres of the Foreign Office. Those centres have DVDs available to visualize the whole process, with comments in 17 different languages. The centres also have specific sheets containing information on the various aspects of disposal, explaining forms and procedures. If necessary, an interpreter is hired by the Department of Foreign Affairs in the centres to provide a detailed explanation. Also during the removal process carried out by the federal police at Brussels Airport, extra attention is paid to communication in foreign languages. Within the federal police there are several staff who speak a variety of foreign languages, including Arabic, Turkish, Spanish, Russian, Italian, Serbian and Polish. If they can provide added value, those staff will be deployed or involved in the removal process. It should also be noted that the federal police at Brussels Airport have attracted many staff who speak foreign languages and also give other staff the opportunity to learn a new language useful for the border and/or removal process. After all, the foreign language aspect is important not only for the removal process, but also for the border control activities of the federal police at Brussels Airport. In exceptional cases, the federal police call on staff within the airport community to interpret. They may then be air carrier or handling company staff. Finally, technological means are also deployed to communicate, if necessary, translation computers, Google Translate and so on. The above, I think, shows that the federal police are trying to make the removal process as humane as possible, including in the field of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u142	Mr Minister, the fact that these recommendations are contained in the annual report which has recently been published is not a report of mine, but the AIG report points out that problems have so far been identified, that they are being addressed and that recommendations are being made. It is a good thing that you acknowledge that some of the fact sheets have not been properly filled in and that there are still some problems with the chips coming from the prisons. I think it is right that the recommendation to provide everyone with a sheet should be followed by the working group you mention. I hope that we will do the same in the future. So make sure that this recommendation is also implemented effectively. Secondly, with regard to the problem of language, it is a good thing that people in the centres are being prepared for it. You give plenty of opportunities at the airport to use interpreters if necessary. Apparently, this is not always used, as AIG indicates that she has a problem there. They say that people not only do not understand them, but also have to sign documents in a language that they do not know at all. I don't think this is possible. The police must ensure that there is either a prior guidance, or that the many options at the airport you list are also used effectively. After all, I find it risky that people should sign something in a language they don't know. Afterwards, problems could be created. I hope that this can also be discussed in that working group and that it can be considered how this problem can be avoided in the future. There are plenty of possibilities, but apparently they are not being used enough. Otherwise, AIG wouldn't report that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic493x.u143	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 137, by Mr Yüksel Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr
