ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u1	Questions No 7115 by Mrs Fonck and No 7204 by Mr Seneseal were postponed. We come to the attached questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday, November 10, 2015, the Scientific Institute of Public Health (SPH) published, for the first time, an assessment of hygiene in 105 health care facilities across our country. These hospitals provided data on hygiene in their services. Dated from 2013, this information was then classified by the PSI on the basis of three indicators: the organisation, the means invested and the action indicator. It evaluates infection surveillance and audits in hospitals. The results are generally positive. In particular, this study shows that the meticillin-resistant golden staphylococcus (MRSA) is in sharp decline. It has, in fact, been divided by three in 10 years, which is excellent news. Another positive aspect of the report is the increasing compliance in hospitals with the recommendations on hand hygiene. We can therefore only welcome these results. However, other aspects of the report raise questions. There are significant disparities between the different regions, such as greater organisational problems in Brussels. The number of hours of training also varies greatly between hospitals, as well as the number of participants. In the "action" category, weakness is more prevalent in Wallonia. Finally, there are also shortcomings in epidemiological surveillance, particularly infections in intensive care units. PSI also makes some recommendations. For example, to strengthen the fight against nosocomial infections, hospitals should integrate the hospital health strategy plan into their overall strategic plan. Process audits should also be encouraged. Minister, have you had the opportunity to go through this general assessment and, if so, how do you view the conclusions made? What specific initiatives and concrete actions have you already adopted to solve hygiene problems in hospital centres? What PSI recommendations do you prefer and for which you might have reservations? Finally, have you started a wide-ranging consultation with health actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u3	Madam Secretary, if you find it easier, I can directly link point 7 to that, about quality care. That's basically about the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u4	I'd rather deal with it separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u5	Good. Actually, the question is very simple. The Scientific Institute for Public Health has established that 2 500 to 3 000 people die every year because they become infected with hospital bacteria. It is said that this has two causes, insufficient hand hygiene in staff and too much antibiotics. The most important thing is that the WIV believes that an external organisation should monitor the control of hospital bacteria and the adaptation of the use of antibiotics. Now the hospitals do that themselves. Madam Secretary, what do you think of these recommendations? Do you intend to introduce measures to reduce the number of deaths from hospital bacteria? If so, what is the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u6	Colleagues, for several years, the concrete actions chosen to solve hygiene problems in hospital centres have been the financing of human resources, i.e. doctors, nurses in proportion to the number and index of beds specifically devoted to hospital hygiene, including the financing of campaigns to promote hygiene of the hands. The hospital hygiene quality indicator project is a first step towards transparency at the federal level. With regard to consultation with health actors, it is important to point out that the project was carried out in close collaboration with hospital representatives through the Federal Hospital Hygiene Platform. All important decisions, such as the choice of indicators or the calculation of scores, have been validated by this platform. In Flanders, the Vlaamse Indicatorenproject 2 project was launched with several indicators, including two specific indicators related to hospital hygiene, i.e. basic criteria and MRSA septicemia. In order to reduce the administrative burden and to encourage participation in this initiative, the collection of these indicators is carried out through the modules of the Institute of Public Health. In addition, since July 2014, there has been the official and active support of the field in collaboration with the inspection service of the Communities and Regions. These activities are part of the Multidrug Resistant Organisms Protocol, the aim of which is to promote and stimulate a policy for hospital hygiene by the authorities concerned and all other bodies such as the Scientific Institute of Public Health, the KCE, the Higher Council of Health, the Belgian Commission for the Coordination of Antibiotic Policy (BAPCOC). Insufficient hand hygiene is indeed an important underlying cause of nosocomial infections. An important number of nosocomial infections are due to other factors or require other preventive measures, including the occurrence of post-operative wound infections, infections due to invasive medical devices, e.g. catheters, flu vaccination of healthcare professionals. The Scientific Institute for Public Health advocates an external quality control system for the data collected in the framework of quality indicators for hospital hygiene. The aim is to evaluate and preserve clearly defined and measurable indicators. The supporting documents which must also be determined must be checked in hospitals and, of course, their reliability must also be verified. The demand for external control, as formulated by the Scientific Institute for Public Health, should therefore be targeted. We will take this with us and will examine within the Public Health Office what adjustments still need to be made in order to further roll out the important preventive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u7	I would like to thank you, Minister, for these few pieces of information and to tell you that we will remain attentive to the developments and actions that you will take in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u8	I am particularly pleased, Madam Minister, that you understand the seriousness of the situation. We must keep an eye on the progress of possible measures. These measures could include, where appropriate, an external audit. I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u9	Madam Minister, this question is linked to the previous question. It is about an ongoing investigation by the Flemish Health Inspectorate, which has not yet been completed, but whose results have been obtained so far, can be found on their website. This study revealed that 25% of Flemish hospitals are not in order to comply with quality standards. 75 campuses, others still follow, took into account daily care such as wristbands for patients, patient records, equipment maintenance, staff permanence, medication safety and so on. Twenty of these campuses scored an insufficient on one or more points of interest. According to the medical failure vzw, medical failure starts with this kind of sloppyness. The association therefore advocates an umbrella body with experts and patient associations and a number of recommendations in this area. Madam Secretary, do you follow up on this report from the Flemish Health Inspectorate? Are you planning measures to dive into the difficulties of certain hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u10	I wanted to deal with this question separately from the question about the Scientific Institute for Public Health because this is much broader than hand hygiene. Within the context of the new monitoring model of the Flemish Health Inspectorate, both the surgical and the internalist care process in all hospitals have been evaluated so far. The federal government is not competent to impose obligations on the elements identified as bottlenecks by the Flemish Health Inspectorate, in particular the identification tapes, the maintenance of the appliances and the medication safety. We can only use the Royal Decree No. 78 for the exercise of the health professions, where appropriate, include specific criteria for individual professionals. Legally, that's the only possibility we have. Since 2007, the FPS Public Health has been working on a more structured and systematic approach to quality and patient safety in all Belgian hospitals. In the context of the multi-annual programme on quality and patient safety, current themes such as identitovigilance, safe surgery, medication safety and high-risk medication are included and explicitly put forward. The hospitals are questioned about this every year. The FPS Public Health offers extensive support to hospitals and collaborates with the six universities and three Ecoles de la Santé publications. These centres of expertise develop annual activities, including safe surgery, identitovigilance and medication safety. More and more hospitals are opting for accreditation. To sell a certificate, for example from Joint Commission International or the Netherlands Institute for Accreditation in de Zorg, these hospitals are thoroughly vetted. The issues listed in the evaluation of the Flemish Health Inspectorate are also specific concerns in an accreditation process. Thus, the initiatives taken by the federal government and the regional authorities all contribute to improving the quality of care. In general, it can be said that this is a real cultural change. However, changing a culture or a use is a slow process. Integrating multidisciplinary communication into the training of healthcare providers could also be an important step and contribution to accelerating this change in use or culture. We've come a long way, but there's still work on the shelf. Everything is important, both the safety of surgery and the safety of medication. However, also very important is the identitovigilance. After all, nobody wants to wake up after an intervention intended for another person. However, vigilance is still important in this respect too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I was convinced that you too would be concerned about the issue. It is true that we have come a long way and that things are not quite on wheels yet. I therefore propose that we continue to monitor the matter closely. The investigation of the Flemish Health Inspectorate is likely to produce new data. I'm assuming you'll follow up on the file. We will, of course, do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u12	Question No 7484 by Mrs Fonck is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I have not had a chance to wish you a happy New Year. I wish you good health. A study by Ghent University and VUB calculated that drugs, tobacco and pills cost our society about EUR 4.5 billion, or 1.19% of GDP. Those are hallucinating numbers. Within that group, alcohol would be the largest social cost, in particular EUR 2 billion. So the small increase in excise duty that this government has recently introduced is certainly not enough. More drastic measures are needed, such as tighter regulation of advertising of alcoholic products and better control of advertising of alcoholic and tobacco products. Madam Minister, in June I asked you a question about controls on alcohol consumption among young people. You replied plasticly that the policy did not work because the inspectors were visible as zebras in a herd of horses. At that time we made a joke about the restyling of the inspectors. However, recent research now also reveals the problem of the older generation. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. Firstly, what is the situation with regard to controls on young people? Have you recruited additional auditors or have you found another solution? Secondly, will you also pursue a policy in favour of older generations in relation to risky use, for example through the general practitioner? Thirdly, would it not be better to address alcohol producers in order to achieve a greater health effect through the tightening of advertising and its control? In short, what specific policies will you pursue with regard to the use of medicines such as alcohol, tobacco, drugs and psychoactive drugs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u14	Mrs Dedry, I remember some of my zebras being interviewed at the time. I found them very strange. I was already aware of some of the problems they had with the controls, but I could also read about the practice. All madness on a stick, the control and protection of young people in terms of alcohol consumption is and remains a priority, because it is important for public health. As I have just reported, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Office will continue to carry out 5 000 checks this year. Over 3,500 checks were already carried out in the first three trimesters of the previous year 2015. So the service was well on schedule. In the last few weeks of 2015, the Audit Service paid extra attention to the end-trimester celebrations and the many Christmas markets. I had announced that we would carry out targeted checks at the end of the exams, at the party period, at the Christmas markets, at Saint-V, which, for other reasons, fell partly into the water. So we are going to do really targeted checks, including near schools and other places where young people gather, in youth clubs and so on. The Audit Service will also produce a new brochure, which will work through the municipalities to raise awareness among youth organisations about the application of legislation to youth events and events. It is very important that the organisers, mostly youth groups, take their own responsibility and sensitise, so that young people do not get drunk or leave. I am told that sometimes young people come drunk, after they first charge themselves with alcohol at home and then go to the party where they drink Coke. That's a problem, too. Young people are often put forward as the priority group for which we have to work in terms of alcohol consumption, but we should not be blind to other age groups where there are sometimes problems. The possible form of action will be discussed in the context of an alcohol strategy which is currently being prepared by mutual agreement, as you know, between the various federal, community and regional authorities competent in this area. We are trying to reach an overall compromise on this issue in September or October 2016. Because of its multidimensional nature, a policy on addictive substances requires the cooperation and commitment of many partners, as has been said also by the federal ministers and those of the Länder. It is therefore up to the Drugs thematic meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Health to further coordinate work and set priorities. At the meeting of 19 October 2015, ten priorities were identified to which I will also contribute within the overall Drugs Policy Cell. The priorities are to update the 2010 IMC Joint Declaration on Global and Integrated Drug Policy in Belgium, to formulate policy actions on both tobacco and gambling and to develop an alcohol strategy and new legislation on new psychoactive substances. So they are now also part of the priorities of the general drug policy cell. In the meantime, I have also read a response from one of the members of this general cell. They say it's a lot. It concerns a number of other uses, including in the private sphere, which occur. We need to be as up-to-date as possible. On the other hand, there is also support for a different way of dealing with alcohol and tobacco. Maybe that's less true for the new psychoactive substances, because that's the hardest part. So progress is being made. Except, as you know, these meetings aren't there every day. We have to get a lot of people around the table all the time. There is also always a link back to the policy cell. Those people are working on that and they would be on the schedule of the planned timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive and almost complete reply. I just didn't hear you say anything about advertising and the things that have to do with it. Is that also in the priorities or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u16	Tobacco advertising is part of the transposition of the European directive. It also deals with the packaging of tobacco and cigarettes in particular. We will present its transposition into Belgian law in Parliament in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I wish you a happy New Year. On November 4, 2015, the French Minister of Social Affairs and Health announced the opening of the blood donation to men who have sex with other men. It is clear that this announcement marks a remarkable change of attitude in this matter that we have been following for many years in Parliament. Nevertheless, in the French case, the lifting of the ban on male homosexuals to donate their blood in France is accompanied by the absurd condition that the homosexual donor did not have sexual relations with a partner – in a protected or unprotected manner – for a period of twelve months. This reform therefore does not mark the cessation of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in France concerning the donation of blood. It should be recalled that sexual orientations and identities pose a risk, but sexual behaviour. Our former colleague, Zoé Genot, has had the opportunity to question your predecessors, Mr Demotte and Mrs Onkelinx, on a number of occasions in this committee. A non-discriminatory policy towards homosexuals is possible, while making the donation of blood totally safe for recipients, which is obviously essential. In addition, your Government's agreement states: "Equal opportunities will be actively promoted and all forms of discrimination will be combated". From there, minister, come my questions. Will the discriminatory conditions of blood donation vis-à-vis men in relations with men be rapidly revised in Belgium? Are you planning a consultation with your French counterpart, Marisol Touraine, in order to move in the same direction in Belgium? When can we expect a real evolution of the selection criteria, towards more relevance and non-stigmatization, while being sure that maximum safety is guaranteed for blood recipients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u18	Mr Hellings, I also wish you all the best. I would like to inform you that the Supreme Council of Health is currently considering, at my request, the issue of blood donation by people at risk. I look forward to the findings of this study by the beginning of this year. I will then determine whether there is a need to change the criteria for the exclusion of blood donation. I also asked my administration to organize, in early 2016, a round table where the proposals of the Higher Health Council will be discussed in the presence of the various stakeholders. This means that a more sociological debate will take place, bringing together all the groups concerned. Based on the conclusions of the Higher Council of Health for Science, we will then conduct discussions on these issues in our society. With regard to the possible consultation with Mrs Touraine, my French counterpart, I think it is a little premature. In France, these are pilot projects and the minister will decide after the evaluation of these projects. We are following this carefully. The first step is therefore to wait for these results. In no way is it a question of stigmatizing a part of the population by excluding it from the donation of blood on the basis of its sexual orientation. As you know, Belgian law definitely excludes from blood donation persons who are at high risk of contracting serious infectious diseases transmissible by blood because of their sexual behaviour. This has nothing to do with their sexual orientation, it is their behaviour that is important! This provision is, moreover, the literal transposition of a European directive. With regard to the questionnaire to be completed by the donor, it refers only to sexual practices and in no case to persons. In addition, the pamphlet made available to donor applicants does not contain any elements aimed at homosexuals. In this group for which we will have a discussion, one may wonder whether all the questions included in the questionnaire are necessary. Do these questions contribute to decision-making to accept blood or not? This discussion can be conducted and the Red Cross is not opposed to changing the issues. I've already given blood myself. Finally, I also refer you to the report of the discussion on my policy note. In committee, many questions have been put to me by your colleagues on this very current subject. I answered them in great detail. Scientifically, security must be ensured. However, people cannot be excluded from donating blood when their behaviour poses a low risk. In my view, there is no difference between homosexuals and heterosexuals. If, for example, I frequent a lot of partners while I've been married for 34 years, I have a risky behavior. That is why the statements seem to me to be in vain. I am absolutely open to this discussion at the round table – which will be very broad, since many players are involved. We can therefore reach a solution in this area. I do not want to criticize the pilot project. However, to say that we did not have sex for 12 months seems to me to be a strange criterion. It is difficult for two partners to behave as siblings during this period in order to obtain permission to give blood. That's an exaggeration. Indeed, how many people will find themselves in such asexual behaviour? I express this in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive response and for the clear evolution that has been announced today. I was asking the question because the stake is next. Today, the Red Cross questionnaire says: "If you are a man and have had sex with another man, don't give your blood!" This can have extremely powerful psychological effects in a young homosexual who becomes aware of it. Then, you're right, it's the behaviors that must guide the doctor's choice. It is, of course, the number of different partners, the degree of protection, the type of practices that should enable the person to decide whether or not to give blood and not to belong to a community. I'm totally following you. As far as your round table is concerned, it is an excellent initiative. I assume that all stakeholders will be able to participate. I remember participating in a round table in 2003 or 2004, under Mrs Onkelinx's "Rule". I hope that you will be able to reach a final decision much more effective than at the time. In any case, I wish you and will support you in this regard. The question of France was obviously about the standardization of the criteria. Today, blood donation exists in Belgium, but one could imagine that databases of blood or any other material can be shared at European level to reach those who need it most. Therefore, common European common sense criteria are indicated in this case. In any case, good courage to reach a solution!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u20	I think there is a consensus in this committee to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u21	Madam Minister, the measurement of glycaemia and insulin administration are subject to regulation by nurses and cannot therefore be carried out by health professionals. The Royal Decree of January 2006 is clear about this: it concerns nursing tasks which cannot be carried out by healthcare professionals. From the workplace there have been signs for some time that this situation is causing problems. It is not unknown to us that the presence of nurses in residential care centres is limited. The residential care centers are mainly used by healthcare professionals today. In the evening and at night, there are often only one or two nurses present in a full residential care centre, which causes problems, especially if one knows that one can often not measure the glycaemia in time during a round and, if necessary, can administer insulin. The measurement should be done often before meals. One often does not make it to the round, so one can only perform certain tasks after the meal. Sometimes it is measured, but it is not possible to give insulin, so that the meal is taken too late and there are also problems. In practice, therefore, there are many problems, which are mainly due to the very low number of nurses present in residential care centres, which is also being sued by management and staff. Moreover, a survey carried out by the Belgian Federation of Care Professionals showed that a total of 56% of health care professionals do measure glycaemia in the field. Some do it daily, others do it weekly and others do it sometimes. It is a very high percentage. For insulin administration, the percentage is lower, i. e. 25%. Mrs Onkelinx has taken the right initiative to have certain activities carried out by carers. Subject to proper training by nurses and doctors and a nursing certificate from the caregiver, carers may also measure the glycaemia and insulin today. Caretaker is a recognised profession in the Royal Decree 78. You are right to ask that this recognition be maintained in the Royal Decree. However, the fact that healthcare professionals are not allowed to carry out the mentioned tasks raises questions for me. I feel a distinction is made in the field between measuring the glycaemia and administering insulin. It is felt that measuring glycaemia should certainly be one of the tasks of health care professionals. How do you feel about that? Are you prepared to take these concerns into account in the revision of the Royal Decree 78? I also understand that the Belgian Federation has written to you about the permitted acts which it wishes to see amended. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u22	Mrs Muylle, the problem referred to is well known. The rules for delegation between nurses and healthcare professionals were laid down for the first time by Royal Decree of 12 January 2006. So that was ten years ago. In the meantime, several professionals, in particular health care professionals and their employers, have argued that care professionals should be allowed to carry out more activities which are currently entrusted to nurses. In 2014, my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, submitted a question on an extension of the list of actions that a nurse can delegate to a healthcare professional to the Technical Committee for Nursing. The answer of the Technical Committee for Nursing was negative. If we want to supplement the list of actions for a care professional, we should be able to improve the training of health professionals, which the Technical Committee on Nursing has not been able to do. I then decided to change the shoulder and, on the one hand, to ask the National Council for Nursing and, on the other hand, to ask the Technical Committee for Nursing if they could advise me together on the changes in the training that would be necessary to complete the list of actions that could be entrusted to healthcare professionals. I asked for an answer by February 2016. It is, of course, necessary for the actions to be carried out by a qualified healthcare professional and not by someone technically suitable for this purpose. For example, when measuring the glycaemia, the person performing the measurement and reading the result is not suitable to realize that the result is dangerously low or too high glycaemia, it is a waste of valuable time to call a doctor. Time is also lost to act if one does not know what to do or, worse, interprets the result wrongly as safe, while it is not safe. Only on the basis of the advice of the Council and the committee will I be able to take the necessary measures to amend the legislation. This will therefore be done in the context of the measures to revise the famous Royal Decree 78, which has now been overruled by the Committee, since it is not efficient to take measures for one profession without looking at its impact on another. The information you provide about the research carried out in the residential and care centres by the Belgian Federation of Care Professionals makes eyebrows frown. I have to say that some nurses and healthcare professionals do not always know the legislation on their profession and are not aware of the potential impact on the safety and quality of care. I therefore hope that the Belgian Federation of Caregivers has used the results of the investigation to remind its members who have participated in the investigation, of the rules that have been applied so far. I do not have to tell you that in May 2013, the Liège Correctional Court sentenced a nurse from a residential and care centre to 8 months imprisonment with delay, because he had allowed a healthcare professional to inject insulin in her place. This is dangerous because such an injection must be done properly and the insulin dose must be accurately determined. I believe that it is safe to apply the legislation as it is now pending the amendment of the law. In the context of the definition of care professions, we are trying to work out a more workable division of labour, taking into account staffing in the residential and care centres, knowing that there are only a few people in each department in particular at night. In the meantime, I would also like to call for caution on the ground. It must not be assumed that it is all easy and obvious. Patients who use an insulin pen also know that they have to deal with it first and that one pen is not the other. They also know that the injection site is important and that weird things can happen if they inject too close to a blood vessel, so that the insulin is absorbed at once and massive hypoglycaemia can occur. It's happened to a lot of people. Better safe than sorry . We are working on this in the context of the revision of Royal Decree 78. I have therefore asked for the opinions of both the Council and the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I can only follow your conclusions. It is very important that such tasks are carried out in a safe and quality manner. We are therefore looking forward to the Council's response in February to the question of what should be done in the context of the revision of the Royal Decree 78. I'm just a little surprised today. I have already asked a similar question about other actions in the past. In 2014, we in Parliament approved the extension of many acts to carers. Today, the Federal Council sees insufficient guarantees in the training of healthcare professionals and stresses that the training of healthcare professionals should be improved in order to guarantee safety when they take certain actions. However, such tasks can be taught to carers in a fairly simple way, either by nurses or in a hospital or by a doctor in a particular service. Carers may then carry out such tasks, even if there are risks involved in interpreting the measurements and placement of the pens, which is not evident. In this sense, I urge you to include the story of the carers in the exercise on the definition of the permitted activities for healthcare professionals. My priority, like yours, is patient safety and the legal protection of the care provider.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u24	Mr Frédéric requested the postponement of his question No 7542. We now come to agenda item 13. These are the joint questions of Mrs Muylle (No. 7564) and MM. Mathot (No 7731) and Blanchart (No 7851). Ms. Muylle turned her question into a written question. Mr. Mathot is not present. I give the floor to Mr Blanchart, who wishes to have further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Belgium, illegal residents cannot join a mutual fund but have the right, like every human being, to access health care. For example, they can apply to their municipality's CPAS for Emergency Medical Assistance (AMU). Following a reflection conducted by INAMI in 2014, the KCE was entrusted with an in-depth analysis of the procedures for access to the AMU. This shows that these procedures are complex and widely applied from one CPAS to another. The rate of refusal varies from 2% to 26%, and care also varies, meaning unequal access to care. Following this study, KCE proposes a reform plan to simplify and harmonise administrative procedures and streamline the organisation and monitoring of care practices while monitoring costs. In this way, applicants would be facilitated, CPAS could focus on their social assistance role, and care coverage would be harmonised, modelled on that already granted to asylum seekers. This reform would require consultation between all the institutions involved: social integration services, public health, INAMI, CAAMI and the Union of Cities and Municipalities. Minister, how do you view the report presented by the KCE and the solutions it proposes? What initiatives are in place to follow up on the reforms proposed by the KCE? Is there a cohesion plan between the various institutions involved? Is the necessary consultation, as mentioned in the KCE report, planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u26	This is not the item on agenda item 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u27	I'm so sorry. This is, in fact, the issue under agenda item 58.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u28	It seemed to me that this was not the right question. Mr Blanchart, do you, however, keep your question on the management of mental disorders in the event of a major crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u29	Yeah, I'll put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u30	So do it succinctly because we had addressed this issue in the policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u31	When we come to agenda item 58, I will no longer read the question I have already asked. It will save you time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u32	We are now under agenda item 13. Ask that question. It's either one or the other, but it's not both.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u33	Madam Minister, following the attacks in Paris on 13 November, thousands of people found themselves bereaved or injured mentally and/or physically. France had thus put in place a system to deal with the mental disorders of these many people. Companies and mutuals have also provided assistance in this context. These early care by medical-psychological emergency cells were obviously aimed at defusing the anxieties of traumatized people and, if possible, at avoiding possible psychological sequelae with the most emblematic post-traumatic stress disorder. Minister, what is the percentage of people affected by a traumatic event during their life in Belgium? Have any studies been carried out on the subject? How do you look at the arrangements put in place in France? Is Belgium prepared to develop this kind of initiative in the event of a major crisis to be managed in our territory? Is there a cohesion plan between associations, crisis centres, care centres and mental health services to provide urgent psychological support to a large number of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u34	Mr Blanchart, the KCE report contains a large number of elements to be studied. Two people in my cell are learning about this report and studying the measures to be taken in the context of the problem that you have mentioned. What measures should be taken? The analysis is not yet complete because in addition to the fact that these two people took a few days between Christmas and New Year, they must also take care of other tasks. As soon as I have an answer, I'll send it to you. I don't think we'll have to wait very long. I asked for an analysis of all the facts found by the KCE to inform us about what to measure and how to measure. That is not obvious. As you know, there are now more and more places requested. There are asylum seekers, but there are also people who are pre-requesting asylum. How will we organise this with the relevant services? It is always in favour of those who are seeking asylum. I have the experience: it is the care within the framework of Fedasil and the Red Cross that is carried out. These are relevant questions, given that there is still a mass of people on our territory, among whom there are people who are very precarised, very weak and sensitive. CPAS are competent for urgent care: this has not changed. However, we must look at other necessary care, including psychological care. We really need to analyze the KCE report to see what the skills of Fedasil, the Red Cross, the centres are and how we can work together to look after these people in the centres and avoid a break in the care that is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u35	So you answered the question...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u36	The item on agenda item 58.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u37	There you go. Mr. Blanchart had interrupted his question and had resumed his question under agenda item 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u38	No, I'd been through. I thank the minister for her answer. Indeed, we will be attentive to the elements of analysis that will come soon. The problem is of great magnitude, so it is important. It is likely to increase with the development of the situation. There are as many situations on the ground as there are existing municipalities and CPAS. These differences give treatment to the facts so different that we cannot let things go without trying to develop a working method and a fine analysis of the situation, although communal autonomy must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u39	We are going back to question 7851.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u40	Mrs Jadin is not here, so I give the floor to Mrs Somers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u41	Madam Minister, it has already been mentioned here in another question: Belgium is traditionally one of the major consumers of antibiotics, with the saddest effect of increasing the number of resistant bacteria for which antibiotic treatment is no longer possible. In 2013 we consumed twice as many antibiotics in our country as in the Netherlands. In recent years there have been systematic actions to reduce the prescription of antibiotics. We have certainly made progress. However, a study by the University of Antwerp in which 68 hospital entities participated shows that the results we book in hospitals vary widely. There are hospitals where only 3% of patients are prescribed antibiotics, but there is also a hospital where 52 percent of patients receive antibiotics. Proper use of antibiotics can not only benefit resistance; it could also save up to EUR 70 million. That is not a small amount in times of budgetary tightness. The Belgian Commission for the Coordination of Antibiotics Policy has drawn up a policy plan that lists specific targets to be achieved by each hospital by 2019. They prescribe the duration and type of antibiotics by therapy or intervention. I would like to hear from you as Minister the following. Will hospitals with very high prescription rates in the field of antibiotics be specifically supervised to reach the targets by 2019? Are the targets as formulated by the Belgian Antibiotic Coordination Committee enforceable? If so, what is the penalty if they are not met? If not, should we not make these targets enforceable in view of the huge variation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u42	Mrs Somers, indeed, a press release from TestAchats asks to publish the indicators related to the use of antibiotics in hospitals. This comes from the project "Quality indicators for hospital hygiene'. I don't think we should compare apples to pears. There is the use of antibiotics that is counted but that has to be compared. There's got to be a denominator, especially about which diseases they're dealing with. You understand that antibiotic use is higher in heavily intensive services or in departments where only patients with pneumonia lie. The use must therefore be compared with the diseases occurring in a section and the nomenclature. That is why I would like to examine the following initiatives, which should contribute in the future to fewer hospital infections. First of all, I am thinking of automation in the form of hand scanners and dispensers surveillance. This can be useful because care workers can then be relieved of permanent training, which can then be avoided and the resources reoriented. I mean really automatic, possibly epidemiological monitoring of microbiological test results and data exchange between institutions. We are also thinking, for example, of the exchange of information between hospitals, residential care centres and rehabilitation centres. As you know, there is quite a patient there, and if a patient gets infected, the population to which he moves will often also be infected. The exchange of information between all these institutions should therefore be encouraged in order to respond more quickly at local and regional level. Another initiative is rapid identification and sensitivity testing to accelerate the initiation of adequate therapy. In addition, sufficient attention should be paid to non-bacterial diseases so that the presence of multi-resistant bacteria is no longer a reason for long-term antibiotic therapy. I am also thinking of targeted campaigns and training which discourage the preventive and simultaneous prescription of multiple antibiotics for longer periods. I would like to point out that these initiatives cannot be implemented in a budget-neutral manner: additional efforts should actually be made to achieve this. So that is another issue: we cannot do this in a budget-neutral way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You are right: if we are to make comparisons, we need to look effectively at the nomenclature, the conditions and the antibiotic prescription behaviour and use associated with it. Of course, many initiatives have already been taken. I have also shown this in my question. We've already made progress. It is, of course, important that we continue to monitor this, given the consequences of the high levels of antibiotic use in Belgium. We must not lose sight of the fact that we are and continue to be large-scale users compared to other countries. However, I am pleased that further initiatives and follow-up remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 7643 will be converted into a written question. The same applies to questions. 7743 by Mrs Jadin and 7818 by Mrs Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u45	Madam President, Minister, the hospital landscape is on the move, we all look at it and are all in it. The increasing degree of efficiency and cost reduction will increase breathing space in the sector. It is a positive evolution, which we welcome. However, optimisation processes take place in different ways and problems may arise. We note that the merger wave at the hospitals in Belgium may pose some potential dangers. For example, new main campuses and bee campuses can now be created, with those campuses physically separated from the main campus, but still have C- and D-beds. Apparently, those campuses don't need a doctor's permanent presence. At least this is what the hospitals themselves claim, and the Health Inspectorate seems to agree. Granted, permanence is not always and everywhere necessary, the type of patients and a reasonable time for the doctor to get there, certainly play with it, but it seems that the presence of C and D beds is nevertheless of a kind that permanent presence is appropriate. Madam Secretary, what is your position? Do you think that campuses with C- and D-beds can fill in this permanence without obligation? Is there not a need for a stricter regulation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u46	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, you raise a legitimate concern. Since the Supplementary Standard Decree of 30 January 1989, the general establishment of hospitals has been planned for each general hospital to have a permanent presence of a doctor. It is an obligation at hospital level which does not distinguish between the different locations of a hospital. So the information you have is correct. However, for reasons of quality and safety of care, I believe that it is appropriate, and nevertheless appropriate, within the responsibility of the hospital manager, to provide permanence for each hospital at each location. This also seems to me to be important in the context of the assessment of due diligence in any liability procedures, if anything happens. It is desirable to further improve the quality of practice, regardless of the setting in which it is carried out. In this context, when proposing future policies, I will also pay due attention to continuity and permanence in the provision of health care. So it's something new that's emerging on the ground, where there are main and side campuses. That is good, and that fits in perfectly with our strategy, but we must never lose sight of the safety of patients and the responsibility to be taken up by a doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I follow you across the board and fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u48	Madam Minister, although the subject is different from Mrs Muylle's question, it is the same problem, in particular the administration of medication. I therefore suspect that the answer will go in the same direction as your reply earlier. However, first of all, I would like to express our appreciation for the fact that you have appointed ADHD experts. That is a very good initiative, which we are very pleased with. We all know that ADHD patients receive too much medication. We come back to the same problem here, in particular that both educators, child counselors and parents assume or expect these children to receive their medication at school or in childcare. By Royal Decree No. 78 can't set up and administer medication right now. In the context of the reform of Royal Decree No. 78 to open the debate completely? The problem of preparing and administering medication is a tricky point, not only in home care but also, as I indicated, in schools. You have said on the issue that you are in favour of subsidiarity, which is very good. After all, if shorter skilled staff can carry out something correctly, it is best to do so at that level. After all, we have too few hands in the care. That is why I have the following question. Will you join the reform of Royal Decree No. Do 78 also pay attention to that thorny point? Will this point also be taken into account by health professionals, care educators and so on? If so, under what conditions will that happen? If not, how should we solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u49	Thank you, Mrs Dedry, for raising a special issue. A budget has indeed been made available for the appointment of experts on the ADHD issue. They will be deployed in the provincial networks set up last year, which are precisely designed to better coordinate the different powers of the different levels. These experts will, among other things, develop a policy that could also streamline the prescribing behaviour of Rilatine and related products. We know that there are considerable differences between the different parts of the country, namely the North and the South, but also the West and the East, in the medical indication, which may be influenced by the way in which teachers or the Centres for Apprenticeship guide children to the first-line doctors and pediatric psychiatrists. Furthermore, in reforming the legislation on the implementation of the health professions, I have also taken into account the problems you have outlined. It examines how certain care activities, which may be entrusted or delegated to non-users or health professionals with a low and manageable risk to health, for whom it would still be illegal to do so. It is a bit of the same problem as that raised by Mrs Muylle. A layman, a mother should be allowed to give it, but not a health practitioner. Of course, there must be a link between these people and appropriate training by doctors or nurses. In any case, there must also be a final responsibility with the professional. I think this is also the case in the reform of Royal Decree No. 78 will be taken. You also argue that this matter exceeds federal jurisdiction. That is an institutional problem, and that is why I refer to the Health and Well-being Protocols concluded in 2014. These agreements were already an important declaration of commitment to clarify the relationship between health professionals and workers in home care, in the field of assistance to disabled people and in recognised childcare. In one of the protocols a university study is ordered, which will address in greater depth the need and possibilities of a flexible task delegation in the sector of people with disabilities. The study is currently being written out and will start in the first half of 2016. Their results are important for the further development of the protocol agreements, which should also be able to respond to the needs of education in the event of enlargement. After all, there are children who are in a care facility, but there are also those who simply go to school. Since the medication must be given several times a day, schools, crèches etc. must be able to deal with it. The aim is to launch the study and, if the results are known, to proceed with the elaboration of the protocol agreements. The rest is included in the drafting of Royal Decree No. 78.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u50	Thank you for your full reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u51	Madam Minister, last year the theme of the World Tobacco Day of the World Health Organisation was the cessation of illicit trade in tobacco products. In this context, Belgium signed the Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products as early as May 2013. Unless I haven't been properly informed, that hasn't been ratified yet. A number of other European countries, including Austria, Spain, Portugal and France, have already done so. My question is actually very simple. Can you tell us whether Belgium will ratify it? If so, when will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u52	Mrs Jiroflée, Belgium has indeed co-signed the international convention to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco, but still has to ratify it. The services are currently working on this dossier in order to obtain ratification. There are currently 13 countries that have ratified the protocol. You mentioned some of them. The Protocol will not enter into force until the minimum number of 40 has been reached. We therefore hope to be able to continue with this as soon as possible. It should also be noted that Articles 15 and 16 of the European Directive 2014/40 on tobacco products also deal with the issue of illicit trade in tobacco products. The Articles establish a system for traceability of tobacco products and safety elements to prevent illicit trafficking. They will enter into force in 2019 for cigarettes and roll tobacco and in 2024 for other tobacco products.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u53	Madam Secretary, I am glad to hear that the services are working on it. However, I'm missing a timing. Do you really have no idea, as a minister, whether this will happen this year? The Treaty dates back to 2013. If not, I would urge you to go after it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u54	I do not have the habit of asking my services with a kalashnikov in the hallway if they want to continue working. I trust them in that. They will continue to do so. The work is not that simple either, and it is not the only work they do. Every time the administration works on something, I get questions about when and how and if I can't speed it up. Well, the governance agreements say it will happen. I work with 14 administrations. I don't know if you can imagine. I have to trust that the officials will continue their work. They're motivated. However, I cannot go around asking when they will be ready and I do not want to ask, because I want to deal with the administration in a polite way. The administration's working on it. I repeat that 13 countries have ratified the protocol. We shall do so as soon as possible. The administration's working on it. The protocol will not enter into force until it has been ratified by 40 countries. I wish it could all be a bit rapper, but in practice it can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u55	Madam Secretary, you will forgive me for having to laugh at that kalashnikov, because I really do not see you standing there in the hallway. In any case, we will continue to follow up the dossier. I think it's important enough to be after it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u56	Madam President, I had already translated this question into a written question well before Christmas, and I have already received an answer. Thank you for that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u57	Madam Secretary, there is a high degree of burn-out among doctors and even higher among young assistants. In 2010, five years ago, the KCE had already warned about this and proposed a number of recommendations and action points. They're in my written question. I won't repeat them here. I would like to know now, five years later, as these numbers of burn-out are still getting out of hand in the media, whether there is any evolution. What recommendations and action points of the KCE report have you maintained and implemented? Is there any improvement in the results of the doctors at five years' time? What initiatives do you want to take, also looking at good practice in Norway, among others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u58	A study was carried out in 2012 at the request of the FPS Public Health and the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, but specifically for the hospital sector. 4 511 employees participated in this study, of which 21 percent were doctors and 79 percent were nurses. Concrete measures were formulated such as the importance of alertness, the handling of role conflicts and emotional stress. In this study, too, the importance of social support by fellow Members of the European Parliament proved important. The study also advocates initiatives and risk management at hospital level. This means feedback and analysis of the registrations, an appropriate personnel policy per risk category and the comfort of the workshop. This also corresponds to the provisions contained in the Welfare Act. Of course, the risk of burn-out also exists in doctors who often have independent status and, depending on different sources, about 10% of the target group affected is affected. The awareness and discussionability of burn-out is already a first step. A study by the KCE 2011 already provided some action points. The fact that every doctor should be coached on time, including medically. Group practices, which is known, pose a lower risk than isolated providers who, because of their continuity obligations, are difficult to say no and are more difficult to maintain a balance between work, family and personal protection, inter alia by taking sufficient rest. In addition to this interpersonal context, policy can thus also contribute to prevention. In all respects, the general practitioner has been greatly revalued in recent years. This leads to greater satisfaction of the general practitioner and to better patient expectations. The policy support measures and the reduction of administrative burdens have an impact. The new generation of medical students once again opt for the general practitioner's programme. You also refer to the doctors in training. These young people must combine in an intense way clinical work, further study and scientific activity with a personal life and starting family life. We are currently rewriting many recognition criteria, with special attention being paid to the training process and guidance. Although the internship master will of course continue to have an important role, we will stress, among other things, an internship team for the training in which each doctor in training will be assigned a coach, a kind of mentor, for the guidance. The doctors-specialists work both in hospitals and in separate clinical practices. In both situations it is necessary to provide support and detection mechanisms. The interprofessional contact, the planning and follow-up of the workload, the space for continuous training during the career and the more flexible career planning should be given due attention. In this context, too, policy can provide a context in which prevention and support in the workplace will take place on an individual basis. As far as nurses are concerned, I have asked the Occupational Diseases Fund to examine whether burn-out and other diseases related to psychosocial risks at work could be recognised as a work-related disease. A work-related illness is, of course, not an occupational disease. Firstly, an occupational disease is a disease which is a determining and direct consequence of occupational activity, which seems to me not to apply in the case of a burn-out, because, as we know, the cause of it is multiple. A burn-out seems to me to be in line with the definition of a work-related disease. There is always a certain link with the professional activity, which means that in a particular profession the exposure to the disease is greater than in the general population. That is what we are talking about, both in the doctors and in the nurses. Secondly, recognition of work-related illness does not lead to compensation, but does allow measures to be taken at the expense of the Occupational Diseases Fund to reduce the risk of the work-related disease. In other words, we are talking about prevention measures. In the case of selfemployed workers, the intention is to set up a system of socio-professional reintegration for them, in line with the example of disabled workers. This requires consultation with the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u59	Madam President, Minister, I welcome the fact that you are opening it up more widely, that you are not just a doctor but are opening it up to nurses. So you are working on it, you are looking at this Fund for Occupational Diseases. Can you tell me when you will have an opinion or make a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u60	That will happen during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the beginning of the year, I wish you all the best in terms of health and wish you the most popular woman in Belgium. Captagon is an amphetamine-based drug used as a stimulant by some fighters, including jihadists, in Syria and Iraq. This drug results in fatigue resistance, increased vigilance and loss of judgment. It gives the impression to the one who consumes it to be almighty. Recently, a very large amount of tablets have been seized in Turkey. Until 2011, the nerve centre of its manufacture was in Lebanon. Since then, production has largely moved to Syria, according to an official of the Lebanese Drug Control Unit. The Captagon would actually be quite simple to make and represents a fairly juicy business. The pills are transported by boat or car from Syria to Lebanon and Jordan and are sold between $5 and $20 a unit or exchanged for weapons. According to figures from the World Customs Organization, the amount of pills seized in the countries of the Arabian Peninsula has increased sharply in recent years: more than 11 tons in 2013 compared to only 4 in 2012. It is recalled that still recently, a Saudi prince was taken in with a series of suitcases filled with Captagon. Madam Minister, can you give us an overview of the location of this drug and its derivatives in Belgium? What is the evolution of the situation? Do we have any concrete figures? What are the health risks? What are the exact effects of Captagon and how is it dangerous for the user and society as a whole? What are the other drugs that come close to it and produce the same kind of effects? Is there a risk of a fashion phenomenon and therefore an increase in consumption in our country? If so, how can we counter this? These Captagon tablets seem pretty easy to make, is it possible that they are produced in our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u62	Mr. Flahaux, the Captagon is older than me! This product was present on the Belgian market from 1960 onwards, in the form of 50 mg tablets. It was available on prescription. Since 2001, the only remaining indication allowed was narcolepsy in adult patients. The risk of serious neurological and cardiovascular side effects was well noted in the package leaflet, as well as the potential for abuse of the fenetylline molecule. The product has not been available on the Belgian market since 2009. The marketing authorisation was withdrawn in 2011. The fenetylline substance is not available as a pharmaceutical feedstock. Captagon keeps the patient awake and produces euphoria, a feeling of hyper-concentration, a decrease in feelings of hunger and fatigue, and a critical loss of judgment. Side effects include myocardial infarction, haemorrhage or intracerebral infarction, psychosis, seizures, compulsive behaviour, and tremor. The occurrence of these side effects increases when the substance is taken at high doses chronically or when injected, which also leads to the risk of infection. Counterfeit tablets exist. They create an additional risk. Fenetylline belongs to the amphetamine class. Such products, such as ecstasy, produce more or less comparable effects. Some of these other substances are on the market as medicines. Since Captagon is no longer available in Belgium, its use is limited to the illegal circuit. I can add that this product is rarely found in Belgium. Rather, they are products like ecstasy that are available on the black market. It is correct that the synthesis of this substance does not pose a particular problem. On the other hand, its production requires specific chemicals that are regulated as precursors of drugs. In addition, during the discovery of illegal amphetamine production laboratories, fenetylline is a rarely found substance. This is due to the fact that the first stage of production is amphetamine synthesis and that, for the illegal circuit, the transformation of amphetamine into fenetyllin has no added value. However, illegal producers are targeting a quick win. Instead of doing two processes, they do only the one towards amphetamine and not the second towards the fenetylline molecule. It is for this reason that the majority of the Middle East Captagon is counterfeit and does not contain fenetylline but amphetamine – which is not without danger. This illegal pharmaceutical production is a real problem. It is well known that in some countries there is a tour for tourists and anyone in demand. You can buy anything: anabolic steroids, amphetamines. The dangers are significant, but these drugs from the illegal circuit are searched for during airport checks. Action is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u63	Madam Minister, as usual, you've been quite disserted. I should have clarified my question by asking whether the other Member States of the European Union still allow Captagon. I shall perhaps ask another question on this subject. Moreover, is it certain that we cannot buy this product on the internet just like Kamagra? When we underestimate the fact that those responsible for certain terrorist attacks are "gave" from Captagon before launching their attacks, it is quite worrying. As with any fashion phenomenon, I think it is necessary to try to inform about the risks and dangers of this product.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u64	Mr Flahaux, customs are very attentive to this problem. Some suspicious packages are detected. The Customs Administration and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) are working together to identify all the molecules that make up these pills. This is how it is known that the product is sold as Captagon when it is not. However, these products are also dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u65	Madam President, Minister, a study by Christian Mutualities shows that 4 917 young people in our country were prescribed antidepressants at least once. It is striking that 130 of them were children of five years of age or younger. It was also found that 1 725 patients were 17-year-olds. These are antidepressants that are actually intended for adults. The medicines are not intended for young people. After all, they give important side effects, such as rebellious behaviour, aggression and suicidal thoughts. According to the Christian Mutualities, there is not even any evidence that every antidepressant also works effectively. The literature reports that there is only evidence for Fluoxetine. The Christian Mutualities also indicate that doctors are easy to prescribe antidepressants. They want to put the emphasis on psychotherapy. The effectiveness of psychotherapy in young people is also not clear in medical literature. There are studies that consider that psychotherapy does work, while other studies deny it. Finally, there is a study that states that psychotherapy only works during the first few months and that after a year there is no effect. Children's psychiatrists, in turn, argue that antidepressants should be used in certain cases, for example in order to prevent problems from getting worse. In essence, antidepressants may have a role to play, albeit in defined situations of severe and chronic depression. In the Netherlands, the general directive is restricted to young people under 18 years of age. If antidepressants are to be prescribed, it is recommended that young people be monitored for the occurrence of suicidal symptoms and other side effects. That is why I have the following questions. Madam Secretary, what is your assessment of the use of antidepressants in almost 5 000 young people? Is there excessive prescription behaviour? Should we tighten up the guidelines for prescribing antidepressants? Are young people prescribed antidepressants adequately monitored for the side effects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u66	Madam President, Minister, my question is based on the same CM figures, but in order to save a little time I will not repeat them. There are indeed different opinions, but most scientists agree that we should be very careful about dealing with antidepressants among young people and that we should at least evolve into a society in which we are doing something to support these families. Madam Secretary, what do you think is necessary to prevent depression in young people as well as excessive medication? You had a few buttons in the law on the reimbursement of psychotherapy. Have you been able to untangle it in the meantime? Where do you stand with that? Currently, a number of health insurance funds pay back from the supplementary insurance a particle of some costs for psychological or psychotherapeutic assistance. This, of course, varies greatly from health insurance fund to health insurance fund. Do you have any recommendations on this matter for the health insurance funds? Finally, the antidepressants that are often expensive and do not always work, but do cause side effects, that is proven. On the basis of the figures currently available, will you issue new guidelines for doctors, on the prescription of antidepressants and, above all, on the treatment of children and young people? What's your opinion on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u67	Madam President, I have also seen the CM figures and put the following figures aside in order to get a more nuanced picture. Based on Farmanet data for the period 2012-2014, the number of children and adolescents prescribed antidepressants remained constant at around 0.5% of all adolescents between 6 and 17 years of age. We can no longer compare it with figures from previous years because the details are no longer available on Farmanet. For example, Minister Onkelinx's psychotherapy orientation note, published in 2010, showed that the number of young people under 18 years of age prescribed antidepressants in 2004 was significantly higher in 2004, 13 800 in 2004 compared to 8 000 in 2014. Since the prevalence of anxiety and depressive symptoms is clearly higher than 0.5 percent, I think we can conclude that, fortunately, antidepressants are not prescribed at all. The Farmanet data from 2012 also shows that approximately half of the daily doses of antidepressants for children were prescribed by the GP, and about two thirds of the children taking antidepressants were prescribed by the GP in 2012. There is a lot of discussion about the added value of antidepressants for children. Some studies show that the benefits of using antidepressants for children do not outweigh their disadvantages, i.e. the side effects are too heavy and too dangerous. In other studies, certain antidepressants are considered effective. Moreover, the relationship between antidepressants and suicidality in young people is unclear. No significant increase in suicide rates has been demonstrated in adolescents taking antidepressants. Further studies should show whether or not antidepressants are a determining factor. Antidepressants are not an official indication for children under 6 years of age. This has to be about absolute exceptions. We cannot rule on the individual cases because the individual medical records should be known, and you know that this is not possible. It is important that the prescription of antidepressants for children and adolescents should be carried out in the context of a multidisciplinary approach, with proper diagnosis first. The advice of a child psychiatrist is therefore essential. This is confirmed by Opinion No. 81/55 of the 2013 Supreme Health Council. An intensive follow-up is also recommended, with regular contacts with parents or other relatives of the child. In view of these reservations, psychoeducation and psychotherapy should be preferred to medication, because it is a very serious problem. The new mental health policy for children and young people is precisely aimed at providing young people with the right care faster and thus reducing the use of medication. After all, medication is often given in anticipation of therapy. You also know that medication sometimes starts to work after six weeks. One then prescribes medication without knowing whether it will be necessary or beneficial. Measures have already been taken. In this context, I am thinking of the intersectoral liaison programme and the consultation, where a total budget of EUR 2.3 million per year is used to provide all kinds of care providers and professionals who come into contact with children and young people with specific knowledge on a particular subject that is part of the problem. I am reluctant to use medication that affects the mental status, especially of children and young people, Mrs. Dedry, and I think you too. We must protect them from this. I'm very worried that so many young people can't think straight through medication that acts on their brains to achieve a balance. I do not rule out that it is sometimes necessary, but I am very concerned about the figures, which is why measures have already been taken on the ground. We will now see if the use of medication is reducing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u68	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you share the concern and that initiatives have already been taken. That's very good. We will have to look at the evolution of this in the coming years. As you said in your reply, data are available but we must follow in detail the consequences and the results of the actions carried out in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u69	Madam Minister, I agree with the remarks made by Mr Somers. However, you did not answer the question of how far you are with the reimbursement of psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u70	I have discussed this extensively in the explanatory statement. We must now make the adjustments for the transposition of the Muylle Act. Then the councils and the like have to work and the recognitions have to be done. The next step is the refund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u71	My question is very brief. At the moment, diabetes patients receive two consultations with a dietician, two consultations with a podologist and four consultations with a diabetes educator. The Diabetes League is working on a new type of diabetes pass. The league wants to switch to four consults that the patient can choose freely. I'm a little worried about this. It could be that this would remove a number of patients from the dietician consultation, which would not be a good idea at all. Dutch and American diabetes associations recommend at least four consultations a year, especially with a dietician, in the case of type 2 diabetes. Madam Secretary, what do you recommend diabetics? What position do you take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u72	Mrs Dedry, you asked your question at a time when you may not know that this was also mentioned in the Medicomut meeting, where we have allocated more resources to patients with type 2 diabetes. Also for patients with type 1, these are measuring devices, more modern pumps and all kinds of new devices, which can determine the necessary insulin dose and also give the doses to patients. For patients with type 2 diabetes, funds have been allocated to prepare a preliminary path. The diabetes pass will be included in this preliminary pathway from the beginning of 2016. Access to dietetics and podology remains unchanged in the early stages, so as it used to be. The preliminary path is really patient-centered: the GP together with the patient determines the goals to be met. So when it comes to a patient who needs to be permanently adjusted for his diet, which is, of course, common, then he will have to go more. If it's someone who has a lot of foot problems, he'll have to go to the podologist more. This model and its flexibility are still being discussed within the organs of the RIZIV. However, I think it is important that we have now made funds available for that preliminary route, to the EUR 10 million if I am not mistaken. We are talking about a large group of people: in our country half a million people are known to have type 2 diabetes. The group that is in the previous stages is, of course, also large. Only yesterday it was approved by the insurance committee. This can now be further developed within the services. I would suggest that you ask a follow-up question about its impact. It's fresh off the press, because the insurance committee only got together yesterday. There it was decided to finance the preliminary path for diabetes, i.e. pre-diabetes. It also includes the diabetes card. Everything in it is taken away, and the follow-up of the patients will be possible in a wide range. That seems to me to be a good thing, because people will be able to be detected and monitored more quickly. In the long term, this will have to reduce the number of complications that occur after years or delay at least a number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u73	Madam Minister, that is certainly a major step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u74	Madam Minister, at the end of April last year I asked you a question about the toxic substances in the food chain following a study by Professor Van Larebeke and the effects of dioxins. There was something to do at the time, because not everyone was on the same page. A new element is the advice of the Supreme Health Council that includes this study. That opinion deals with possible links which need to be further examined. It concerns the relationship between dioxins and carcinogenic aspects. It is also about dioxins, which is new, as hormone disruptors with an increased risk of cancer, diabetes, obesity and infertility. My group has itself tabled a legislative proposal and a resolution on the impact of hormone disrupting substances on our health. Madam Secretary, what initiatives can you take at the moment on hormone disruptors? Will you take any additional initiatives as suggested by the Supreme Health Council? What measures do you take to prevent additional cancers caused by environmental pollution? Will you comment on the interesting recommendations in the report of the Supreme Health Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u75	Indeed, the High Health Council, together with the Scientific Committee of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, concluded that the alarming reports published in the media in April on health effects due to the dioxin crisis of 1999 do not have a sound scientific basis. By the way, it was the same author of the alarming reports in 1999 who now chased everyone into the curtains along another channel. At the same time, the High Health Council recalls that exposure to high levels of dioxins increases the risk of certain cancers and that certain dioxins are currently also considered hormone disrupting. Much is being done to reduce exposure to dioxins, carcinogens and hormone disruptors, but there are different levels of competence and ministers involved. For example, the prevention of pollution is one of the tasks of the Minister for the Environment and her colleagues in the regional governments. The responsibility for cancer prevention and the sensitisation of the population lies with the Länder. The policy on hormone disrupters at federal level is the responsibility of the Ministers for the Environment and Health, but also of the Ministers for Agriculture in the field of food safety. This is a complex dossier which has been under discussion for some time at European level. For example, there is currently no agreement on the definition of what is a hormone disrupter. Our country is also active here. For example, we are represented in the European Chemicals Agency's Expert Group on Hormone Disrupting Substances, which provides scientific advice on the nature of endocrine disrupting chemicals analysed under the European Regulation REACH Biocides. Substances can therefore be identified on a case-by-case basis as endocrine disrupting agents. In the field of food safety, maximum levels for contaminants in food and feed have also been set at European level for substances identified as carcinogenic and of concern for dietary exposure. For example, there are European maximum levels for dioxins and PCBs, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons - PAH, cadmium, etc. There are also action limits for dioxins and PCBs which are lower than the maximum levels and which give rise to studies of possible sources in the environment where they are exceeded. The levels of these substances in the diet are therefore controlled by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. You know that this is one of the cases that arose from the Dioxin Committee which was set up in this Chamber in 1999 and in which Mrs Gerkens also sat. The BFSA is also under the supervision of my colleague responsible for Agriculture. Administrations are trying to play an active role in this. After the dioxin crisis, I think we have put in place a very good system. However, these hormone disruptors were not so well known at the time and there is a need to clarify at European level too, namely what is the definition of a hormone disrupter and when it can be said that it is a hormone disrupter. Work is under way on this. Above all, we must be alert and our controls must continue. If something is detected, then it is also found where the substance is and how it enters the food chain, the traceability is regulated. However, we need to remain alert, including for new substances, we have all learned it with dioxins and PCBs, but there can now also be new substances, for which the same traceability must be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u76	Madam President, Madam Minister, I note that you confirm the opinion of the High Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u77	Madam Secretary, this is a question on a very different subject. In my opinion, we politicians should not judge the way in which people who are in a hopeless situation want to die, with or without interference from others and with or without life-shortening interventions. So I do not share the opinion of the 65 professors who have called for euthanasia to be removed from the law because of unbearable psychological suffering. Our Belgian euthanasia law is envyed by our neighbouring countries. For the time being, therefore, we do not need to change that. We have a mandate to provide a clear legislative framework for healthcare providers and for citizens and patients. At the moment, not the euthanasia law fails, but the lack of clinging, adapted long-term care for those people. We have to bet on that. Both you and I know the very poignant stories from healthcare practice. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. How do you think that, after years of treatment, for some patients with incurable mental illness, there is no longer adequate care available? In what way can we prevent the unbearable psychological suffering rather, so that the demand for euthanasia does not have to be asked? Do you agree with me that proper mental health care with adequate and specifically trained care providers and correct reimbursement is absolutely necessary and urgent, and that we must also do so in close multidisciplinary cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u78	Mrs Dedry, I think it is important to include the general practitioner in psychiatric care, in so far as the patients are regularly in the home situation. A local network with sufficiently well-educated healthcare providers to support these people may also be important. Attention should also be paid to the development of an intervision culture and structure to ensure the quality of care provided. Transmural psychiatric home care can be a suitable tool for this and we take important steps through the article 107 networks and the Networks Children and Youth. Tailor-made care and accessibility are indeed, together with the support of the first line and integrated care, the pillars of the current reform of mental health care, which are realising themselves in the deployment of the networks. The reforms aim to improve the organisation of mental health care and its quality. Mental health care should be based on adequate and specifically trained health care providers and should therefore be knowledge of the end of life that works in a multidisciplinary and transmural framework. Both the first and the second lines are necessary in such an approach, because the risk derivatives are too large to leave such decisions in the hands of one healthcare provider. To this end, appropriate consultation structures and validated evaluation tools should be developed. This question should be submitted to the Federal Evaluation Cell for Palliative Care for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u79	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u80	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I wish you all the best for 2016. Within the framework of the sectoral agreement, it is our responsibility that a supplementary allocation of EUR 50 million would have been granted to the private sector for the implementation of the if-ic programme, a system for classifying specific functions. Minister, do you confirm this information? On the other hand, it appears that if this system is really to be put in place and implemented at the private level, it would take EUR 325 million. Therefore, this EUR 50 million does not seem to be sufficient. On the other hand, I am very pleased with the private sector, but what about the public sector? Will it be allocated a proportional supplementary envelope? If so, how high? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u81	Madam President, Mr Mathot, I can confirm that these EUR 50 million are provided for in the medico-mutualist agreement and that this is a measure to implement the 2013 mini-social agreement for the private sector. Already in 2013, these means had been requested. The basis of the if-ic programme was laid down in the Social Agreement 2000-2005. So it didn't fall out of the sky! Subsequent agreements have consistently referred to the if-ic and the need to continue the work within that body. Already in 2002, 14 years ago, if-ic launched the development of a classification of analytical functions for the private sector in federal health care. The choice was made to work in two phases. First, the classification project was launched. Classification is an instrument for analysing the different functions and dividing them into classes. Secondly, a baraemic structure was developed on the basis of this classification. We are now starting the deployment of this baraemic structure, which obviously has a very high cost. In view of the magnitude of the costs, a phased and targeted deployment of the scales was chosen. A very close collaboration will take place between my strategic unit, the administration and the if-ic office to implement the scales. In this way, we will be able to ensure that the available budget is allocated in accordance with the agreements. Social agreements concerning the public sector do not mention anywhere the classification of functions, or if-ic. I would add that, to date, the public sector has not yet adopted a common position to start research on scales, when this was a priority request from the private sector for years. This is the first step in the whole process of possible deployment of a baremic structure. It is therefore premature to consider the allocation of a deployment budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u82	Thank you for your answer, for the history, for the explanation of the classification. Apart from the fact that you are going to work closely with the private sector to put in place the if-ic, I regret that you have not said anything about the allocation of the balance, i.e. 275 million if my calculator is correct, to achieve it. Secondly, you say that there is no demand for a public social agreement for the establishment of an if-ic standard. Shouldn't we think about having the same status and pattern at the public level? Perhaps it would be an interesting economic path for health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u83	I don't have to ask! In the context of social dialogue, negotiations with trade unions, public sector trade unions were asked what their priorities were, and the private sector was also asked to do so. Some said it was the if-ic. An amount of 50 million was then fixed in the medical-mutualist agreement, i.e. 50 million for a period of two years. We talked about it with the public sector too. First, it was not a priority for him. Secondly, there is no consensus on the direction to be taken. However, I am quite open to talk to all trade unions about any priority. It is up to them to set their priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u84	I'm not talking about priorities, I'm telling you that this could be an interesting project. I would like to see you again to discuss all the hospitals in Liège in the direction of harmonization. If you're ready to open the purse cords, I'll submit a project!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u85	We will do a great exercise not only on the scales but also on the working conditions. This could avoid a lot of problems. But when I see how many years it can take, it may be for my grandchildren. But we'll do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u86	I'm going to introduce a file for the public hospitals in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u87	Mrs. Jadin is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u88	Madam Minister, I am going to be brief in view of the time and many questions that follow. To our great surprise, the study of Christian Mutualities on the placement of 85 000 hip prostheses from 1990 revealed an immense difference in quality between the different hospitals. I'll give you some differences. The risk of revision is three times higher in one hospital than in the other. The risk of a blood transfusion goes from 17 % to 56 %, the number of nursing days from 5 to 24 days. In one hospital, the risk of intensive care is 8% compared with 82% in another hospital. The price at one hospital can be up to five times higher than at the other. Madam Minister, one of the proposals made by the sickness fund is to work with a flat-rate system, an idea that is also taking shape in the new hospital funding. You are undoubtedly aware of the study, as she was delivered to you. Will you do something with this as part of the reform of hospital funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u89	Mrs Muylle, the CM study indeed identified large differences between hospitals for certain parameters. What I do miss, however, is a substructure, the way in which the differences are accounted for. What are the underlying reasons for the differences identified? For example, is the case mix of all the hospitals the same? If one has a hospital specializing in hip prostheses, then of course there will be different numbers of relapses than in another hospital. What about the frame? Is there a link to the operational team, the orthopedic team, or is there a link to the prosthetics used? After all, the squeaking hips were well placed, but the prosthetic material started to show quite quickly metal fatigue. Making the figures available and creating transparency is a good thing in itself, but there must also be a supporting explanation for the findings. Nevertheless, we see that the CM continues and proposes to provide a fixed amount for the placement of a hip prosthesis. In my approach to the reform of hospital funding, I did indeed propose that clusters of low variable care should be provided with uniform and fixed funding per hospitalisation. For example, it is about placing a hip prosthesis in a patient without comorbidity, in reasonably good conditions, which is now increasingly common. They're always putting it in the old days. However, we have made it clear that it is only the low variable care that is involved. Therefore, for a hip prosthesis, it must first be analysed whether the necessary care is sufficiently standardised for the patient group concerned. Which subgroups of hip prosthetic patients are sufficiently homogeneous? This is a first and necessary condition to work with uniform funding, without creating the risk that the most complex patients would be excluded. I also foresee a phased approach to this. In the first instance, we want to identify how much the budget of financial resources, BFM, currently contributes to any intake for a hip prosthesis. The study to unravel the BFM, according to the different pathology groups, is currently under way. Secondly, I would also like to integrate day-to-day hospital funding, where relevant, as well as funding for medicines per hospitalisation. Specifically for the prostheses there was also a question about the cost of the implants, namely whether they can be sufficiently homogenised, without losing quality or comfort for the patient. Finally, as indicated in my plan of action, I would also like to consider in the long term whether the part of the compensation for the practical costs, which is embedded in the fee financing, could be isolated for the reimbursement of the professional input of the doctors concerned. It concerns the surgeon anesthesiologist, diagnostic disciplines and, where appropriate, physiotherapists involved in rehabilitation. In terms of pay supplements, the government agreement is very clear: we are going to abolish the possibility of charging supplements in the double and multi-person rooms, as well as in the double and multi-person rooms for day hospitalization. That point was carried out first. In fact, the issue of pay supplements is one with many other aspects, all of which must be dealt with together. The plan of approach to hospital financing and the review of the nomenclature must first provide financial adjustment. It would be dangerous to do pre-collections and to go for a further reduction of the wage supplements. In the new agreement on medical funds 2016-2017, provisions were included in the same way, with which the partners committed themselves to a thorough analysis of the problem of pay supplements during the duration of the agreement. The RIZIV is currently investigating it. There appear to be enormous differences in hospital pay supplements, also as a result of the warm chest constructions. That goes from 100 % over 400 % to 900 %. There is a huge mess and a skew of these wage supplements. This was also apparent from the CM's analysis: above all, the increase in the personal contribution was in those wage supplements. The study of the knowledge centre is divided into two parts. The first part is about the care landscape itself, the networks, the need assessment and the types of hospitals. This is likely to be completed in the spring. The second part will deal with the instruments to achieve that landscape, i.e. programming and funding. That timetable is set for the first half of 2017. The methodology is established. We work with Milestones and we're on schedule. However, this is worrying and that is why it was included in the medical funds agreement: we want to avoid that, with all this thorough preparatory work in the field, the supplements would explode. That is also my concern after the figures provided by the CM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u90	Madam Minister, you have already partly answered this question about the organisation of the healthcare landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, during the Christmas holidays we all received a brochure from Zorgnet-Icuro, in which we come up with a new concept for the construction of regional hospital networks. A proposal has been made that says from a geographical point of view that every citizen must have equal access to quality care in order to organise care as efficiently and cost-effectively as possible. According to the proposal, within half an hour of driving one should be able to go to a hospital which is fully equipped for a particular treatment. Fourteen areas of care have been defined, where care is organized on the basis of regional hospital networks and the supply is aligned. This also applies to highly specialised care, where the study says that we need to work together across these 14 areas of care, in order to achieve sufficient quality. The great advantages that one sees, and which are also in the exercise that you are making, are that one can achieve efficiency gains within these networks and also have clear benefits in terms of medical expertise. You just referred to the KCE study on reorientation. You said that we can expect the first results in spring 2016. Zorgnet-Icuro made a good exercise. In what way are you going to integrate this study, which is already doing a preliminary study on what the KCE will bring in the spring? Of course, it remains one of your important partners, in the context of hospital funding and landscape reform, in what way are you going to include this exercise in the story?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u91	Mrs. Muylle, there's a lot moving on the property. When I took office, I indicated that we would wake up in a new hospital landscape. They're working on that well. We regularly read about the emergence of new collaborations and networks between hospitals throughout the country. This clinical networking needs a minimum framework so that cooperation and tasks can be fully deployed and a more efficient use of available human and financial resources can be achieved. Also Zorgnet-Icuro has given a very valuable approach. The institution itself carried out the analysis for such a framework. It is now important that other stakeholders share their vision. Her network idea is mostly geographically inspired. Zorgnet-Icuro is based on fixed networks between the hospitals of a given region, which together can offer all care, with only one exception for rare diseases, which fit into a supraregional network. As a legal framework, the organisation chooses the existing concept of the grouping. It therefore makes a number of clear choices. It is important to check whether there is a clear basis for the choices it makes. In other words, the concept must be tested on the ground. In addition, we also want to give a clear scientific basis to the network concept. You are right to refer to the KCE study, of which I will get the results in this area at the beginning of June 2017. In addition, a study is under way on the governance of networks. The completion of that study is planned for the end of 2016. There is, of course, also consultation with the Länder on the subject. This is, of course, done directly with all Cabinets, but also through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It is my personal opinion that it is valuable, when we consider the accessibility of care for the patient, to have at least a large regional component. That's what's called the time it takes to get home to the hospital. We're not going to impose on you to go from a certain place to a certain hospital. I'm not going from here to Hoogstraten to the hospital. It is important that this is not the only component. We must also understand the patient's freedom of choice. There are patients who have a connection with someone. If that's their choice, they can't be banned from going to another hospital. But as far as basic care hospitals are concerned, close to the patient, I think it is right to assume that there is regional cooperation. By the way, most networks are composed of hospitals close to each other. Not always. You know that the hospital landscape in our country is not the same everywhere. In Brussels there are hospitals that are a kilometer or less apart. That is not the case in Luxembourg, nor in West Flanders, I believe. In Aalst, for example, hospitals are close to each other, but this does not make it easier to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u92	In West Flanders we made the exercise with the hospital directories. In this way, we were able to define three regions. Within half an hour, from 80% of the municipalities, each of these regions can be reached via the road network. So I fully agree with you. We don't have cities with a traffic infarct. There is a smooth accessibility. I therefore agree with you that the geographical component does not have to be the only component. There is a lot of movement on the ground, and I agree with you on that. We see that in Flanders the recognition of care programmes is already linked to the cooperation between hospitals. I believe that there are very good elements in this study, but not all of them can be taken or left. You're right to wait for what the KCE will say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u93	It's a little more complex than that, because our hospital landscape has already been formed. We don't start with an empty leaf. We are starting with an existing situation. There's a lot moving around on the property. That's good. This was supposed to grow bottom-up, and that's what's happening. There's never been so much movement on the property as it is now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u94	Madam President, Minister, my two questions on B-FAST were initially merged, but I preferred to separate them because they covered a very different load. On Thursday 10 December, a number of newspapers made the audit of B-FAST firewood from this organisation. Several media had access to the internal audit report on the Belgian intervention team, which was prepared on behalf of the FPS Foreign Affairs. This happened in response to the debacle in Nepal, where B-FAST apparently could not offer much help. According to the newspapers, the audit clearly shows that B-FAST itself as an organisation and interdepartmental cooperation platform is in crisis. The audit lists a long series of important weaknesses and speaks of opaque decision-making, lack of cooperation and tensions between individuals who hinder the proper functioning of the audit. I don't have to explain it to you, B-FAST is an interdepartmental partnership between departments responsible for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Home Affairs, Budget and Development Cooperation and also Public Health, your department. The daily management or secretariat of B-FAST is formally embedded in the structure of the FPS Foreign Affairs. However, coordination of the Rapid Intervention Team on the ground is carried out by the Head of Crisis Management or Disaster Management, which falls within the Department of Health. Most external communication on B-FAST operations is also conducted through the Head of Crisis Management. In addition, the Crisis Management Department is also responsible for supporting urgent medical assistance in the event of domestic disasters provided by the Red Cross. This domestic disaster response recently came into a bad light when the content of our domestic disaster boxes proved inadequate and expired. In response to an earlier question from my colleague Valerie Van Peel during the budget discussions, you said that the major problems with these disaster boxes have now been solved and that the necessary budget has also been made available. That is why I would like to ask the following questions. As Minister for Health, have you also taken note of the aforementioned audit report on B-FAST? If so, what were your initial findings? Is it true that the head of the Department of Crisis Management is embedded in your Department of Health? What specific tasks does the Head of Crisis Management have within the Department of Health? What specific tasks does the Head of Crisis Management have within the framework of B-FAST? In the meantime, have the necessary budgetary resources been released and transferred to the Red Cross, so that the Red Cross can restore the disaster suitcases? How much resources are we talking about exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u95	Mrs Hufkens, I have already answered the question about the disaster suitcases. The budget was there, but was delivered to the Red Cross too late. The cases that are regularly used and are involved in intervention services are, of course, always supplemented. However, there are also a number of suitcases that are supposedly waiting for disaster. They must, of course, be checked every so many times, so that the old cases are replaced by new ones. In the meantime, they are not being used. They're just standing there. Because the Red Cross hadn't gotten the funds fast enough.. only in December, so to speak... it had to wait to renew the suitcases. This has led to problems for two years in a row. This has now been solved by a different, faster way of financing. I have already said that these problems are because of them, but it is right that the question should be asked. The audit report on B-FAST, commissioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was presented to the B-FAST Coordination Council for evaluation and useful follow-up. The result of the audit is what one can expect from an audit, namely a critical analysis of the process which identifies both positive and negative elements and allows further work to be undertaken. Although there is a particular focus on the work areas, positive points have also been raised by the external auditor within the functioning of B-FAST. The audit report will therefore place the positive and negative issues on the table otherwise it would not be audit items and see where there is room for improvement. The audit report, together with some other reports, provides the basis for an internal evaluation of the organisation. The Coordination Council is now examining the various sources and examining where the organisation can and should be improved. Since the exercise has actually only recently started, it is too early to draw conclusions. It was only at the Council of Ministers meeting on 18 December that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a note in which all the majority parties endorsed the right of existence and the multidisciplinary nature of B-FAST. That note needs to be discussed further. As provided for in the Royal Decree establishing the contingency plan for crisis events and situations requiring coordination or management at national level, a crisis coordination unit was set up in each federal administration and entrusted with the coordination of emergency planning and crisis management within the competences of each respective federal government administration. Within the FPS Public Health this crisis cell was managed by the Department of Disaster Management, in turn housed with the chairman of the FPS Public Health. The Department of Disaster Management is responsible for the operational functioning of the crisis cell; the preparation, follow-up and coordination of tasks under national emergency plans relating to the powers of the Public Health Office; the organisation of training, training and exercises with a view to a qualitative state of preparedness. It also acts as a liaison officer for Public Health with the Government's crisis centre. Furthermore, the Department of Disaster Management represents the FPS Public Health in the interdepartmental organisation B-FAST. For example, the Head of Service or an employee attends the meetings of the Planning Committee in preparation for the Coordination Boards. In addition, the department participates in the preparatory working groups and training courses and is responsible for the operational and logistical aspects of the modules under the responsibility of the Department of Public Health. By analogy with the operation of other departments concerned within B-FAST, the Department of Disaster Management takes the organisational direction in the development of its modules. As far as the disaster boxes are concerned, it amounts to about EUR 60 000 for the Red Cross to manage them. For the rest, I gave you the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u96	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The answer to the disaster suitcases is clear. There was confusion because The Red Cross was waiting for that side effect in December. With regard to the audit, I can confirm that there are certainly positive points in it. B-FAST has its merit. There are many volunteers who contribute to this. So that is absolutely important. However, we cannot deny that things are going wrong in the organisation of B-FAST. That's what the audit says. I think we should be vigilant about that. You have listed the duties of the Head of Crisis Management. It is mainly about preparatory work and organisational management. I am glad that you have made this a little concrete, because various sources, such as LinkedIn, show that the Head of Crisis Management sometimes falls within the competence of the Foreign Office and then again under the responsibility of Health. It's all not that clear. It is important that you make a statement on the task package and define it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u97	It's an inter-departmental jurisdiction. When it comes to a disaster in Nepal, it is clear that the Foreign Office is taking the lead. It was also agreed that the communication about that disaster by the State Department would happen. When it comes to a disaster in Belgium, think of the Herald of Free Enterprise, it is a domestic problem and it is a health problem. It is an interdepartmental cell and ad hoc is decided in the meeting who does the communication and which minister takes the lead. For Nepal, that was the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u98	I agree with you, Minister, that there is a difference between domestic and foreign disasters. However, when we look at communication, the head of the Department of Crisis Management is covered by Health. When we look at the communication on foreign disaster response, which is actually a matter for Foreign Affairs, it is often done by the head of the department responsible for health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u99	No, that's not true. That's what the reports say. You should know that every meeting is also covered by a report. What are we gonna send? When are we gonna send that? Do we send snooping dogs or tents? All this is recorded in those meetings, including who will take the communication and the leadership in the action. That is precisely recorded in all the reports. Someone from my cabinet also attends those meetings, because my policy cell also needs to know what is being decided there. That's all in detail in those reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u100	Madam President, the Minister's answer to my previous question brings me seamlessly to this question. Madam Minister, we have already discussed the audit and I would like to return specifically to the operation in Nepal, where there were some difficulties. For example, there was no formal permission to land in Gaza and therefore it was decided to send a slimming reconnaissance team first. In the end, however, the team had to return home early, under the direction of the head of the Department of Crisis Management, which is responsible for Health. There was a second flight. The intention was to pick up injured children from hospitals in Nepal and to house them in Belgian hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u101	Mrs. Hufkens, are you talking about Nepal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u102	Yes. No, I didn't. It's about Gaza. I was distracted for a moment. Excuse me, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u103	I already thought that the data you quoted was not about Nepal, but about Gaza. Nepal is not near Gaza now, as far as my knowledge of geography goes! I almost had heart failure because I couldn't bring your question home.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u104	Yeah, it's about Gaza. You have just spoken about communication in Nepal, and that has confused me. This question is therefore about the operation in Gaza, where there was no permission to land.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u105	Okay, now we're in the same time and space.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u106	There were a lot of difficulties during the operation in Gaza. I do not wish to claim that the first operation failed, but it has been very difficult and has not produced the results initially expected. A second flight was planned to evacuate more children from Gaza, but that flight could not continue because of diplomatic problems with the Egyptian government. Madam Minister, I am asking you these questions, because that action was led by the head of the department and the Crisis Management team, which is why I suspect you know something about it. Can you provide more information on the exact content of this operation? How long has the reconnaissance team been there? Who took part in the scouting squad? What were the results of that operation? How many children were exactly evacuated and admitted to Belgian hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u107	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, I have had to request the information. This is indeed a 2009 Belgian humanitarian action supported by a B-FAST operation. It was an evacuation of injured minors affected by the war violence of the Israeli military operation Cast Lead. This humanitarian action was then approved by the government on a joint proposal from the then Foreign Minister and the Minister for Health, Mrs Onkelinx. The evacuation of minors also took place in close consultation between Health, Foreign Affairs, the Belgian Consulate General in Jerusalem, the Belgian Embassy in Tel Aviv and the Belgian Embassy in Cairo. You can imagine that things were going on diplomatically. The child victims were selected on the spot under the coordination and supervision of the World Health Organisation. They were victims who were in need of specialised Belgian assistance, given the nature and complexity of their injuries. Six children with severe injuries were transferred, selected by WHO, and admitted to Belgian hospitals for further treatment. A multidisciplinary team was responsible both for stabilising the victims and for accommodating the escorts. As you know, when it comes to the evacuation of children, there are always a number of escorts per child being received and supervised here. Usually they are the parents, but sometimes also other family members, when there are no parents anymore. The FPS Public Health, in collaboration with the RIZIV and with the hospitals involved, including the Military Hospital of Neder-over-Heembeek, was involved. The FPS Home Affairs took care of the administrative anchoring through the Foreign Affairs Office, based on its policy responsibility. The Department of Defense carried out the transport by means of a MEDEVAC flight. The FPS Foreign Affairs in cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration vouched for the humanitarian assistance of the escorts and facilitated the return process of the children concerned and their families after treatment. It is not necessary to mention that the operation was complex but highly successful, both at national and international level. Thanks to the rapid employability of B-FAST and the commitment of all the partners involved, Belgium was the first European country to manage injured children from Gaza and provide them with vital care. It was mostly urgent care, including burns as well as gunshot wounds. I don't know where you're getting your information. The reports on this matter are good. You're suggesting that a second flight was never made because of diplomatic problems with the Egyptian government. In any case, from the point of view of the number of children who have been treated here, the operation went well. I don't know what you intend to do with that 2009 data. I'll leave that on your account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u108	Madam Minister, let us be very clear: every child saved there is absolutely a merit. I certainly don't want to deny that. To say that a rescue operation of six children in such a broad conflict area was megage-low is difficult for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u109	It's true, though. The children who were assigned to us were selected by the WHO and were assigned to us because of the nature of the care they needed. Of course, the WHO is not going to transport the children who can be cared for on the spot to Belgium. I do not know what reasoning you have in your head, but there were probably many slightly injured victims and most of them were taken care of on the spot. It was only injuries for which very specialised assistance is actually needed. I know about other surgeries that sometimes involved two kids.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u110	Absolutely, I'm not gonna deny that. I told you, those six children, that is absolutely a great achievement. I have an e-mail here that was sent to the Defence Committee, stating that those who were in charge of B-FAST's project apparently found it very interesting to visit pyramids in Egypt instead of saving children and who wanted the cost of it to be borne by...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u111	Madam President, I do not think we are doing decent parliamentary work here. Mrs Hufkens, you can quote as many emails as you like, but when it comes to insinuations, call it man and horse. Why don't you tell me you're working on a private account with a particular person? I think I know which way you want to go, but I can't retrace mails from 2009 or earlier from DOD. I don't know if you think that's your good work on the Health Committee? That is your right. You determine the quality of your work in the committee itself. I hope you are satisfied with today's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u112	I think it's a little painful that you're starting to accuse me of personal reckonings. That is absolutely not the case. There's been an audit of B-FAST that described a lot of problems. I'm trying to put these problems into practice here. I'd like to name a man and a horse. I'd like to deliver the e-mail later. A lot of things have gone wrong in the past. I think we're gonna have a chance of getting it out of the table. I think that is good parliamentary work, but you clearly have a different opinion on this. You will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u113	If there had been serious problems in 2009, if my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, had not been satisfied with the functioning of one or the other in a crisis cell, she would certainly have taken measures. Honestly, I don't know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u114	Oral questions in committee deal with topical issues. Proposals can always be tabled, but in the context of questions, we cannot always talk again about what has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic304x.u115	We had planned to complete our work at 6.00 p.m. I'm sorry for those who waited for nothing. We have dealt with half of our agenda. The following oral questions will be on the agenda of the meeting on 26 January in the morning.
