ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u1	Question No 13363 by Mr Top is turned into a written question. Mrs Jadin has the floor for her question No. 13557.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, currently, evaluation in the federal public service is an individualized process in which each public servant is defined as a personal objective to be achieved. Its performance is then analysed on the basis of the results obtained and classified on a scale of four levels: "exceptional", "answers expectations", "improvements" and "insufficient". When a worker falls into one of the last two categories, he or she may be subject to financial penalties or, for the least performing, to dismissal. In 2015, only 70 of the 70,742 federal employees in 30 FPS and public agencies received a negative assessment as a result of their individual interview, representing 0.1% of the total federal public service. In this regard, some representative organizations in the sector regret the length and cumbersomeness of evaluation processes in relation to the results achieved and the small number of officials whose poor performance could be effectively highlighted. Minister, can you tell me the number of public servants whose performance is currently being assessed as "to be improved" or "insufficient"? How many federal public servants were dismissed following a double negative assessment in 2015? What about the first half of 2016? Is an adaptation of the evaluation procedure for public officials currently under consideration within your departments? If so, what are the main modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u3	Mr. Chair, Ms.Jadin, I can inform you that the number of federal public servants who received the "insufficient" mark in the 2014 round is 47. This number is 45 for 2015. For 2016, I don't have any data yet because this cycle is not over. For the indication "to be improved", the figures for the last cycles are 344 and 255 respectively. As for the number of civil servants dismissed, I do not have this data. I suggest that you question each administration individually to have this information, since it is they who perform the function of employer. This does not fall within the scope of my powers. With regard to adapting the current evaluation procedure, several avenues have been under consideration since the beginning of this year: the accountability of organisations and evaluators, the development of a feedback culture, motivating agents and promoting their development, simplifying processes and thereby reducing the administrative burden, while at the same time minimising the current rules by limiting, for example, the number of objectives assigned to each staff member assessed. In conclusion, this scope could be extended to trainees. All of this is under study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u4	Minister, in fact, there are two readings of the answer: either we have an extremely efficient administration in that all public servants are excessively qualified and well-assessed – which is gratifying – or the method of assessment needs to be reviewed. I hear that your administration wants to review and adapt it to more specific situations because it is well known that things are changing in the public service. Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 13650 by Mrs Lanjri will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 1365 by Mrs Lanjri. 14780 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 14857 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u6	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, according to statistics collected by the Personnel and Organization FPS Infocentre, as of January 1, 2016, 18,285 federal public servants opted for telework and would travel only one to three days a week to work in the office. It is a real upheaval - they were only 1,790 five years ago - which could nevertheless be explained by the application of the Royal Decree of 2011 facilitating telework in the public service as well as by a real change of mentality at the level of the CPS. They have now put in place a range of measures, such as remote online access to professional documents, to enable civil servants to better manage both their time and their workplace. Your strategic unit has recently put forward several avenues to promote the use of telework in the public service. These include the short-term establishment of satellite offices, allowing workers who would not have the opportunity to work at home to visit offices nearby, with all the technology and comfort necessary for the proper performance of their work. Minister, through the creation of these sixteen satellite offices, how many places do you plan to open? Can you inform me about the location of these different offices? Are other measures being considered within your services to encourage and promote the use of telework by federal public servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u7	Mrs Jadin, please excuse me, there will be part of my answer in Dutch. The Government of the Buildings has launched a specifications for internet provision in the satellite offices as well as to make the centrally unique reservation system ready for use. We expect that at the beginning of 2017 everything will be ready to launch the pilot project. The satellite offices provided are the same as those belonging to the inter-federal satellite office network established in 2011 under the Out of Office project. The most important parameter for the choice of satellite offices was a geographical spread across the territory. At the moment the employees of the FPS Finance can work satellite in about 80 buildings of their own administration. There are 2 200 registered users, 578 of which are active. In order to promote and promote the use of remote work, I plan to raise awareness among civil servants, in particular through a promotional campaign via the civil servants' website and by e-mail. That has already been done. In addition, the user-friendliness of the reservation tool... There will be a reservation tool on the central site which will have to be very accessible and which one should want to use. This simple reservation tool will allow the official to check whether a workplace is available during the desired time. The decision in principle to introduce satellite office work and telework for each organisation shall be taken by the Management Committee. I cannot impose it, being Minister of the Public Service. It is the steering committees that must make the decisions. Authorization to carry out remote work shall be given by the functional head or superior, in consultation with the employee. It is obvious that the cumulation of work, whether telework or work carried out in satellite offices, cannot reach a full-time equivalent. I can confirm that in the meantime, the government has agreed to my royal decree flexwerk. In the latter, the maximum was set at 4/5ths over a period of one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u8	Thank you for all these elements of the answer. Indeed, I consider this project to be very interesting, resolutely forward-looking and hopefully designed for a modern and efficient public administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic524x.u9	All questions were asked.
