ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u1	Minister, my first question will be to strengthen the necessary independence of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. We know that the AFCN has been heavily criticized in recent months and years by various stakeholders for its overdependence on both the nuclear sector and the government. I could mention here both the testimony in White's audit as well as what was said at the turn of the files of the cracked power plants at Tihange 2 and Doel 3, but also during the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants. I still have in mind this statement by the Agency, which acknowledges, in an interview, that "have adapted to political discussions", in particular in terms of the timetable of the work, or the IAEA inspection, usually carried out before the extension, but here accepted as being possible ex post facto. I could also go back to the absence of environmental impact assessments. Looking back at these various events, I would like to ask you whether it would not be healthy if, in the call for nominations for the next Director General, an exclusion clause were mentioned for those who have held leadership positions in our nuclear power plants. More generally, should we not strengthen the capacity of the AFCN itself to carry out studies and inspections in all areas of safety and security, rather than forcing it to rely on studies carried out by operators, thus making it dependent on the information they wish to provide to it? It is known that they often retain some of the useful information, if not all of it. Mr. Chairman, does the minister have an answer to that question and to my question number 15240? Two different answers, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u2	No, I don't! You can ask both of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u3	Mr President, I did not say that, which is why I would ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u4	What is done is no longer to be done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u5	Did you join both for the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u6	Together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u7	That is my second question. Can you explain how the next Director General of the Agency will be recruited? Who decided the procedure? Has this been the subject of unanimity in the decision-making bodies? What is the proposed timetable? What's the jury? What steps have you taken to ensure the full independence of the next Director General? Have you responded to my suggestion that an official who has been in office at the Belgian nuclear power plant cannot apply? What is the place given to the external gaze, to the foreign gaze in this procedure? Do you accept that the function of Director General can be assigned to a Francophone? Can a non-Belgian European candidate apply? We must not take the simple steps that are necessary to ensure that this is the case. I refer here to my last two questions. They seem a little different to me. I hope you can answer all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u8	Mr President, dear colleague, the AFCN is moving towards independent, qualified and multidisciplinary expertise and wishes to establish itself as an integrated, impartial and reliable organisation. In addition, the Agency promotes dialogue based on mutual respect, active listening and dialogue by seeking continuous improvement. I would remind you that the Agency has not acknowledged that it has adapted to political discussions. You used these terms in an exchange of views in the House on December 2, 2015. So more than a year ago. Subsequently, this statement was published in an article based, among other things, on an interview that you had given. As far as the call for applications is concerned, I will respond in a moment. As for the issue of strengthening the capacity of the AFCN to carry out studies itself, the basic principle is that the operator remains the primary safety manager. The role of the safety authority is to independently verify compliance with safety requirements, which is being done by AFCN in pairs with Bel V, with the assistance of national and international experts. As regards the recruitment of the next Director-General, the day-to-day management of the Agency, its representation, its management and the execution of the decisions of the Management Board shall be entrusted to a Director-General appointed, for a term renewable for six years, by the King and by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers. Mr. Bens was appointed by Royal Decree of 5 December 2012. It will reach the legal pension age on April 5, 2018. A successor must therefore be chosen and presented for appointment by royal decree. He or she will take up his or her duties by 1 May 2018. For reasons of continuity, it is proposed that the successor enter into service as of January 1, 2018. He or she will eventually take up his or her duties on a part-time basis, so as to allow a smooth transfer of experience and knowledge of the files, on the understanding that he or she will not truly assume the position of Director General until May 1, 2018. A step-by-step plan has been drawn up. A selection board will first be appointed to assist the board of directors in their search for an ideal candidate, and in the formulation of a nomination proposal, which will be addressed to the appropriate minister of the agency. If everything goes according to the timetable, potential applications for the post of Director General can be analysed by this selection office between March and July of next year. The Agency's Board of Directors hopes to submit a complete file in September to the appropriate Minister. The Minister will then take the necessary steps to ensure that the matter is submitted to the Council of Ministers. The new Director General will be appointed by the King. What is the proposed schedule and what is the composition of the jury? A first selection will be made by the selection board on the basis of a job description prepared by the AFCN. Candidates who have achieved the highest score will be interviewed by the Agency's Board of Directors and by the Minister responsible for AFCN, in preparation for the Council of Ministers, where the matter will be dealt with. What measures are being taken to ensure full independence? The AFCN is an independent organization. The procedure is carried out by the Agency's Management Board. Did you follow up on my suggestion that the function manager in nuclear power plants should not be allowed to apply? The Act does not currently provide for any incompatibility in the performance of this function. What place do we place on foreign ties? The Act provides that the Director General shall be appointed by royal decree. The use of an external selection office should allow for as wide a market survey as possible. The methodology followed by the selection board is intended to guarantee the objectivity of the selection. Do you agree that the function of Director General should be assigned to a Francophone? Section 41 of the AFCN Act states that "the President and the Director General shall have a different linguistic role". The current Chair of the Board of Directors is Francophone. In this regard, we therefore follow the law. To the question whether a non-Belgian European candidate can apply, the answer is yes. As to whether it is necessary to take simpler measures so that this can be done, I answer that it is up to the legislator to take the necessary initiatives. Here are my answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u9	I thank the minister for his answers. I will react at length on both sides. First of all, I would like to highlight what I think is positive about this overlap and gradual entry into office between January 1, 2018 and May 1, during which time the former Director General and the new Director General will work together even if the responsibility is exclusively in the hands of the outgoing Director General. It is a good thing that should become more widespread, namely, the gradual transfer of witnesses between one and the other. As far as the calendar is concerned, I have little to say but to ask you a question. You say the minister will meet with the successful candidates in the first round and the board of directors will do the same. This meeting that you will be organizing will take place after the AC has proposed an even more short list than that of the office or at the same time and in parallel? It is this point which does not seem clear to me: is it first of all the bureau of external studies and consultations which makes a proposal to the AC, which subsequently hears some of them in order to make a choice and propose three? Or do you take and see the same people the office saw?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u10	One of my representatives is a member of the Board and occupies a position as Commissioner of the Government. The GC and my representative are making a nomination. These applications are submitted to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u11	So you won't audition them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u12	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u13	So it's the AC in which you have a representative to audition them. I'm sorry, I misunderstood! On the incompatibility, I'm surprised! Because in a previous discussion, you said that defining these incompatibilities was an option that could be considered. While the law does not provide for this, there is nothing to prevent the call for applications from being more restricted than the law if the GC or the Minister considers it necessary to specify a set of conditions. You were more open at the time! Today, because the law does not provide for it, you do not! You could very well be more restrictive and do the opposite: if the law is restrictive, you obviously cannot open up more widely. But here, I don't understand why you don't follow your first intuition! On the francophone side, this poses a real problem. I hear in your answer that Europeans can apply since non-Belgians can apply, but that French-speaking Belgians could not apply. There's a real problem here!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u14	Europeans must be able to speak Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u15	Francophones must also be able to speak Dutch, on the same level as Europeans of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u16	The Act provides that the Director General and the Chairman of the Board of Directors must have a different language regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u17	Yes, but what if he's an Englishman?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u18	I think he needs to take the exam to be on the Dutch-speaking role. It's theoretical!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u19	Attention, a Francophone can do that too! It can also be considered to be a Dutch-speaking person. Only on his Belgian identity card, he will remain French-speaking. Is French-speaking Belgian at the same stage as other Europeans or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u20	Yes, I think so!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u21	In the end, if he is bilingual of course, if he can speak Dutch there, I fully agree with you - a French - speaking Belgian could also apply. I'm not trying to get you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u22	I understand your question, but I'm in trouble. On the one hand, it is an open candidacy for Europe. So it is said that Francophones can naturally apply, but I do not know how Europeans must prove that they have sufficient knowledge of the language.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u23	If it is a matter of mastery, a Francophone can do the same as a European.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u24	In fact, we are talking about a linguistic role and it has nothing to do with or little to do with knowledge of the language. One can have a Francophone who speaks Dutch perfectly, but he remains in the Francophone linguistic role. How do we control this for Europeans? To be very honest, I don't know. I'll ask you something, but you're right to ask that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u25	I leave this question open. We will come back to that later. I now come back to the answer to my first question. I do not agree with you at all. You tell me that I made a statement in December that the Agency would not be independent. That's not true, Minister! It's not true and it's a chronology problem. The article to which I refer is an article by La Libre Belgique. It is dated 2 October 2015. So you can't say, "That's what you said in December, Mr. Nollet, that the article took over." My comments date from December 2015 and the article dates from October 2015! The article is pre-emptive to me. I have a copy of it. If you want it, I can give it to you, it's on page 30 of La Libre Belgique. Your answer on this part is not on the road! I would also like to ask you to clarify what is happening on this point. For the rest of the answer, I agree with you that it is the operator who, on the front line, must be responsible for its safety. But I believe that, on the basis of what is happening in Belgium at the same time – the letters of the Federal Agency are, to say the least, appealing. We will discuss this again in another question – and what we have also encountered in France (falsification of Areva documents, falsification of documents at EDF), the multiplication of incidents of the same type leads us to say, not only to the environmentalists but also to Mr Chevet, responsible for the ASN, which is the equivalent of the AFCN in France, that we must change the mechanism. It is necessary to change even the philosophical conception of control. We can no longer rely exclusively on the data that the operator wants to give or not. I invite you to do it. I do not continue the exchange on this subject, but I really invite you to do so in the sense that Mr Chevet says here: "One of the lessons to be learned from the recent incidents that have taken place" – he speaks of France, but I am extending his remarks to Belgium – is that we can no longer rely exclusively on the system as it has worked so far". The French Agency, like the Belgian Agency, must be able to carry out types of checks on their own and not be dependent on operators for carrying out certain checks, for example by using external and other laboratories. Nor should they be dependent on the data that the operator wishes to give or not. There are two outstanding items. We'll come back with your collaborator or otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u26	Questions Nos 14499 and 14500 by Mrs Ben Hamou are transformed into written questions and Question No 14721 by Mr Eric Thiébaut. Mrs Fonck asked to be able to put her question No 14732 after a debate in which she took part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u27	Mr President, Minister, we heard that about 4 400 new weapons will be purchased for the police, replacing the UZI machine guns, which are outdated and unreliable. It is good to invest in new, modern weapons. Our policemen must be well equipped to perform their job properly. If we see what weapons criminals use today, we cannot continue to use outdated material. Mr Minister, I have the following questions about this operation. Is there any planning for replacing and investing in material, such as weapons in the police? Why is that? Why is that? If that planning exists, what does it look like in concrete terms? What criteria are used to replace weapons? Will the local areas which are linked to the central purchase itself or in part have to vouch for this purchase or is this financed by the federal government? Are training courses planned for the police to deal with the new weapons? Will the obsolete weapons be stored or what happens with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u28	Mr President, Mr Demon, such planning indeed exists. For each material, a specific planning is made on the basis of the characteristics specific to the material. This is about the lifetime, how often it is used, the cost, the ongoing maintenance contract and so on. It is also about the time needed for the realization of a new public contract. Some are complex, others are simpler. That timing is also included. In the light of various factors, derogations may be made. This will be done in consultation with the units or with the services using the weapons concerned, after consulting the Armaments Committee, after consulting the Integrated Police Coordination Committee and taking account of budgetary resources, i.e. multiannual plans. Specifically for the collective weapon, the UZI machine guns: this weapon was indeed needed to replace. In the past, however, it has been chosen to continue using this weapon. However, the context of the terrorist threat has made the replacement of this weapon acute. This also has to do with the police's demand for a more performant caliber. The choice for one obviously affects the other file, weapon and caliber. This spring, therefore, an opinion was requested from the Armaments Committee on the operational employability of a new collective weapon and of a more appropriate caliber. After also having obtained the opinion of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, it was indeed decided within the police to prepare for the launch of a new market, both for the weapon and for another caliber,.300. The local police will be able to join in on this. This point was also raised during my consultation with the GPI Summit. I have insisted that the issue of collective arms be dealt with as a matter of priority and that it be followed very closely. At present it is too early to talk about numbers, let alone a launch of the market or specific delivery times. The dossier has not yet reached my level, up to the Minister's level, but the September integrated police consultation has highlighted the need to use a new calibre. The federal police are still considering joining the market procedure of a police zone, given the cumbersome and lengthy procedures at federal level. We are now considering whether, as a police area conducting market research, the federal police can join in to have a faster procedure. You asked what criteria are used for the replacement of weapons. Operational deployment and availability are the main criteria for weapons replacement. The state in which the weapons are located and the changes in operational quality play a role in this. In particular, in order to replace the UZI firearms as a collective firearm, the Armed Forces Committee has paid attention to developing a synergy between the shooter, the weapon and his ammunition and the threatened environment. The zones will be able to connect. If a local police zone joins a central government contract, the zone itself will handle the payment; it is therefore fully responsible for the execution of the contract, on the basis of the contract modality in the basic contract. The advantage that they have is that they are in line with a volume purchase and can thus benefit from the better prices. Of course, training is provided. Such training and annual training is provided. For this we refer to the GPI 48 and 81. This includes a habit for the use of the new weapons. You asked what would happen to the obsolete weapons. A handling of obsolete weapons that are no longer suitable for inclusion in the inventory is done as described in the GPI 51. It specifically states that collective or specific weapons must not be sold and that they must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u29	Just to be clear, it's not like those UZI machine guns are all gonna disappear for the local zones and the federal police? Local areas still have to or are they allowed to decide for themselves? It is not because there has been an opinion that, in the context of the threat of terrorism, it is a more dangerous weapon, with which we are difficult to deal with the terrorists, that we are now being told that we are going to replace them all? It's still the zones that will have to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u30	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u31	Isn't it true that all that material in the zones is being replaced?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u32	No, of course that report and the comments also apply to the local areas. It is up to the local authorities to decide whether or not to take this into account and to what extent to take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 14756 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 14769 is also converted into a written question. Mrs Fonck is expected later for her question No. 14773. We have not received any news from Mrs Jadin for her question No. 14777. For the questions put together under item 28 on the agenda, we will wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u34	Mr President, after ten, twenty and thirty years of service, a police officer, as in other administrations, is entitled to an award in one of the national knighthoods: the Order of Leopold, the Order of the Crown and the Order of Leopold II. A chancery was created in 2007 to manage and coordinate the award of honorable awards for the entire integrated police force. I asked you last year about a state of affairs of these honorable awards. At that time, you announced that the 2001 awards had been almost completed and that the 2002 and 2003 dossiers were in a final phase. The 2004 and 2005 dossiers had then been opened and were awaiting the award. We get some questions about it here and there. Hence my follow-up questions. Firstly, what is the state of play in the processing and elaboration of honorable awards to policemen? Secondly, since the start-up, how many employees have been assigned to the chancery for managing the honorable awards for the integrated police? I would have liked to have had a small overview of the number of full-time and half-time staff per year from 2007 until now. Thirdly, do you have any alternatives to hand out these awards to police officers more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u35	Mr Demon, I am going to email you a summary table, including for the report, of the handling of files. Since 2009, more than fifteen thousand files have been dealt with. In the summary table you will find the details. Last month, from the federal police department involved, that's the chancery within the federal police department, a series of draft KBs for over a thousand awards were transferred to the Department of Home Affairs. In concrete terms, this means that another thousand certificates can be awarded to the staff concerned. In recent years, the chancery of the federal police has indeed been affected by numerous changes in staff and interruptions in the occupation. As a result, there has always been a loss of know-how and continuity. However, it has managed to deploy a limited number of A, B and C level staff for this task. In concrete terms, this means: four consecutive levels of Abbreviation half-time, from March 2008 to February 2011, from February 2011 to May 2014, from September 2014 to November 2015 and from November 2015. These presences have been interrupted several times by absences due to pregnancy or illness. Then there will be four consecutive levels of full-time debt securities, from June 2009 to October 2012, from October 2012 to September 2014, from October 2014 to July 2015 and now from November 2015. Also here there were interruptions due to absences. A half-time level C has also been available since November 2015. If you look at this, a half-time level A, a full-time level B and a half-time level C will be available from November 2015. Since the optimisation of the federal police in November 2015, chancery has been integrated into a larger entity. In concrete terms, this means that two FTEs, as I have just said, are still being made available for this: half a level A, a full level B and half a level C. However, the persons designated for it will be more flexible. For example, a system of backup and replacement is possible. This means that we have that potential all the time. Since then, people have been able to start again finishing pending files and they will soon be able to start new movements. What do we mean by new moves? That, in agreement with the King twice a year, in April and November, honorable awards are awarded and that the records will be completed from the administration. It's doubling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u36	Of course, I'll wait and see until I see the list. I am told that the bourgeois honour signs for 25 and 35 years have not even been issued or written out. I'm gonna take a look at it with the numbers. I think it's important to respect those policemen. That needs to be monitored. I would appreciate it if you could send a signal from your cabinet to make a catch-up and thus keep a sharp eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u37	Minister, WhatsApp neighbourhood prevention groups are seen as the citizens' initiative of the future and as a replacement for a BIN. The idea comes across from the Netherlands, where there are already more than 5,000 groups. The popular app is the ideal way to quickly communicate with neighbors about suspicious situations in the neighborhood. Dutch research shows that the information exchange via the popular app reduced the number of home invasions to almost 50%. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. How many WhatsApp neighbourhood prevention groups are already active in our country? What police zones are they operating in? Are these groups always involved with local police? Are there any results in the police areas using such a WhatsApp group? If so, which one? Since the creation of WhatsApp neighbourhood prevention groups, have you noticed a decrease in the number of BINs in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u38	Mr Demon, I cannot give you an answer to your question about WhatsApp neighbourhood prevention groups, as my administration does not have this information. These are initiatives that are set up independently of the existing regulations at federal level on the BIN debt instruments and on which my administration as such has no idea. Currently, in the context of prevention and citizen participation, a number of partners are working together to draw up guidelines on the use of social media, including WhatsApp in the neighbourhood information networks. New BINS are still being set up, which means that there is no decrease. However, it is currently impossible for my administration to comment on whether or not the creation of WhatsApp neighbourhood prevention groups has an impact on the number of new BINFRAs, as this requires new scientific research. BIN isn't gonna disappear. WhatsApp is just a communication tool that can enhance and improve communication within a BIN. Nor can I give you any answers from the police, since that information is not centrally available. I can tell you that within the setting of the phone number 112 apps a special module will be developed for BIN. This is not about WhatsApp, but about an app that we develop in the context of the number 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u39	Minister, WhatsApp offers a faster way in terms of everything that is social media. It is therefore recommended to investigate how many users of WhatsApp are there and then perhaps develop a campaign. If the Netherlands shows that the system is working properly, it might be a project in which we can put our teeth into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u40	Mr Maingain is not present for his question No. 15016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I am going back to a matter that we have been dealing with for several weeks now. You don't have to do all the retroacts here again, you know them like I do. On the other hand, it seems to me necessary to take stock of developments and of the many questions that remain unanswered. During our last exchange, you informed me of the results of surveys that have updated a weakly compacted area, and therefore really disturbing, between 6 and 7 meters of depth. Can you tell me if this area under Building W already existed at the time of construction of the other buildings, or if it has been gradually formed? Since when is this less compact layer taken into account in seismic resistance calculations? Was she from the beginning? Was it more recently? Since when? Can you guarantee that, following the work and before any possible restart, Tihange 1 will still resist at least as much earthquake as was the case before the work? Can you, in fact, assure me that there is no hindrance in this matter? Do you confirm the information given provisionally on 9 November, which pointed to the origin of the damage "among other things" by inadequate phasing of the work? Do you now have more details? Do you have any other analysis of the origins of the problem? I was also informed that, at the end of November, new problems were discovered during the work. I assume you'll take stock of the situation. Do you confirm that it was the subcontracting company that failed to comply with the planned phase? Could you confirm that several Portuguese workers have worked on the site? Has a possible language problem been able to play a role in the at least problematic situation we are encountering? In your last answer, you also referred to the equipment that has been dismantled and that, if necessary, will have to be rebooted. Can you tell me exactly what equipment it is and what was their type of damage? The last question in the text that I have forwarded to you was whether, in your view, a revival by 31 December was possible. But, by chance, that date was changed yesterday, in other words, the day before our exchange in Parliament. This date is therefore, today, postponed to February 15, 2017. Remember that we had experienced the opposite in our previous exchange, since it was after your answer, the next day or the next day, that they had changed the date of the restart. In short, they feel attentive to what we are exchanging here in Parliament, and that is so much better. Nevertheless, I restate the question by adjusting it on the basis of this latest information. Minister, do you think that a revival on February 15 is possible in view of everything that still needs to be done before the AFCN will eventually issue its green light? I am not saying that this must be revived at that time, but is this theoretically possible? Is it repairable in such a short time? To be very precise, minister, I am told that there are 2.5 cm cracks on the ground all along. In places, the ground is 15 cm high, especially at the point W301. The cement has moved, etc. I guess you got some pictures of the situation delivered. In short, I want to have your feelings about both the situation and the date of February 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u42	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the less compacted area between 6 and 7 metres deep under the building, whose floor slab is damaged, is the result of the ground installation work, which is the backfilling work carried out during the construction of the building concerned. This area has therefore existed since the installation was put into operation. The lack of impact of this less compacted area on the seismic resistance calculations of the building concerned is being assessed. In addition, soil reinforcement under this building is provided through low-pressure micro-pious injections. The operator must ensure that, prior to any possible restart, Tihange 1 will withstand at least as much earthquake as was the case before the work. There will be no setbacks in this area. AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V follow the subject very closely and have laid down requirements as to the conditions under which Tihange 1 could start. These conditions include, but are not limited to, the demonstration of earthquake handling. We confirm that inadequate phasing of jet grouting activities is one of the factors causing the observed damage. We confirm that the subcontractor in charge of the execution of the grouting jet work used a phase for which the operator has made reservations. The AFCN cannot confirm or invalidate the presence of Portuguese workers on this particular site. The situation is not a language problem. In addition, in the event of the presence of non-French-speaking workers on a site, it is the operator's responsibility to ensure a proper flow of communication with its subcontractors. The turbopump, providing emergency food water when needed, was dismantled and returned to the factory for testing. The test results are positive and the pump is ready to be raised. The date of 31 December is purely indicative. No relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the safety authority, so AFCN and Bel V. All safety demonstrations will be examined before the green light for a restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u43	Minister, without exaggerating, the situation is more serious than you are told. You don't tell me if you've seen pictures of the situation, if you've seen what's going on in practice. We have had the opportunity to proceed in this way on other matters: you are a man on the ground. So I want to challenge you: we could go together on the spot. We could make an appointment to really look at the situation. Would you be willing to come with me? Would you be willing to let us go, not necessarily long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u44	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u45	I think that would be a very good idea. I didn't go there, but what I'm told about the pump is that the brackets moved 8 cm. The pump is not damaged, so much the better, we can put it back on. But the slab rose 15 cm in places and had 2.5 cm cracks. And our interlocutors keep walking around. Your answer refers to 31 December because it was carried out on the basis of my question. Now it's updated to February 15. I guess you're not going back on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u46	It's always the same course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u47	I thought so. That's because your answer is still about December 31, but since then the date has been moved. On the side of the line of action, one point that interests me positively in your response, linked to our exchanges, is when you say that you will make no headway in relation to the stability situation, including the seismic risk, as it existed before. It is not unrelated to the fact that the date is constantly postponed. It's not won, but we'll go see where it is. I would also like to thank you for confirming that the problem is related to subcontractors, in any case for phase. But you say that phasing is "one" of the elements that caused concern. You don't mention the other elements. Could you complete your answer? Regarding the presence of Portuguese workers, you say that the AFCN cannot confirm or invalidate. But who can do it? So you're a minister? It's a problem that I'm aware of. We will go there and ask the questions we need to have a clear heart. Again, I'm telling you that it's not about being for or against nuclear power. It's a matter of security. The debate for or against nuclear power is with Mrs Marghem. It's not with you. With you I address safety and security issues, as from the beginning. Finally, I see that we are still studying the consequences. The impact assessment is under way. I'm in doubt, but I'm taking the leap. We'll go check on the spot. Maybe I'll have less after the visit. We'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u48	Mr President, Minister, beyond the question of the situation of Tihange 1 plant at the end of the day, I would like you to be able to give us an overview of the entire basement of the site. Surveys similar to those that have updated a weakly compacted area and therefore really disturbing, between six and seven metres deep under the W building in Tihange 1, were also carried out under the other buildings and power plants of the site. If so, what are the problems of these surveys and what guarantees can you give that the situation is not problematic throughout the site? If not, when will they be? Can you state unequivocally that what has been discovered in the basement does not in any way call into question the ability of the Tihange power plants to withstand an earthquake? If the slab of a building has risen, is there any assurance that the foundations in themselves of the different plants and of the different reactors and buildings are not affected and that some or all of the building is not weakened? Is there not a comprehensive stability study this time - and not only on this building discussed in the previous question - that would have been conducted beyond the simple surveys of the entire Tihange site, in geological terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u49	Mr Nollet, the methods of laying the ground (filling) used in the construction of the Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 units are different from those used for Tihange 1. Moreover, the various surveys carried out on the other units of the site for several years as part of construction work did not reveal any anomalies. As I have already said, in addition to the previous elements, one of the starting conditions of Tihange 1 imposed by AFCN and Bel V is the demonstration of the stability of Tihange 1 structures. I confirm my earlier answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u50	Mr Minister, on this basis, you confirm that the filling at the Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 sites is different and that, therefore, there is no need for a comprehensive stability study. It's followed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u51	Because several surveys were conducted during other constructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u52	As far as the question about Tihange 1 is concerned, what I have to say at the time of the construction of the embankments at the origin of the construction is really challenging. I am told of waste from a smelter in Verviers, waste that over time would take water and rust, no longer ensuring sufficient stability when other elements are to be dug, such as the placement of piles. We'll see on the spot, but I'll give you the details I have for Tihange 1. There is rusty smelter waste that prevents piles from being installed in the ground. We'll talk about it when we get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I would like to come back with you to the situation of leaks in swimming pools containing spent fuel from our nuclear power plants. In response to my oral question no. 14344 turned into a written question, you were replying that the leak from the Tihange 1 pool increased in February 2016 to 8 liters per hour! We would have increased from 2 litres per day in 2012 to 6 litres per day in 2015 and to 192 litres per day in February 2016! Can you first tell me exactly what pool it is? Is this the large storage pool or a Tihange 1 stabilization pool? You also told me that further measurements were made in April 2016. Can you give me the results of these April measurements, as well as any measurements that may have been made since then, through the more precise draft measures that you mentioned in your reply? What were the maximum leakage measurements per hour? What is the mean and median measurement of leakage? Don't you think that this impressive increase in the scale of the leak is an issue for you? By the way, I would also like to know whether any link is excluded between these leaks and the recent or old situation in the basement of the Tihange plant or whether the studies under way following the problem of poorly phased concrete construction still have to deliver their results with regard to swimming pools, whether they are storage or transfer. Could you also give me the figures of the extent of the leaks from the Tihange 2 and 3 transfer compartments? I understand that the situation here is not getting worse, but I would like to know the extent of it. Finally, anything else, can you tell me what capacity the storage pool can still accommodate? Is there a project to build a new storage pool and is it intended to accommodate all the waste, including those currently stored in the existing pool or will the new capacity not be used to accommodate those currently stored in the existing pool in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u54	Mr Nollet, with regard to the Tihange 1 storage pool, the leak temporarily increased in February 2016 to 8 litres per hour, or 192 litres per day. The probable cause is the decrease in pool water temperature. Indeed, the leak increases when the temperature of the pool falls below 20°C. The operator maintains this temperature between 28 and 30°C. Currently, the leak is 0.023 litres per hour, i.e. half a litre per day. This leak does not pose a safety problem because it is fully harvested in the system for this purpose and is treated as liquid radioactive waste. On the other hand, AFCN confirms that there is no link between the pool leak and the Tihange 1 soil problem. As already answered, for Tihange 2 and 3, there is no permanent leak in operation for storage pools. These pools still have storage capacity until around 2022. A project is underway at the operator to increase storage capacity via dry containers for Doel and Tihange sites. No new swimming pool is envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u55	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As the outside temperature is lower in winter, it is quite logical that the leakage is less. As you say, it's related to temperatures. My concern was what was the maximum leak. You say today is half a liter a day, but what are the maximum leaks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u56	The leak temporarily increased in February 2016, to around 8 litres per hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u57	Is that the maximum recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u59	You said there were no leaks in the pools in Tihange 2 and 3, but I wanted to know what was in the transfer compartments. There are, even if they are recovered, I agree. I asked what their magnitude was.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u60	I don't have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u61	Your collaborator will only have to point out this aspect and communicate the information to us, as we sometimes do. As for the new project, you say that there are capacities until 2022 and that it is no longer swimming pools that will be built. The pool will continue to exist or will we transfer everything to those containers you're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u62	For the moment, there are no plans to replace swimming pools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u63	It's only for the extra capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u64	But I guess after experimenting with the containers, the possibility can be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u65	But for now, that's not the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u66	For now, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u68	Mrs Temmerman, you have a combined question No. 14831 with Mrs Fonck, but we do not know when she will come right. However, you also have a combined question with Mr Nollet. If you'd like, we can start with that last question. After all, you're both present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u69	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the flexibility you have shown in the order of questions to be asked. That is not the case with all ministers. Mr Minister, according to the reports in Germany, there is once again a question of the safety of Belgian nuclear power stations Goal and Tihange. Questions will undoubtedly continue to be asked about this, but here we are dealing in particular with the current cooling technology. Due to the fragile state of the reactor walls, the cooling water held on standby for an emergency in Objectives 1, 2 and 3 would be preheated. This practice would be necessary to avoid an abrupt temperature difference in the reactor when cooling water should be used. Too large a temperature difference could lead to a damaging meltdown. As far as Objective 1 and Objective 2 are concerned, this technique would have been used since the beginning of the 1990s, and it is precisely on this point that the alarm bell is being drawn in Germany. Can you confirm or deny the accuracy of this message? Is it true that this procedure is common in all Belgian nuclear power plants? If not, in which is it and in which is it not? Is this procedure also common in foreign nuclear power plants? To what extent do you consider the procedure used to demonstrate the fragile state of the reactor vessels? How sure are we that the reactor vessels will remain at the cooling water temperature used? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u70	Minister, we know that because of the thousands of cracks in the Doel 3 tank, the cooling water required for an emergency response must always be preheated. The WDR news channel has recently indicated that it is in possession of documents that enable it to state that Doel 1 and 2 also require preheating of their cooling water. What exactly is the situation? Do you confirm this information? If so, how long has this measure been applicable and, above all, why has it been necessary to do so? I would like to take advantage of this question to make a complete topo of the situation. How many nuclear power plants in Europe use this technique? Finally, can you tell me, for each of our seven plants using this technique, at what temperature is this cooling water?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, keeping the cooling water of the Objective 3 safety injection circuit at its temperature is no secret. This is stated in the Safety Case for the reboot of Target 3 of 2015. So I can tell you that I am indeed aware of this. Cooling water from this safety injection circuit is used in accidents that require a refill of the primary circuit, such as large leaks or sudden cooling that reduce water volume. When this cold water is injected into the reactor's primary circuit and thus into its tank, it causes thermal shock. However, its impact varies depending on the temperature of the refrigerant. As part of the Safety Case for Doel 3, the preheating of cooling water reaches a temperature between 41 and 49°C, thus providing an additional safety margin. This temperature has been calculated to ensure that the refrigerant function is sufficiently guaranteed in the event of an accident, while providing a margin of safety complementary to the thermal shock inflicted on the tank. For Objectives 1 and 2, a similar procedure applies, whereby the temperature of the injection cooling water must be maintained between 34 and 40°C. This is a compensatory measure introduced in the early 1990s following an in-depth and conservative accident study. This accident study was started as a result of the new insights discovered in the United States in the mid-1980s about the thermal shocks on the reactor vessel. In the end, a hardware modification was carried out, so that the cold water was not sprayed directly on the cockpit. Warming up the water remained as an additional safety margin. Apart from Doel 1, 2 and 3, this procedure is not used anywhere else in Belgium. Only the maximum water temperature of the safety injection circuit is capped to ensure sufficient cooling in the event of an accident. On the other hand, the procedure is applied abroad, particularly in France and the United States. This practice is well known to lighten the mechanical load exerted by a thermal shock on the tank. The absolute values of these temperatures are not directly representative of the state of fray of the cockpit. This value also depends on the specific design of the safety injection system itself and on the specific rules applicable to safety analyses in other countries. There is therefore no question of comparing the number of countries or reactors using this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u72	Mr. Secretary, I'm not a technician, so I can't judge that. What worries me, however, is that in Germany it is felt that this is a very dangerous practice. You say that France and the United States also apply this technique, but I suppose it is not there in all power stations, but only in the like ones. If we do not apply this technique here in the other nuclear power stations, but only in Objectives 1, 2 and 3, I wonder whether, in view of the safety margin, we should not consider whether other techniques could be used instead of this technique.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u73	Minister, this is not a good thing to reassure. Initially, these plants do not require preheating for the coolant. It is because of the problems that have been identified that we need to be able to intervene. This is special because, for Doel 3, the problem is clearly identified, linked to micro-cracks. But, for Doel 1 and Doel 2, what is the origin? Why should we preheat? It's a big question mark for me. You are saying that, for Doel 4, this is not the case, that there is no other power plant. Doel 1 and Doel 2 are older than Doel 3. Doel 3 has micro-cracks. Doel 1 and Doel 2 are to be connected with Tihange 1, but the latter must not be preheated. I don't understand why. On the other hand, we know that the limit of preheating, established by law, is 50 degrees. When, at Doel 3, we go to a maximum of 49 degrees, we are very close to the limit. And even at Doel 1 and Doel 2, we go up to 40 degrees. Beyond that, it creates other problems. This information, which you confirm, is therefore public and non-secret. I hope so! But, in addition, they are not there to reassure, even if they are confirmed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u74	Mr President, Minister, I would like to appeal to you in response to the Royal Order of 30 August 2016 amending the terms and conditions for the selection of the emergency zone commander. Since the entry into force of this Order, the conditions for applying for the position of Commander are: to have useful experience in an operational function within civil security and to have a minimum of five years in a management function; to have at least the rank of Captain. This means that, unlike other officers, the commanding officer must no longer hold an A-level diploma. This is the only administration in which the person in charge does not need such a diploma. Why did you consider it useful to no longer require a Level A degree for the commanding officer position, whereas to be recruited as an officer, it is mandatory? Furthermore, could you explain to me what the term "management function" which seems blurred corresponds to? Finally, do you not think that entrusting the validation of Level A competencies to an external selection office could jeopardize the candidate's assurance of impartiality and quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u75	Mr President, Mr Delannois, the amending royal decree was adopted on 30 August 2016. It appeared in the Moniteur belge on 20 September 2016 and entered into force on 30 September. The relief zones that currently have an operating zone commander (7 French-speaking and 6 Dutch-speaking areas) can now make final selection on the basis of the new rules. Some have already published the call for applications. The new requirements for candidates have evolved in the course of the various prior consultations and resulted in a text which was the subject of a memorandum of understanding at the end of trade union negotiations. The position of zone commander is now open to all officers, professional firefighters and volunteers, from the rank of captain, with useful experience in an operational function and experience of at least 5 years in a management function. As you point out, the level A diploma is actually required to be recruited into the rank of captain. However, in order to be able to apply as zone commander, one must have at least the rank of captain. It is true that some captains, for example those who have been promoted, do not hold a Level A degree. However, it may be considered discriminatory to exclude these officers ex officio for the sole reason that they do not hold such a degree. A priori, two persons of the same grade enjoy the same qualifications. Contrary to what you seem to fear, the organisation of an external eliminatory management and management test consisting of tests equivalent to those required for an A-level agent is precisely an additional guarantee that the successful candidate has the necessary managerial qualities. As for the experience required in a management function, it may have been acquired in a non-operational function, for example, for a volunteer officer, as part of his main activity. When asked about the removal of the level A degree requirement and the emphasis on skills and experience acquired, the Minister of the Public Service expressed support for a project that was fully consistent with the government agreement. Indeed, in Article 8.1.3 of the Government Agreement, it is announced that alongside the requirement of diplomas, skills acquired elsewhere or previously will be more recognized and better valued even automatically if possible. I think for people who start, leave school or university, a degree is important. This also applies to specialized professions: doctors, lawyers. But I'm not for the college graduation fetish. I'll give you an example that I know very well. Me! I graduated from university with a bachelor's degree in computer science in 1984. Today, with my degree, I could manage, in the public service, a department of computer science. I don't know anything about modern IT. I can master and estimate what's going on, but my computer skills at a master's level have completely disappeared. My conviction is that we must not be a fetishist of diplomas. We need to talk about skills. We can develop skills to reach a university level. There are people without a degree in computer science who have much more skills in this area than people who have graduated "since the time when animals were still talking". I do. What guarantees do you have when someone has a university degree? I know of cases of zone commanders who could not be appointed zone chief because they did not have a university degree. If they had studied the history or history of art at university, they could have been appointed. I find this unfair because a person who has worked a lot and accumulated experience and skills and has taken courses must be valued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u76	I don't know if I agree, but I can understand the background and I assure you: I'm not a fetishist. This is sometimes the problem of case by case. It is always difficult to make laws and regulations that resolve the issue on a case-by-case basis. There is, I suppose, a way to find counter-examples as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u77	Many companies do just that: mastering skills. If we don't describe the degree, but the skills for a certain level or function, I think it's much more useful than the evidence of having a university degree. That can reassure you. But I find it unfair that if you don't have that little piece of paper I don't know how many years ago, you can't even be a candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u78	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I would like to ask you about the recruitment of NCOs in emergency areas. In an intervention, the NCO is the Chief Executive Officer on the scene. He must de facto be a firefighter of great operational experience. The main problem is this lack of operational experience, which is essential for a non-commissioned officer who is the chief of departure in an autopompist and who is responsible, among other things, for ensuring the safety of his teams in the face of a fire. The non-commissioned officer does not act in the strategy of the intervention; he acts in the concrete realization of acts. The decision whether to enter further or leave a burning room is the responsibility of the non-commissioned officer who manages his binomies who attack the fire. Recruitment to the rank of sergeant is therefore not recommended. This would create dangerous situations, as the latter will have a severe lack of experience on the ground and will not be in the best conditions to perform tasks requiring a high degree of responsibility. Minister, do you find, in view of what I have put forward as arguments that come directly from the field, that recruiting the rank of sergeant is relevant? Is there not a risk to the safety of firefighters on site during an intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u79	Mr President, Mr Delannois, recruitment to the rank of sergeant for level B graduates is indeed included in a draft royal decree which is currently the subject of extensive informal prior consultation with the Unions of Cities and Municipalities, fire brigades, voluntary fire brigades and trade unions. First, it should be noted that many relief areas lack NCOs in order to be able to comply with the rules on adequate means. In addition, it is important to make the firefighter's career attractive for Level B graduates, who cannot apply for recruitment as an officer, which is reserved for Level A graduates. The objective here is to attract new talent to the operational services of the rescue areas. It should also be noted that the relief areas will remain free to make use of this possibility, since, when a sergeant's job is vacant, it is the area which will decide to fill it either by internal promotion or by mobility with or without promotion, or by professionalization of a volunteer firefighter in the same rank or by recruitment. Finally, with respect to your concerns about operational experience, I can tell you that the intern sergeant will have to complete a minimum 12-month operational internship after obtaining the various regulatory certificates. Throughout the course, the trainee will be accompanied and evaluated by a trainee master who will prepare interim reports every three months. The traineeship may also, if necessary, be extended twice by a period of six months. The operational internship, which I would remind you will have to be carried out after obtaining the regulatory patents, may last up to 24 months. This seems sufficient to enable the trainees to gain the appropriate operational experience and the traineeship teachers to train them, accompany them and evaluate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u80	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. I understand that, in any case, internal promotion is still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, on September 6, 2012, during periodic audits, it was found that the capacity of the water table providing a Tihange 2 emergency water source could no longer be guaranteed in accordance with the requirements. At the time, this anomaly was classified at level 1 of the INES scale and compensatory measures were taken to reduce the consumption of table water and to compensate for its lower capacity using other sources of supply. I'd like to know what has happened since then. How long have compensatory measures been required? When did the situation return to normal? What compensatory measure is still in place today? Has the problem continued to exist or to reoccur? Had it been necessary to maintain or reinstate the measures taken to compensate for this problem since 2012? When? What is the current situation? Can you tell me in full whether this problem has been encountered on one of our other 6 plants and if so which one or what period(s) and what the compensatory measures were?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u82	Mr Nollet, as announced in the AFCN message of September 14, 2012, a daily overconsumption of groundwater could explain why the capacity of the groundwater could no longer be guaranteed for the Tihange 2 power plant. This water table was in fact operated by Electrabel as a source of water for various normal plant applications, e.g. for demineralized water and supplementary water to the fire water system. Based on the measurements of the water level and history, Electrabel argues that the main cause of the lowering of the table is continuous overexploitation. To solve the problem, Electrabel has put in place measures to reduce this water consumption from the water table and to increase the performance of the Tihange 2 well pumps by replacing them with pumps whose suction stops at a lower level. Resupply of Tihange 2 water wells from Tihange 3 wells has also been planned. In April 2013, the commissioning of the Meuse water filtration unit ended the structural exploitation of table water to produce demineralized water. The level of the tablecloth then began to rise. In March 2014, a 3D model of simulation of the evolution of table water levels during pumping allowed the refinement of table water level thresholds to meet regulatory autonomys. This resulted in the need to replace the Tihange 2 well pumps. The installation of the pumps is scheduled for the end of 2017. The problem of low groundwater levels is generic for the three reactors at the Tihange site. Tihange 2 was, however, the only one of the three reactors that, at some point in 2012, no longer respected autonomy time. For the Doel site, there is no safety issue because the groundwater is not pumped there. At Doel, the water from the Scheldt is used and, as a backup, the emergency cooling basins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u83	I'm going to take the time to read your head-rested answer, because I'm not sure I understand. You tell me, first of all, that in April 2013 another solution was found in Tihange by pumping the water of the Meuse and deminerating it, which solves the problem. Then you tell me that we still have to watch because it is only in 2017 that we will change the pumps. This does not seem to me to be very consistent with the remaining risk of using the groundwater. This means that for each of the plants on the same site, there are groundwater sub-naps that are affected. I thought it was the same water table used for Tihange 1, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. A groundwater table does not have a power plant-related barrier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u84	As I understand it, it is only the pumps of Tihange 2 – and not the tablecloths – that are problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u85	So these are the pumps, but not the tablecloths? All right. I will read your answer carefully. If need be, I'll come back and ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u86	Minister, in the spring of 2013, a frost overflow was observed on many drums of low-level radioactive waste stored in Belgium. It is legitimate to ask whether drums similar to those presenting this defect were submerged by Belgium, since it is known that from 1960 to 1982 Belgium submerged more than 50,000 containers of radioactive waste at seven different sites in the North Atlantic, sometimes at depths of less than 200 metres. Does the AFCN have a proper view of the contents of the 54,000 submerged containers? Are disposal sites for Belgian radioactive waste regularly inspected? What control is organised at each of the seven sites? At what rate are these inspections organized? Have containers of similar composition to those that caused the frost to appear been immersed? Is it not appropriate to recover them as quickly as possible to manage them on the surface, like other damaged drums?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u87	Mr Nollet, it is clear that AFCN is aware of the radioactive waste that has been dumped at sea by Belgium. Seeing that the frost overflow has already been observed in 2013, you are not the first to wonder whether drums similar to those presenting this defect have been immersed by Belgium. As a result, AFCN had published a dossier on this subject in 2014 already on its website. I take back for you the answers that had already been provided. As regards the contents of the 54,000 barrels, due to lack of historical information, it is difficult to estimate the precise content of containers of radioactive waste immersed at sea by Belgium. Their activity at the time of disposal ensures that they are mainly low-level radioactive waste and possibly medium-level radioactive waste. The exact contents of these containers are therefore no longer known. Are they regularly monitored? From 1958 until 1977, in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, States were free to organise and monitor radioactive waste disposal operations themselves, provided that they complied with IAEA recommendations on the selection of disposal sites, control of operations and impact assessment. Monitoring of sites was therefore carried out under the sole control of the State concerned, as defined by the 1972 London Convention. In order to increase cooperation on this subject among States, the OECD decided to set up a consultation and monitoring mechanism for the disposal of radioactive waste at sea in 1977. This decision added international surveillance to national controls and required countries to comply with the guidelines and monitoring of the NEA. The OECD decision required the NEA to evaluate every five years the last sites still in use in 1977. The CRESP (Coordinated Environmental Research and Monitoring Program for the Disposal of Radioactive Waste) research program was introduced in 1980. Its goal was to provide a reliable and comprehensive scientific basis for assessments of disposal sites in the North Atlantic. The results of analyses of samples collected at the time showed no significant increase in concentrations of radionuclides representative of the disposed waste. In view of the low levels of exposure and irradiation identified, the need for continued monitoring of the NEA site after the 1993 total ban was not retained. The monitoring programme was completed in 1995. What are the types of controls on the seven sites? Radioactive waste disposal sites are not monitored at this time. However, most North Atlantic countries continuously monitor the quality of their territorial waters. Belgium, for example, provides continuous radiological monitoring of its territory and territorial waters. Each year, the AFCN carries out inspections throughout the marine area and carries out 1,840 radioactivity measurements of 450 samples taken at sea. The results confirm that there is no problem with the radiological status of the marine environment. I come to your question about containers of similar composition. Different types of drums have been immersed at sea: metal drums and concrete drums in which the waste has been incorporated into bitumen, cement or concrete matrices. Containers similar to those with gel formation have indeed been submerged on the high seas by Belgium. These frost formation reactions probably occurred in some containers of submerged waste. It is therefore not unlikely that gel leaks could have occurred. It should be recalled, however, that at the time of disposal at sea, the radioactive waste management strategy was not based on long-term containment of radionuclides in waste containers, as is the case today. The strategy was then based on an approach of dispersion and dilution of radionuclides in a very large volume of water in the event of loss of containment. The packaging matrix was therefore not intended to contain radionuclides in waste containers in the long term. The formation and overflowing of a gel in these containers will therefore not result in a release of radionuclides greater than was anticipated at the time. Since there is no risk to safety, it does not seem to us on the agenda to take action on the issue of the recovery of drums.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u88	Minister, I cannot agree with your conclusion. Similar drums are located in earth storage areas and are considered too dangerous, until reconditioned, to be buried in the landfill imagined in about ten years' time. On the other hand, similar drums were thrown into the open sea. And now we don't care! You say that the sites are unfortunately little known. We can hardly control them. This is probably true, but what about our responsibility for these 54,000 barrels? Not everyone is said to be problematic, but campaigns have been carried out. You mentioned the campaign of the Federal Agency. Greenpeace also searched for images of these drums. We could have seen them. This is, to say the least, challenging, just like the drums that are in the surface storage spaces. So, it's little known and little followed. We know there's freezing problems, but we don't care!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u89	1,800 surveys on the sea, it's not...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u90	On this part, you say "1,800 surveys in Belgian territorial waters". Oh, yes! I assume you've spotted the seven sites where our drums were dumped. There is one actually nearby, in our territorial waters. This site is at a depth between 65 and 160 metres. It's nothing like a depth at sea. The remaining sites are up to 4,750 metres deep. And at these other sites, which are most sites with high becquerels activity, there is no control. There's no control! But we're happy because we control two of them that are near our territorial waters. Our responsibility is enormous. If we take a step backwards, the Egyptians have bequeathed to future generations works of art, pyramids. We leave our most dangerous and polluting waste, but we don't care! We're not looking. This is obviously an obsolete concept. Fortunately, radioactive waste is no longer being disposed of in the North Sea. I'm not saying you're responsible. On the other hand, with respect to the lack of follow-up and even of follow-up capacity, I believe that the government has a fairly important responsibility. It is not because you are not responsible for the past that you should not be more concerned about the management of this past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u91	Minister, could you give a brief account of the progress of work under way at the Tihange 1 plant in connection with the extension of this plant? What work has already been done? For what amounts? Is it necessary to replace the lid of the Tihange 1 reactor? When was this possible replacement planned? What control does the AFCN have over the performance and quality of this work? Is the work carried out in accordance with the planned timetable in which a delay has been observed, e.g. with regard to the replacement of the lid? Does the PSAN verify the implementation schedule and can it give us a dashboard of what was planned and what was achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u92	Mr Nollet, as part of the long-term operation of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant, Electrabel has the obligation, through its operating authorisation as amended by the Royal Decree of September 2015, to implement the Tihange 1 LTO Action Plan approved by AFCN. The Commission is closely monitoring the progress of this action plan, in close cooperation with Bel V, who is verifying the correct implementation of all actions on the ground. This action plan has four main components: first, the preconditions for extending life, then managing aging, re-evaluation of the design of Tihange 1 and, finally, the management of skills, knowledge and behaviour. Electrabel is currently implementing this action plan in accordance with the planning approved by AFCN. All actions related to pre-conditions and skills, knowledge and behaviour management were carried out before 30 September 2015; date corresponding to the beginning of the long-term exploitation of Tihange 1. The actions of the third strand on ageing management, the replacement of end-of-life structures, systems and components, were carried out during the three shutdowns of the plant in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Today, only the design re-evaluation component is being implemented. Much of the action has already been finalized. The remainder is expected to be finalized in 2017, with the exception of the extended building scheduled for completion in 2019. Electrabel is following the LTO action plan correctly, as scheduled. The PSAN has no information regarding the amount invested by the operator for this work. Finally, the lid of the Tihange 1 reactor tank was replaced in 1999. The analyses carried out as part of the definition of the LTO Action Plan did not conclude that it needed to be replaced again. Therefore, its replacement is not planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u94	Question No 15257 by Mrs Poncelet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u95	Mr. President, I'm not responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u96	Minister, according to electoral law lawyer John Bonifaz and computer science professor at the University of Michigan John Alex Halderman, a fraud targeted on electronic voting systems would have taken place in the states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania during the U.S. presidential election last November. According to their research, in Wisconsin, Hillary Clinton obtained an average of 7% fewer votes in polling stations equipped with electronic voting devices than in the manual counting offices. Mr. Halderman explained his hypothesis on the medium social network: "First, the instigators investigate the polling stations very upstream to find how to enter the computers. In the run-up to the election, when polls show in which states the results will be tight, they spread malicious software in some voting machines to favour a candidate. This software is designed to remain inactive during pre-election tests, perform its dirty job on polling day, and then self-efface when the office closes". In a joint communiqué of 7 October, the Department of Internal Security (DHS) and the US Intelligence Directorate (ODNI) accused Russia of hacking the US electoral information system. This joint communiqué is, moreover, a first in history. In an interview published on 29 November in the Süddeutsche Zeitung, the head of the German foreign intelligence service said: "Europe, and Germany in particular, is at the centre of these attempts to destabilize Russia". Where, Minister, my four questions. Are your services currently assessing the risks of computer hacking of future electronic voting in 2018 and 2019? What additional security measures has the Inland FPS planned in the light of recent American experiences? Have any contacts been made with the DHS for information purposes? Is the Inland FPS working on specific measures to address any intrusion of malware into electronic voting devices? How does the Inland FPS envisage allowing its agents an absolute control of the route carried out by automated voting machines, in order to avoid any possibility of installing malicious software, if these devices are leased to a provider and therefore relocateable throughout the world? Is your department still considering renting this equipment? I read a letter that was sent by the Brussels Minister-President, in which the purchase was being considered. I therefore feel that this issue has been resolved. You won't rent this equipment. But what about Flanders? Can you say that? Finally, when do you intend to present the legal framework for the use of automated voting in Flanders and Brussels? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u97	Mr Hellings, in relation to your first two questions, it is of course obvious that the services of the Home SPF assess the risks of hacking electronic voting systems in the light of, among other things, the recent US election. In addition, the Home SPF services are actively collaborating with their concerned colleagues in the federated entities in this area. There is a need to specify an important specificity of our equipment. It does not have any hard drive, it cannot store software from a possible different election. It is also important to clarify that voting computers in offices in Belgium are not connected to the Internet. The five computers in a polling station are not interlinked with each other or with the office president. All these computers are in standalone. Similarly, the Inland FPS computer used to create and duplicate USB drives containing the voting software is also not connected to the Internet. All these procedures take place in a vacuum compared to the internet, with physical access to the area of creation and duplication of USB drives being themselves limited to certain authorized agents of the Inland FPS. With regard to the security of voting software, the procedures are in place. I think, for example, of the important role of the College of Experts on the subject. Automatic controls internal to the software are also implemented in order to verify the consistency of the votes at each stage of the electoral procedure. The services of the Inland FPS also evaluate the implementation of new types of controls in the light of technological developments and known experiences elsewhere in the world. Contacts with our American counterparts will eventually be made if the suspicions of computer fraud, which you cite, are substantiated. As for your third question, the Brussels authorities have informed us of their wish to use the acquisition of new electronic voting materials and not their rental. The German-speaking authorities should do the same. As in the past, these computers will remain stored in Belgium under the responsibility of the municipalities and will always be subject to annual reliability checks. With regard to your fourth question, the legal framework for the use of electronic voting in federal elections is defined by the Act of 7 February 2014 organizing electronic voting with paper proof.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u98	Your answer, Minister, reminds me of an exchange that I had with Ms.Milquet, which preceded you, when we adopted in the Senate, when it still had something to say, the legal framework for the introduction of electronic voting. At the time, I had raised the technical possibility that a computer that was not connected to the Internet - and this is clearly the case with American computers that were hacked - could, by means of wave methods that are technically viable today, pass under the control of someone outside. It's no longer science fiction, it's reality. Your American counterparts, who organize electronic voting in these different states, have not connected their machines to the Internet. And yet, a third state, visibly Russia, but it is the investigation that will demonstrate it, could actually influence the result of a vote, with the consequences that we know. I learn that there will be no rental in the Brussels case, and obviously not in Flanders either, according to what I understood. I hope you don't consider renting. Indeed, it is clear that the rental of voting equipment would offer opportunities for a third State, Russia in particular, to have access to these machines. We will follow this closely and ensure that these new voting methods are implemented, which prove to be extremely dangerous for democracy, as the American and German examples seem to show.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u99	We have no news from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. 15271. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 15284 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u100	Mr President, may I ask what happens to such questions? I assume that those will disappear from the agenda if the Member is not present and has not been excused either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u101	The question of a member who has not received an apology shall be deemed to have been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u102	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u103	Some Members have warned us, such as Mr Maingain, who is still on the way. We can only evaluate this at the end of this sitting. However, we have not heard from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u104	Mr President, Minister, in reply to this question in plenary, Minister Marghem replied that you are competent to answer it, and that is why I repeat my question here. I will be brief, because I am sure you know what this is about. Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, and Johannes Remmel, Minister for the Environment of the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, have actually demanded that Belgium shut down a number of nuclear power stations. That's not the end of it. After all, Minister Marghem was somewhat easy to get rid of by alluating at the forthcoming elections in Germany, which would make that demand a stunt. However, in the Netherlands and Luxembourg too there are many questions about our nuclear power stations. In particular, the local authorities of border municipalities ask additional questions about the security issue. In addition, the FANC has sent sharp letters to the CEO of ENGIE Electrabel, which has already been discussed in the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. Minister, what dialogue do you have with the various municipalities and governments of our neighbouring countries? How do you check their questions and comments? In what way do you respond and make an improvement? After all, it is about the security of all of us, of all citizens both in Belgium and in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u105	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, first of all I would like to say that we have received no request from Mr Schulz for the closure of any nuclear power station. However, we have received a question to provide for closure in case of doubt. That question is addressed to the Prime Minister. For the sake of clarity, this question was not put by Mr Schulz in his capacity as President of the European Parliament. He made that statement and asked that question in his personal name. His position does not change the fact that he is free. We are happy to live in a free society to ask such a question in his personal name during debates in his region in the context of elections. There is currently a concern in that region that I feel is fuelled by a colourful coverage of protest movements, which is easily reflected in certain media. For the sake of clarity, I would like to repeat what I have repeated a hundred thousand times and will continue to repeat. However, if there is any doubt about nuclear safety on the basis of rumours, motions and so on from abroad, the FANC must immediately shut down the plant. The FANC also does this when needed; there are plenty of evidence of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u106	As long as there was doubt about the existence of sufficient safety margins for the reactor vessels of Objective 3 and Tihange 2, the crack reactors, the FANC has not approved a restart. Following a thorough study and analysis, supported and independently verified, including by international experts, the FANC considered that there were sufficient safety margins. I can tell you that we share the data from these studies with all our homologs abroad, including in Germany, the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg. It's a complex file. The FANC is making great efforts to communicate clearly on this issue, including abroad. As with all neighbouring countries, the FANC also has close contacts with its German counterparts, both with the Federal Bundesministerium für Umwelt, Naturschutz, Bau und Reaktorsicherheit, the BMUB, and with representatives of the various Länder. Following the re-launch of the reactors Objective 3 and Tihange 2, a delegation of experts from the German nuclear safety authorities and their scientific advisory council was received by the FANC earlier this year, including a visit to the nuclear power station in Tihange. This first bilateral meeting between the nuclear safety authorities of both countries followed an international meeting at which experts from 15 countries, including Germany, met. At the April meeting, delegations from both countries clearly discussed the current situation of the Belgian and German nuclear facilities and all questions from German experts were answered in detail. No new issues were raised which would compromise previous decisions taken by the FANC. In view of the growing concerns within German politics and the media, a new meeting was organised at the beginning of December 2016 on the same issues of cooperation and exchange of information and experience in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection. It also discussed the improvement actions currently being taken in Tihange. After this recent meeting, the German authorities expressed their satisfaction with the transparent, constructive attitude of the Belgian regulator and did not insist on the closure of our nuclear power plants. The next meetings were also scheduled. In the meantime, the system of cross-inspections has also started, with Belgium starting at the end of this week by participating in a cross-inspection at a decommissioning plant in Germany. You know that we have been doing this for a long time in France, that I started it with the Netherlands about a year ago, and that we also offered it to the Germans at the first moments when they began to criticise. Now that can be translated into practice. I will also sign an agreement with German Minister Barbara Hendricks next week. There are also good contacts at ministerial level. I've met this lady several times. This agreement formalises the regular exchange of information that has just been mentioned. Following the example of the agreement with Luxembourg, a meeting will be held at least annually. It also provides for the possibility of setting up working groups on specific dossiers. In short, I really believe that we are making every effort to remove the concerns in this area in our neighbouring countries. However, the dissemination of information through action groups and opposition parties is, of course, permitted in our free society. We are trying to put the correct information on the contrary, as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have no doubt that people are trying to separate rumors from scientific information. The fact is that they do not succeed, not even in the official bodies. The German counterpart of the FANC continues to raise a number of questions. I read that in the press; or the information in the press is not correct. You say that we have not received any official question from Mr Schulz. I'm sure that's true, but I heard the Dutch Environment Minister, Melanie Schultz, ask the same question in the Dutch Parliament last week. Despite the great efforts that are being made on the Belgian side, to which you refer, the concern remains very great, with the policy-makers and certainly with the residents of the neighbourhood. I live close to the border area. We have a lot of contacts with the people in Terneuzen because of the port. The people there are very concerned and they are not getting rid of that concern. You were invited to the debate with Minister Marghem and the FANC, where Mr Schulz said a number of things. By not going into that, we are, of course, increasing the concern. I believe that this is being dealt with in much too lightly in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u108	Mr President, I do not think we are taking this lightly. We are making enormous efforts, but I do not respond to every invitation from someone who is personally responsible for organising what, because then I cannot do anything else. I would rather deal with the safety of our nuclear power stations than with the question of everyone who is in an election campaign. I had a telephone call from Mrs Melanie Schultz van Haegen, a colleague from the Netherlands, the day before the committee meeting in question. She repeated that in committee on the next day. I have assured her that if we have the slightest doubt about the safety of one of our plants, it will close. However, I will base myself on studies, on a scientific approach from our own security agency, in which I have confidence. There may be differences of opinion on the latter. One can say that one has lost faith in the FANC. I do have faith in the FANC and in the professionalism of the FANC. I do not base myself on interpretations, but on the studies, studies and validations carried out by the FANC. I am prepared to share that with the greatest transparency with all those responsible in this respect. We do, too! It is true that there are regular questions from different homologs of the FANC. Those questions are answered over and over again. I say to you that all the questions of the German authorities were answered to their satisfaction. This does not alter the fact that different views may exist in certain Länder. We're talking to the Germans at the federal level. I am prepared to share all this information with the German Länder. In this respect, I believe that we are making the necessary efforts, and even more so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u109	Minister, I am sure you will, but it is not helping enough. You have been in contact with Mrs Schultz van Haegen and she has said in Parliament the next day that she would ask the government to shut down the nuclear power stations. So your contact with Mrs Schultz van Haegen didn't really help.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u110	She didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u111	It has asked for a temporary closure of nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u112	If there's a safety problem. However, there is no safety problem. That's what she said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u113	But there is also such a thing as a precautionary principle. I maintain that this is being handled far too lightly, especially since the complaints and questions are becoming very general. It is not only from cities and municipalities in Germany; there are also complaints from Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Moreover, Minister, I read in the specialized press that the German FANC also has questions which remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u114	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, pages 135 and 136 of the Government Agreement refer to the government's desire to reform police training. In particular, it states that "the government will pay particular attention to the quality policy and the standardization of police training. To this end, the regulations will be drafted, management contracts will be drawn up with the police academies and control and accompanying measures will be implemented. The government will also strengthen collaboration and synergies between police schools, with a view to rationalisation." As a result, I have recently learned that a working group is being established to implement a strategy to implement this reform, both organizationally and functionally, in police training. Deputy Prime Minister, at the dawn of this reform which will change the landscape of police training, allow me to address these few questions. Could you tell us what the government's intentions to date are in terms of the standardization of police training? Is it a matter of standardizing the programs offered by the various police academies of the kingdom? If so, what are the ideas? Take the example of training in the field of domestic violence, a subject on which I asked you earlier, following the new curriculum proposed by the Academy of Namur. Knowing that these facts represent a large part of the interventions of the local police and that this is the only academy offering a curriculum with a multidimensional approach, thanks to the intervention of various external actors such as psychologists, doctors, etc., is there a risk that this type of excellent initiative will disappear or, on the contrary, can one imagine that this type of curriculum can be promoted elsewhere in the country? Finally, the organization of police training is now managed by the provinces, as are firefighters and civil safety. What do you think will place the provinces in this new landscape? Is there a risk of the disappearance of either provincial police academy in a few years' time? How will their police training expertise be used in this new landscape? In advance, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u115	Dear colleague, the standardization of police training is already under way as part of the new training of the basic framework. The reform that is the subject of your question aims to continue this evolution by aligning police education with regular education, taking into account the Copenhagen and Bologna agreements; integrating training into safety-oriented education; also aiming to provide for consistency with other safety disciplines – I am thinking of fire services, civil protection, emergency medical aid, etc. – by creating more synergies and stimulating collaboration. Working groups have been set up at my firm level to begin thinking about the implementation and implementation of these main principles. The work of these groups will begin soon. The aim is to progressively implement the results of this work. The reform concerns the formation of the basic framework and therefore does not jeopardise ongoing training initiatives, such as the training on domestic violence you cite. We will ensure that all the training offered to police officers remains coherent and needs-oriented. The place of the provinces and the role of schools are part of the working groups set up as part of the reform, which include representatives of police schools, provinces and communities. As I have already said, these working groups will begin their reflection shortly. It is clear, however, that the very principle of decentralization of training is not called into question. I have always said that, for basic training, the proximity of schools was a key element. This idea is not intended to reduce the number of schools. However, the issue of specialties can be considered more in schools that train firefighters than in police schools. Do all schools have to include all specialties? I am not talking about basic training here. The different schools could agree to determine the specialties of each of them (gas fires, fires in hospitals, hotels, etc.).). If that were the case, more could be invested in further basic training and more professional facilities for specialized training should be moved. I think it's feasible. This is an opportunity to improve training. It's not about saving money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u116	Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. It is indeed a good thing to have a concordance with all the other formations. Synergy is very important. I am pleased to hear that specific training will not be put at risk, including the training on domestic violence. It's obviously something I care about. Finally, providing specific training in a school, particularly for firefighters, seems to me to be a good way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u117	Minister, on June 1, 2015, Jan Bens, Managing Director of AFCN, gave his famous interview in Le Soir. Following this lamentable interview, the AFCN Board of Directors entrusted Whyte Corporate Affairs with a full audit of the Agency's communication, which took place between October 2015 and April 2016. At its meeting on 29 April, the Management Board approved the recommendations contained in the audit office's report. The Chairman of the AC of AFCN was then heard by the nuclear safety subcommittee on 7 June. He told us that the AC required Mr. Bens to provide answers to all of the findings and recommendations of the audit. I then proposed that the Director General develop an action plan to respond to the audit and suggested that this action plan and its evolution be regularly communicated to Parliament. Unfortunately, this was not accepted. Minister, can you explain to me what initiatives the AFCN has taken to respond to the findings and recommendations of the audit - in particular the very important remarks concerning the negative working climate, the division of departments, the lack of leadership or the loss of independence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u118	Mr Thiébaut, with regard to the last part of your question, it has been proved, and the listeners have confirmed, that these alarm calls were unfounded. I think that's a bit of a shame. With regard to the communication, which was the real purpose of the audit, I am in a position to provide you with the following information. The arrival of the new Head of the Communication Service, who also participates in the Management Committee as Permanent Secretary, has the direct result of close cooperation and better communication between the Service and management. Regular and systematic meetings between the Director-General and the Head of the Communication Service have been planned. The service was strengthened by a public affairs officer earlier this month. This new employee will allow the Agency to focus fully on certain priorities such as support for the various services, setting up and carrying out communication campaigns, the new website, etc. In line with the above commitments, the various profiles existing within the Communication Service have been repositioned by clarifying and delineating the tasks and priorities of each, without affecting the versatility of the employees and the cross-cutting nature of the tasks. A single unit is in charge of internal and external communication with the objective of giving new impetus to internal communication by improving, among other things, the intranet and the staff midday formula. Other easy and visible improvements related to some internal communication tools should be undertaken in the short term. These actions aim to bring the different services closer together and to better disseminate information among all staff. The process of modernizing and improving the user-friendliness of the website has accelerated with the revision of both visual and textual content. This reflects the Agency's commitment to a better approach to proactive communication vis-à-vis its various stakeholders. The end of this project is scheduled for the first half of 2017. As far as media training is concerned, a market study has already been carried out and training will take place in the first half of 2017. The revision of the overall objectives of the Communication Service has been finalized. As far as départements are concerned, a project was initiated in 2014 to provide the Agency with a management-system. It is intended to improve the functioning of the Agency, but it is above all the recognition that the activities arising from the Agency's mission are, for the most part, cross-cutting. This is all the more important as this is reflected in the policies proposed by the field, based on the direction given by the Director General and his deputies. The resulting processes are developed in a cross-cutting manner, accepted by different departments and implemented in a coherent manner. In addition, in the preparation of the next three-year operational plan, management and middle management reiterated their willingness to continue to promote cross-cutting collaboration between agents, necessary for the achievement of the Agency's mission. If the mention of a negative working climate refers to social relations and even if they have been difficult, the consultation has resumed and continues. The arrival of new managers in the service of human resources also opens up new opportunities to work together with the social partners. In general, the Director General has always been attentive and open, allowing staff to express themselves. In addition, the number of meetings of the Core Consultation Committee has increased threefold since its inception. If the reference to the negative working climate refers to the four specific risk analyses requested in 2015 and carried out in 2016, the results are being communicated and the actions to be taken are being developed. In addition, the quantitative risk analysis was conducted in mid-2016 and the analysis of the results is under way. This is only part of the various actions undertaken by the employer in the context of well-being at work. The so-called loss of independence has already been discussed at length following your question No 13052 of July and in the nuclear safety sub-committee of 28 June 2016. I remind you of the conclusions adopted: Whyte writes in his report that the Agency gives the impression of being sensitive to political and economic influences. There is no political influence. As the appropriate minister, and like my predecessor, I obviously had contacts with the AFCN regarding the operation of the Agency. Apart from that, we let AFCN work independently without any political influence. At the same time, the findings of the audit report do not at any time call into question the decisions of the PSAN. Its positions are always adopted collegially by the experts. It is thanks to the independence and expertise of these experts who carry out the monitoring and analysis that the AFCN is able to make reliable decisions about the safety of nuclear facilities, among other things. Never was a decision of the AFCN made by a single person. Any pressure on the Agency, wherever it comes from, can already be excluded. The AFCN is not influenced by the economic world. It is financed entirely by holders of authorisations and authorisations necessary to be able to carry out acts leading to the exposure of persons to ionizing radiation. Indeed, the control and analysis of the AFCN relate to these acts, and it also prepares the regulatory framework under the Act of 15 April 1994. Does this mean that it makes decisions influenced by operators? On the contrary. The AFCN rigorously and independently ensures that operators assume their responsibilities to protect the population, workers and the environment from ionizing radiation. In fact, it has recently shown on several occasions that it does not hesitate to denounce certain problems found in the operators it controls. In particular, I would like to refer you to the letters that Mr Bens sent to Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u119	Minister, the audit was asked about the communication policy. But from the moment we have other conclusions, it is normal for parliamentarians to worry about it. In fact, you have responded to these concerns. Thank you for this very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u120	Minister, in April of this year the High Health Council recommended that iodine pills should be spread more widely than in today's 20-mile perimeter around nuclear power stations and nuclear installations. In fact, the Supreme Health Council believes that every Belgian should receive an iodine pill. By extending the perimeter to 100 kilometres, the entire Belgian population would be protected in the event of a nuclear disaster. Of course, that remains relative, as everyone knows. The FANC Scientific Council also made the same recommendation in January this year in the internal note "Opinion on emergency planning." Your colleague from Health, Minister De Block, has also been in favour of a more general spread of iodine pills. It gives itself until the end of 2017 to set up a distribution system for this purpose. Now we have heard in the French-speaking media that for budgetary reasons you would not take the advice of the High Health Council and the FANC to spread iodine tablets more widely. Mr Minister, can you explain why this wider spread is not going to happen? What is the difference in cost between a general distribution and the limited plan that now exists? Why are the costs involved not simply passed on to the operators of the nuclear power plants? That would seem obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u121	Mrs Temmerman, you take things from the press that I have never said, done, written or put forward, and which you will not find in the plan. As appropriate, preventive action is taken to avoid nuclear incidents and to protect the population. In the event of an incident, maximum efforts will be made to deal with the crisis and reduce its consequences. With regard to the distribution of iodine tablets, since 2002, the population has initially been supplied in a 20 km zone around the nuclear installations, a measure which France, for example, only recently decided. In line with the above-mentioned opinions of the High Health Council and the FANC Scientific Council, following the advice of the international expert group HERCA-WENRA, a prior distribution of iodine tablets in an expansion zone of up to 100 kilometres, in other words the whole country, is now envisaged. While no one is excluded, priority is given to the protection of vulnerable target groups, such as children and adolescents under the age of 18, pregnant women and breast-feeding women, and children's collective activities. In addition, the availability of iodine tablets is also highlighted in all pharmacies in Belgium. This is part of the overall strategy for the distribution of iodine tablets, which is being developed together with my colleague from Health. As with other costs linked to the implementation of the nuclear emergency plan, further research is being carried out into how the final global strategy is financed through the so-called nuclear fund's resources, financed through the fees imposed by law on nuclear energy producers. The cost will depend on the selected reasonable and acceptable strategy, which is not chosen on the basis of cost. So we are not assuming the cost, but rather the strategy, and I have already told you which one it will be. In view of all the above, I am very surprised to note that the relevant provisions in my policy paper, stressing the importance of the distribution of iodine tablets across the country for the priority groups mentioned, as requested by the High Health Council, would now be called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u122	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that I asked you that question so that you can correct it. I refer to an article in La Dernière Heure from the beginning of November, as well as an article in Het Laatste Nieuws. I am satisfied because you say in your reply that the iodine tablets will still be spread throughout the country. You could, of course, pass on the cost to the producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u123	The costs will be reimbursed through the nuclear fund and this fund will be provided with contributions from producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u124	I understand that's how you get the money from the producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u126	I'm sorry, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u127	La Dernière Heure has also written that porn photos were taken on my cabinet. That message had to be withdrawn the next day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u128	That is why it is a good thing that parliamentary questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u129	Mr. President, Minister, AFCN informed Electrabel of its concerns about the alarming values of heart fusion probabilities resulting from the "Fire PSA" and "Fire Hazard Analysis" studies for Doel 3 and 4, Tihange 1, 2 and 3. These concerns are reflected on page 1 of their letter. The first sentence on page 3 is equally alarming: "These results are frankly disastrous as regards the risk of fire in the units studied for probabilistic studies but also for deterministic studies where several premises are classified as'red problem'". Given the seriousness of these findings and the potential consequences, we must have full clarity on the situation. Can I ask you, as part of your response, to be as specific as possible on the results of this study? Are you prepared to forward the complete study, including Annex 2 to the letter of 1 July, to Parliament so that its sub-committee on nuclear safety can examine in depth tomorrow what appears to be one of the most alarming risks for the country? I would also like to ask you specifically about the situation of Doel 1 and 2. How could AFCN give its green light to the extension, while its letter of 1 July indicates, black on white, that no similar study exists for these two plants and that they are therefore in breach of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011? My second question is not about the content of the problems identified, but about Electrabel's failure to respect the safety culture. The AFCN informed the senior officials of Electrabel and Engie, by letter of 2 September, of its greatest concern about the management by Electrabel of its nuclear activities in Belgium and about the lack of proactivity shown by Electrabel in terms of actions that would lead to a positive change in the level of safety, as regards the situation of the Tihange plant and the inability of Electrabel to react structurally, quickly and effectively to significantly increase the level of nuclear safety. This letter also tells us that an unannounced visit to Tihange on 9 August 2016 revealed that the new action plan on which Electrabel had committed himself had only partially been implemented and that the situation in Tihange 2 would be particularly difficult. I would like you to describe as fully as possible the situation encountered on the site during this visit on 9 August. Following these disturbing findings, a new unannounced inspection took place on Friday, August 12, 2016. The AFCN found that there were still structural problems at the level of the Electrabel organization that jeopardized the maintenance of a sufficient level of safety. The lack of personnel and the difficult relations within the reactor 2 operating department are mentioned in particular. Again, and in the face of the gravity of the situation – the mail talks about failing management of knowledge, errors in calculating the ageing of welding at Doel, oblivion of a significant limitation, an erroneous safety code, insufficient proactivity, inability for more than a year to react structurally, quickly and effectively – I would like you to be able to describe the situation encountered on the site as exhaustively as possible during this visit on 12 August. I would also like you to explain the steps taken by the PSAN and to clarify why, contrary to any logic and contrary to the commitments made in previous problems, sanctions are no more severe and why justice has not been brought before the Federal Agency. I must recall here what Mr Bens said at his sub-committee hearing on 29 July: "In the event of a malfunction, in the future, the AFCN will not hesitate to adopt a repressive approach". Where is this repressive approach? Since when does writing two letters constitute an approach, a repressive phase? In the face of such a repetition of incidents, in the face of such a breakdown, I am convinced that, like me, you think, Minister, that a pro justitia was justified, as was a financial sanction and an indication on the INES scale. Isn't that right? By the way, I would like you to tell me what the previous pro justitia have led, what judicial duties have been carried out, what decisions have been taken. Minister, the magnitude of these questions reflects the seriousness of the situation as seen in the letters, but also in the absence of consequences as to what is noted, real consequences in relation to previous commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u130	Mr President, Minister, it was stated in La Libre Belgique in November that two alarming letters had been sent by Mr Bens. The first, dated July 1, 2016, was addressed to the CEO of Electrabel. The second, dated September 2, 2016, was addressed to the President of the Board of Directors of Electrabel, also Executive Director of the Engie Group. By reading these letters, we learn that our nuclear power plants are insufficiently protected against the risk of fire. The AFCN boss refers – I quote – to "the concerns raised by the alarming values of heart fusion probabilities resulting from the 'Fire PSA' studies for Doel 3 and 4 units, Tihange 1, 2, 3". The risk raised by the PSAN should have called for a rapid response from the operator, but the operator appears to be responding to the denial. According to the second letter from the AFCN DG, Electrabel's officials show – and I quote – "a great break-up" for the results of the study. Jan Bens concludes: "Electrabel seems very little concerned about this issue and I have doubts about the willingness to put the necessary means to solve these problems quickly". So you will admit that the situation is quite worrying. Minister, what is your position on these serious facts? Electrabel's failure to respond quickly and effectively to a serious risk raised by the AFCN must be sanctioned by a strong attitude of the safety authority and the government. What steps have been taken to force Electrabel to comply as soon as possible? What is the current situation? Can you assure us that Belgian power plants have complied with the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations, including Doel 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u131	Colleagues, the AFCN promotes the effective protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation. It ensures both safety and nuclear security, and it ensures that operators of nuclear facilities comply with their legal obligations. In this regard, several articles have been published in the media in recent weeks. Various files and technical terms cited on this occasion deserve a few words of explanation. First, nuclear safety and nuclear security must not be confused. Nuclear safety includes all measures taken with regard to nuclear facilities to avoid incidents and accidents and, where appropriate, minimize their consequences. Safety therefore concerns the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation and also covers all technical measures designed to optimise waste management. On the other hand, nuclear security concerns the various measures designed to prevent, detect and respond to break-in, theft, sabotage or any other malicious act. Under the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on the physical protection of nuclear materials and nuclear facilities, operators of nuclear facilities and transport companies are required to file with AFCN an application for registration for their physical protection system. Under this authorisation procedure, operators may take action and make improvements until 1 May 2017. Until then, the PSAN will evaluate the physical production system in place and decide on the licence application. Based on the latest assessments of Electrabel's physical protection system, the AFCN decided on 1 November 2016, on a provisional basis, not to grant it an authorisation. This decision does not mean that the current system of protection is not acceptable, but that it can be improved in the eyes of the PSAN. Electrabel now has three months to make the changes recommended by the Agency to its system of physical protections. The AFCN closely follows this analysis process and regularly talks with Electrabel on this issue. The purpose of this approval procedure is twofold. Firstly, to improve the level of safety of nuclear installations and transports which are already high. Secondly, ensure that all workers move towards an optimal safety culture. Electrabel has developed programmes specifically dedicated to the deployment of this safety culture. As regards safety, the media also referred to two letters sent by AFCN to Electrabel and not to EDF, Électricité de France, which is the operator of nuclear power plants in France and the United Kingdom. In both letters, the Agency expressed concern about the safety of Belgian nuclear power plants and the attitude of Electrabel to the safety culture. In fact, it was in connection with this safety culture that the AFCN drew up, over the past year, two minutes against Electrabel, after finding that the safety procedures were not strictly applied at the Tihange nuclear power plant. However, the Agency would like to point out that there has never been a real risk, but that it applies the highest standards of nuclear safety. According to AFCN, the safety analysis, Fire PSA, contains obvious errors and the results do not reflect the actual situation in Belgian nuclear power plants. During inspections at nuclear power plants, the AFCN found no demonstrable facts, which should lead to the shutdown or closure of the facilities. AFCN convened Electrabel to conduct new studies as a matter of urgency. And anticipating the results of these new studies, the ACFN commissioned Electrabel to give another priority to the implementation of measures aimed specifically and clearly at improving fire safety. Since the letters dated last summer, AFCN has found that Electrabel has already taken steps to respond to the comments made in these two letters. Electrabel also called on two well-known French experts to help restore the situation. Critical steps still need to be taken. The AFCN remains vigilant in this regard. For the rest, I refer you to the answers given last week in this committee to the questions relating to my policy note. On this occasion, the various points that you have raised have been widely discussed. If I am well informed, tomorrow the Security Committee will meet in the presence of all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u132	Minister, once it is not customary, I remain on my hunger. I will review what you said in the proceedings, on the policy note. But it was made clear to me that, since it did not concern a budgetary issue, this issue was not dealt with in that context. She'd be treated this week. But it's still true that...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u133	... Last week, I answered every question asked, in detail. I didn't make a distinction...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u134	I did not have the opportunity to ask my question because I had contact with the services, who said to me: "We are dealing with budgetary matters and, others, we are delaying them". That is why it comes to the agenda today!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u135	Other colleagues asked the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u136	That is why it is now on the agenda... Nevertheless, I will go back to the report, if the secretariat can give me the number or the provisional version of the report, by e-mail, tonight. Otherwise, I am in trouble because we have a debate tomorrow in the subcommittee. As far as the elements you give in your answer are concerned, I would like to believe you. The situation is still great. Electrabel reports to AFCN, saying: "This is not right! It's risky if there's a fire. We are taking risks in terms of fusion of the reactor core." The Federal Agency replied: "No, no, you were wrong. It's all right in your power plants. Contrary to what you say, you have made mistakes in the calculations." It's really the world upside down! The gendarme is there to see, to check and to intervene when the operator himself says that everything is fine and that this is not the case and here it is the opposite! These data relate to elements related to "Fire" analyses and risks of fusion of the nuclear core. We will see what happens next in this section. You did not answer about the legal risk in relation to Doel 1 and Doel 2. In this regard, no studies have been carried out. There is no question of a poorly performed or miscalculated study. The prescription stated that this study should be carried out. We've extended the power plants without the studies. Since we considered that we were going to shut down the power plants at the time, we did not carry out any analysis. For the other plants, studies have been carried out. And there is another problem that is legal in nature. My second attached question is rather the way in which Electrabel reacts to the injunctions. This is not the first point in this respect. Here I repeat the terms of the mail: "failure to regulate", "an alarming value of the likelihood of fusion", "great disappointment", "disaggregated results", etc. If the studies have been so badly done, neglected, sloppy, it says a lot about the quality of the crack studies! Since Electrabel is also considered to have done these studies wrong and the conclusions are not valid. Here, we do it right, so why not in the crack study? No, there, of course, as it goes in the right direction, nothing is said! I am not surprised, after all this, that the neighbouring countries are asking for and continue to insist on the closure of the plants, that they have ordered 22 million iodine tablets, that they set up a citizen monitoring network. It makes sense from the moment that Electrabel herself cannot master her studies. I say again, legally, Doel 1 and Doel 2 did not comply with the royal decree and therefore could not be extended. On that, I think there is a real problem with the decision made by the Federal Agency. But beyond the concern about the current level of plant safety and the irresponsible lightness of Electrabel, I believe that the continuing situation, with these two pro justitia, demonstrates the inability of the nuclear safety authority to compel Electrabel to act in accordance with its own requirements. We're hard on the kids. I have a question about the situation of NTP Europe in Fleurus. The Federal Agency intervened and ordered them to stop production overnight. But with the big ones, with Electrabel, let's do it! I say that because, when he came to Parliament in July, Mr Bens said: "If after both pro justitia there is still the slightest problem, I will act in a binding way", i.e. with financial sanction and probably also with the obligation to temporarily shut down nuclear power plants. He said that in July. I'll question him tomorrow! Here, he's doing the opposite. What's he doing? It's more serious: he sends two letters. No pro justitia! There is no follow-up, there is no consistency. It is really time for the Federal Agency to speak the only language that can be understood by Electrabel, to force it to temporarily stop the reactors concerned. The letters make it clear that Electrabel is unable to tackle the problem seriously, or even is unwilling to do so. The Federal Agency must draw the conclusions that are necessary at the very least to file a complaint in court, as it has already done for much lesser facts, probably also temporarily shut down at-risk reactors. If the Agency does not dare to move, it is up to you, Minister. Why, on this basis, did you not file a complaint yourself? The situation cannot be trivialized on the pretext that it becomes recurrent. It is not because there have been less serious problems before that have justified a pro justitia that we must no longer do with it. That is what I fundamentally criticize, beyond the substantive analysis of the situation and the problem. I'd like you to say that you're going to take things in your own hands and also bring a point to court to make the state of Electrabel's problem of idleness. This is the term of the mail used by the Federal Agency! But the necessary conclusions are not drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u137	Mr President, Mr Minister, I am not going to be as long as my colleague, you can rest assured, especially since we will be seeing each other tomorrow on the same issues with Mr Bens. I look forward to hearing Mr. Bens's answers as well. Unlike my colleague, I believe that the letters he sent are not trivial: they are letters with very hard terms compared to Electrabel. So it's a gesture, a letter, a written trace. I assume that behind that there is a requirement for results and that tomorrow the Director of the Agency will tell us about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for agreeing to introduce me into the succession of your questions. Very modestly, because I have no doubt that Mr Nollet's questions are more relevant and important than mine, but their sequence is excellent, I am concerned about what languages will be used in the event of communication following a major disaster. If we follow Mr Nollet, we could one day be confronted with this situation! Mr. Minister, in Geneva, a UN Minority Forum on "Minorities in Humanitarian Crisis Situations" was held on 24 and 25 November. He held discussions on the situation of national minorities in conflict situations – which is the most serious and worrying situation that certainly attracts the attention of the Forum participants – but also in the event of natural disasters, man-made disasters or pandemics. In its preparatory documents, it is interesting to read that the United Nations thus recommends "to establish or continue to maintain open channels of communication with affected communities and to provide timely information in a format and language that is appropriate and culturally appropriate for specific minority groups". The document also stresses that assistance is valid for all citizens, regardless of their origin (ethnic, religious, national and linguistic). You see what I'm getting at. My concern is the communication which, in my view, relates to an event of such magnitude as a nuclear disaster, natural or caused by a pandemic, would justify a communication in the three national languages throughout the territory of the Belgian State, without distinction or discrimination depending on where the disaster occurs, where the spillovers occur and where the information is communicated. I draw your attention to the fact that information on risks and risk management in the event of disasters is currently spread over three official websites: info-risks.be, seveso.be and nuclear risk.be. That would probably be worth a little thought. Only one of these sites is multilingual. If you visit the French pages of the info-risks site and download the industrial risk information brochure, you are redirected to the English pages of the Seveso site where there are no Dutch or French versions. If you want to listen to the Seveso alert siren, the legend is displayed exclusively in Dutch and so on. I could give examples in the opposite direction, where service is not guaranteed in Dutch. As I say, I am ensuring full equality of treatment of languages, regardless of where they are concerned. My question is simple, minister. In terms of communication effectiveness, if such events occur, with all the consequences of the panic that this can cause the population, is there no need to review the language regime for this type of communication, and to ensure that information is given to at least the three national languages? Let's add English and perhaps more languages. All this is very easy now with automatic translations. Many things can be simplified in the translation work, even if it is always good to have translators reread this type of communication, so that there is no misconception about the terms used. Could you confirm to me that you may give instructions to work in this direction at the level of the services concerned? I believe that this would be a benefit for the protection of the populations concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u139	What concerns us all! Mr Maingain, there is no derogation from the use of languages in administrative matters, but I would like to draw your attention to the following facts. The Be-Alert Population Alert Platform provides for the possibility of indicating the language of contact in the registration section: Dutch, French or German. This allows the Crisis Centre, as a central service, to send an alert in the language chosen by the citizen. Emergency management requires the ability to adapt to the situation and the search for pragmatic solutions. European research confirms the capacity of stakeholders to adapt, to find ad hoc responses, both in this and in other areas. In the context of emergency management, both the authorities and the relief and response services are potentially confronted with victims or their relatives, with other minorities speaking in many other languages, including sign language. In a locally managed emergency situation, emergency authorities and services speak in the language of the affected location. It should be noted, however, that they show useful adaptability. For example, during the Buizingen train accident on February 15, 2010, involving, among other things, a train carrying many H annoyers to the capital, a French call centre in Mons came to reinforce Louvain's call centre for three days at CIC. Volunteers from the local health services answered questions from Francophones. The governor of Flemish Brabant managed the emergency situation. Its press releases were written in Dutch and disseminated to local and national media. Belga did the translation. There was no direct communication with the population as there was no residual danger to the surrounding population. The press conferences first took place in Dutch, followed by the governor in French and Dutch. He answered questions in the language of the journalist or in English. Some governors and, through them, potentially impacted municipalities, have a database of translators that can be used. In Liège, for example, municipalities were invited to help identify translation possibilities (language teachers, people living in the territory and speaking one or more of the other national or international languages, prosecutors' translators, etc.).). The police services have a database of sworn translators in court proceedings. The managing authority could appeal against this. Other solutions exist via Foreign Affairs or via the European Commission, which propose to make their translators available, which they also do spontaneously, as was the case during the attacks of 22 March. Finally, it should be stressed that disciplines 2 (for medical, health and psychosocial assistance) and 5 (for information to the population) have a national structure organized at the national and local level, and thus a mono-disciplinary emergency plan. They participate in the management of emergencies in the federal phase and can also assist local authorities in Dutch and French, if possible in German and English. The leaflets published and distributed in both Zaventem and Brussels as part of the plans of 22 March were published in the three national languages and in English. In addition, any local authority facing an emergency situation can now quickly make available to the population an information number via an operational multilingual contact centre within the hour, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, set up by the Crisis Centre. It can also count on the support of Team D5, pool of communicators from across the country. We also welcome the resilience of the population and its capacity for self-protection in that it offers its own initiative in emergency situations, in particular for translations into languages spoken live or via the social networks of the people involved. Emergency management is everyone's business. It must be able to rely on solidarity and citizen support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u140	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're telling us two things. Firstly, fortunately, there is still the intelligence of the operators on the ground who, of course, do not care what language regime applies to their communications, regardless of where the event occurs, and who ensure, depending on the linguistic affiliations or origin of the victims' homes, that they communicate in the language of the persons to be rescued or of the families to be helped. Secondly, empiricism in such cases is to be encouraged, but it would be even better to provide a legal framework which would guarantee, on the one hand, that the information sites offer guarantees of multilingualism – I have just given you concrete examples where this is not the case – and, on the other hand, that in all cases there is a real obligation, not goodwill, not the possible availability of those who can manifest themselves at the pace of events, which guarantees the equality of information in all the languages of the country in relation to the importance of this type of event. That seems very reasonable to me. Perhaps I will take the initiative of a bill to move in that direction. I believe that this would be a legal step that would reinforce the field experiments and finally give an obligation of result to all the operators concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u141	Mr President, Minister, the technical liability fund of the IRE presents structurally different problems. Minister Marghem announced that various measures will be implemented to ensure the removal of radioactive waste (including from the past) to ensure site safety and the development of solutions for the stock of enriched uranium (Doc. 2111/012, page 23 ). As far as nuclear safety and security are concerned, you will understand that in order to investigate this matter, I turn to the minister responsible for nuclear safety and security. Can you make a point of the situation, of the various problems that arise, of their magnitude and, above all, of what you have put in place to solve these problems, according to what timetable and by mobilising what budget amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u142	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the question about IRE's technical liability fund and the management of radioactive waste in IRE is quite broad. We will therefore focus exclusively on our field of competence, namely nuclear safety. We are not in a position to answer you, particularly on budgetary aspects. The state of the nuclear safety situation will be developed according to two themes related to the liability fund of the technology: the management of standard radioactive waste and the management of irradiated uranium from IRE production. With regard to the management of standard radioactive waste, approximately five years ago, AFCN had observed a significant accumulation of radioactive waste at IRE and had imposed on the operator the implementation of a remediation plan for the disposal of historical radioactive waste and the establishment of structural disposal solutions for routine radioactive waste. Since then, important actions have been taken by the IRE. Most of the historical radioactive waste has been disposed of. What remains will be soon. And the routine radioactive waste generated is currently safely managed by IRE. An unannounced inspection of the AFCN carried out in October 2016 confirms the progress made by the IRE in the management of standard radioactive waste. As regards the management of irradiated uranium produced at the IRE site, it is currently stored in IRE facilities under satisfactory safety conditions, but AFCN and its Scientific Council requested IRE, in 2013, to develop a structural solution for the disposal of irradiated uranium present at the facilities, in order to avoid an unacceptable accumulation of irradiated uranium in IRE facilities. From the point of view of AFCN, the IRE is currently working with the IRE Technical Liabilities Monitoring Committee to define this structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u143	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will analyse in depth. I take note that on the budget side, it is your colleague Marghem who is competent. I will therefore address her shortly. But on the safety side, I'll come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u144	Minister, on 5 December last, an operator of NTP Europe in Fleurus was exposed to a dose of radioactivity during manipulation. The follow-up sheet indicated that the device was empty, unloaded from its radioactive source. The operator has therefore begun its handling. It was then that the radioactive source was partially removed from the apparatus. Fortunately, the operator's electronic dosimeter immediately alarmed itself, so that it immediately left the premises. What dose did the worker have to undergo? Have there been any other developments in security operations? Why such an incident could have occurred when, a few days earlier, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency had declared that the company was not complying with certain safety requirements and that it could no longer guarantee a sufficient level of nuclear safety. In addition, she had ordered him to cease immediately all his operations. Has this new incident been classified on the INES scale? When was the date of the previous inspection of the AFCN within this company? What are the previous offences that have already been identified? Were they classified on the INES scale? Why could the December 5th incident occur when this company had to have ceased its production activities? What lessons do you learn from this incident when a production ban has already been imposed? Finally, why did the AFCN not inform of the imposition of the December 2 cessation of activities until December 12, ten days after the imposition and seven days after the incident? What did it take to wait or hide for the decision not to be published more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u145	Mr Nollet, on 5 December last, an operator of NTP Europe in Fleurus was exposed to a low dose of radioactivity during a maintenance operation on a gammagraphy apparatus. The dose received by the person concerned on his working day of 5 December amounts to 10 microsieverts. By comparison, the maximum limit for workers in the nuclear sector is 20 millisieverts per year – a dose 2000 times higher than the one discussed here. The safety operations of the radioactive source apparatus required the intervention of two other people, exposed to a dose of 7 and 3 microsieverts, respectively. After analysis, this event was ranked at level 1 on the INES scale. NTP Europe has committed several regulatory infringements in recent years. As a result, AFCN drafted a VP and warned the company that progress in the safety culture was essential. NTP has had several opportunities to comply with the regulations, but an adequate response is still pending. Since March 2016, NTP has been under enhanced surveillance. This implies an intensification of the inspections of AFCN and Bel V, which go there, at least once a week. The requirement to stop operations issued by the AFCN was made in two stages. On 2 December 2016, AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V conducted a final inspection at NTP Europe. The inspectors found that, despite repeated warnings, the situation had not improved and the risks of contamination and irradiation were significant. AFCN has therefore ordered the company to stop all production operations. However, NTP Europe could still receive containers, unload radioactive sources, maintain them and send them to other sites for reloading. On December 5, 2016, the incident in question, during a maintenance operation, led AFCN to also stop the unloading operations of the containers. The last inspection therefore took place on 2 December. With regard to previous offences, it is not for AFCN to issue information, since it is included in the minutes and can therefore be subject to criminal prosecution. With regard to the communication, a distinction should be made between the time when an event is notified to AFCN or other competent authorities by the operator on the following field or working day – depending on the severity of the event – and the time when that event is classified on the INES scale. Classification on the INES scale is based on a documented analysis by both the operator and the Safety Authority. In order to properly classify an event on the INES scale, according to the INES manual, several data must be collected: for example, the availability of redundant systems, the analysis of additional factors that have played a role in an incident, such as possible training or procedural failures, etc. These operations require some time. A delay of several days between the occurrence of an event and its publication on the AFCN website is therefore not abnormal and conforms to the usual time limit for publication of INES events in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic554x.u146	Mr. Minister, what I have a problem with this issue is that I have the impression that the Agency has waited too long. You list the number of times the Agency had to make remarks, intervene or carry out inspections, and each time this was a problem. It can even be said that on December 2, it withdraws approval on production but that was not enough and there was another incident on December 5, and then it stops everything! Temporarily anyway. I believe that what has happened in this undertaking must really call on the Agency to act more firmly, faster, without contributing to disaster. You see the chain, you sensed things coming and the incident took place on the 2nd and the 5th. As far as the publication of the information is concerned, I understand what you are saying in relation to INES. It takes time to analyze whether it is INES 1 or INES 2. The 5 incident is classified as INES 1. Why, on December 2, when the Federal Agency makes the decision to ban production, is there no information to the public? In my view, this is part of the pressure on society to take these things into account. It's making production ban decisions public. It is legitimate for citizens to know that this company is temporarily banned from production. But to do this, we have to wait for the 12th! However, this does not require any INES classification, it is a pure decision of the Federal Agency. She takes it on the 2nd and only communicates it on the 12th, the day she also communicates about the incident on the 5th. Now I don't understand. I understand for the INES classification. But why did she publish the ban that fell on the 2nd only on the 12th? I don't understand.
