ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u2	(For the standing Assembly)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u3	(In the Assembly standing) Ladies and gentlemen, today we say goodbye to the military commander of the National Palace, Major General Harry Vindevogel, who will resign on 1 October 2016. Harry Vindervogel was born in Oudenaarde on August 8, 1957. In 1975 he was admitted to the 130th polytechnic promotion of the Royal Military School. He successfully completed his studies at the end of 1980 and obtained the diploma of civil engineer. In 1981, he moved to the 230rd Company in Propsteierwald, as platoon commander. In 1983 he became a rehearsal at the Royal Military School. After the training course for senior officer, he was given responsibility for the management of military wheeled vehicles by the Army staff in the Equipment and Logistics section between 1990 and 1994. As a major, he obtained the higher staff licence at the Royal Higher Institute of Defence in 1995. In 1996, Harry Vindevogel was selected to attend higher military studies at the Collège Interarmées de Défense in Paris. As a result, he was appointed military professor in the "Defence Problems" Department of the Royal Superior Defence Institute. At the end of 1997, he was promoted to lieutenant-colonel. In mid-1999, he became Chief of the Studies sub-section of the Land Staff Plans and Programs section of the Land Staff. From August 2002 to February 2003, he attended the Senior Course at the NATO Defence College in Rome. He was promoted to a colonel there. In September 2003, he was attached to the Prime Minister's strategic cell as a military adviser. On June 27, 2008, Major General Harry Vindevogel became the 32nd commander, also Rector, of the Royal Military School. On 1 April 2014, he was appointed military commander of the National Palace. Based on his experience with Defense, General Vindevogel has made a tactful and efficient effort to ensure Parliament's security and to manage seconded personnel. Unfortunately, the past year has been tumultuous in terms of security: the false bomb threat, the increased monitoring of the increased level of terrorism, the tragic attacks at Brussels national airport and in the Brussels metro. All this gave the military police and our internal security services a lot of headaches. The flexibility and vigilance of the men under General Vindevogel's leadership have been put to great strain in recent months: they have had to change their working habits and make additional efforts. I am well aware that this situation has not always been obvious to everyone and that it has certainly also had an impact on the privacy of the staff concerned. Despite these difficult circumstances, the members of the Military Detachment have always performed their duties with all due seriousness, kindness and loyalty. I would therefore like to thank General Vindevogel again for the correctness of his discernment and his valuable cooperation in this vast undertaking. Everyone is therefore pleased to have a soundly efficient safety framework and we are convinced that his successor will follow the same path. In the name of the Chamber, I would like to sincerely thank you, General Finderbird, for what you have done for us. Your incessant commitment, as well as your kindness and even your equanimity in sometimes dragging political discussions, will be with us for days. We wish you every happiness in your future life! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to introduce briefly our new military commander. Colonel-stafbrevethouder Axel Desfossés was born in Berchem on May 14, 1963. Colonel Desfossés was particularly distinguished during his service at the headquarters of the International Security Assistance Force of ISAF in Afghanistan in 2003 and 2008. As Deputy Commander of the Brigade in Bourg-Léopold, in 2009 he was responsible for operations in the first European Battle Group led by Belgium. He was then active in the Staff Strategy Department. I wish him every success on his new mission on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u5	You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. Are there any comments on this? Is there any comment on this? The agenda has therefore been adopted. Accordingly, the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u6	Mr President, on the order of business, we have learned in the press that agreement has been reached on pension reform for Members. A debate is under way in various parliaments. I would like to know if the item would soon be put on the agenda of the plenary meeting. Not all political groups are represented at the group leaders' meeting. I would therefore like you to commit yourself to having a debate in this House on this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u7	Mr Hedebouw, indeed, a conference of Presidents of Parliaments took place and laid the foundations for reaching an agreement next month. What was agreed was that the clerks of the various parliaments in that country should draft a text, which should be ready around 21-22 September. The Bureau, the Conference of Presidents and your group will then be informed of this agreement. The discussion will then continue in the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Assemblies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u8	Mr President, will the agreement be voted on in plenary? Or is that not being presented to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u9	It is a matter for decision in the Bureau of the Chamber and in the Pension Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u10	I would like to discuss that here, Mr President. Perhaps you could take my question with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u11	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a little less than a year ago, when the government came back on the second Tuesday in October, you were saying to us like a mantra "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" Today, therefore, it is our parliamentary re-entry and if we were talking about a black Friday, only a short time ago, for Charleroi, it is a real "black September" that we are dealing with: 2 200 jobs abolished at Caterpillar, 850 at AXA, 300 at P&V, 40 at Eurostation, 274 at Douwe Egberts, a company council at ING, where we risk, again, announcing job losses not to mention the bankruptcy of MS Mode. I repeat, it is a real "black September" for employment in Belgium. In this regard, the absolute indecency of Caterpillar, the anger and emotion caused by these tragedies, should not cause us to forget that these dismissals are taking place in an atmosphere of poor economic health in our country. Beyond the decisions of these multinationals, beyond Caterpillar's decision, the right-wing policies you have been pursuing for the past two years do not revive the economy, do not boost growth, do not boost employment. In this respect, it is important to refer to the Eurostat figures published two days ago, which show that Belgium is the real anchor of the European class in terms of employment growth. There are only two European countries: Finland and Croatia. You'll excuse me, but out of 28, it's still catastrophic! In this context, Prime Minister, we do not need warlike words. We need action! One of your government partners says that it is necessary to facilitate the dismissal of those who actually defend workers in the company (a bill is on the table in parliament today and should be taken into consideration). The main representative of a party in your government says that Charleroi is sad, but that we will not go back to the reform of pre-pensions – while what we are asking is that the treatment that was applied to Genk be applied to Charleroi. Another partner of your government makes flexibility its political start. We're worried. The workers are afraid. It is not with compassion or emotion that jobs will be created, and the social dramas that the country is experiencing today will be accompanied. Prime Minister, we told you: it is at the foot of the wall that we see the mason. We therefore ask you for commitments. I told you in committee: make commitments to the workers. This has not been done, according to the workers' statements. Do you accept that the pre-pension system is subject to exceptions for Caterpillar workers, as was the case for Genk? Will you support, as you have been asked, the proposals introducing a right of information and alert for workers; the proposals strengthening the Renault procedure to better protect workers; the proposals prohibiting redundancies and allowing public aid to be recovered; and, finally, the proposals to extend collective redundancies negotiations to workers in subcontractors? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u12	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we have learned with dismay the loss of jobs at Caterpillar and the decision that would have been made within the government to prevent some people from benefiting from pre-pension. Your government would have decided to apply the law, which means that the age requirement is 56 years. It is felt as a profound injustice by the workers of Caterpillar, knowing that following Ford Genk, the workers had been able to benefit from the pre-pension at the age of 52 and a half. This involved 23 per cent of the staff, or 1,369 workers. We also know that Caterpillar benefited from a restructuring in 2013. Some workers at the age of 56 had been pre-pensioned. This means that there are still many workers over 50 years of age. This explains the union's demand to lower the age of pre-pension, because at 50, even if you are still young in life, you are no longer so when you have to look for work. Prime Minister, is this information in the press correct? If so, why did your government make such a hard decision for the workers in Caterpillar, in the south of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u13	"Injust, cruel, baseless and revolting." These are the words you spoke, Prime Minister, the day after the announcement of the intention of the American bosses of Caterpillar to close the company located on the Gosselies site. Prime Minister, fifteen days after this announcement, it is time to move from words to deeds. I still hear you say in this rostrum your slogan "jobs, jobs, jobs". Today, I invite you to go back to the gallery to tell us what you are going to do in practice for the 2,100 workers in Caterpillar who have lost their jobs and for the 4,000 subcontractors who have also lost or are going to lose their jobs. What levers are you going to activate? What measures will you take for the workers of Caterpillar, but also in a more global way. Indeed, further closures and bankruptcies were announced this morning. In this parliamentary year, we are far from the slogan "jobs, jobs, jobs" that you were defending. Let me now turn to what you said last Saturday: "we are touching the limits of the system". Prime Minister, we don't touch the limits of the system, we've gone far beyond them. It is neither normal nor acceptable that, for several years, a company may see its turnover, sales decrease, but also its dividends increase steadily; it is neither normal nor acceptable that a company that has received years of direct or indirect aid for employment or via taxation may overnight put the key under the mat, without explanation nor even a word of consideration to the workers. Here too, we will not be satisfied with your comments. We're waiting for action. If this system has reached its limits, what are you going to do? What steps are you going to take? What are you going to do to change this economic model that hurts workers and the environment? What concrete actions do you propose in the face of this admission of bankruptcy of the economic system, which is yours and which you have defended for too long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, the announcement of the closure of the Caterpillar site follows only our sympathy and empathy for those affected by this terrible decision. The question now is how best to help those involved. It is primarily up to the unions to play their role locally in the enterprise, to fight for employment. It's not just Caterpillar. After all, there was a number of other announcements today. It is now up to the unions to fight for every job, to try to save it. We must support that. Secondly, if this fails, it is up to the trade unions to agree a social plan, which will help the people affected to the best possible extent. The third step is activation. That is the government's mantra, and it has already been pointed out. We are indeed pursuing a different policy than we did years ago when older people were dumped into passivity. We will not go for that; we will go for the search of jobs and the activation of older people. Only in this way will we ultimately improve our employment and keep social security financially viable. The government's working on that, too. Last year we experienced the biggest growth in employment since 2011, with 37 500 jobs added. However, if we lose employment by a slap like with Caterpillar, it will hit us with the sledgehammer, while the new jobs will only be added with a small brush. That's not visual, but those are the naked figures from the end of last year. Next year we must also be able to present figures of this kind. That is the government's commitment and we must continue to work on it. It is therefore a wrong signal, ladies and gentlemen, to tell people of 50 years of age that they have been written off, that they have been done and that they will end up in the passivity with a benefit. Forty years, there has been a misguided policy of early retirement, because it has only led to a high level of unemployment, both among the elderly and among young people. We fit in, we go for activation. In the Group of Ten, the social partners themselves agreed on a clear path up to 2020 to gradually increase the age for early retirement. I trust that they will keep their word and that they will respect the agreed 56-year limit and the growth path. My question to the government is whether it will also respect that path of growth. Let us go further together on the path of activation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have experienced a hot summer in the business environment, with Caterpillar, AXA, P&V and Douwe Egberts. Each time it concerns families, thousands of people, whose father and/or mother come home and have to tell their children that they no longer have a job. This has been the case in Limburg. I remember the closure of the mines in 1987, when I was seven years old and my father came home with black under the eyes and said that there was no more work and that the mines would close. Limburg also experienced the closure of Ford Genk, where thousands of families ended up on the street again without a job. However, Limburg has overcome this situation. Limburg's doing better. Limburg is doing better thanks to its activation. Look at Ford Genk and his employees, half of whom are back at work. However, also look at the business environment. Investments in SMEs are again being made. Prime Minister, that is my message. After all, I fit in with the solution of the PS. I do not participate in the literal dumping of workers in certain systems where they can no longer get out. I believe in activation. I believe that we must accompany Caterpillar's employees one by one, just like we did with Ford Genk. Prime Minister, I do not want decisions to be taken in America or China. I don't want a button pressed from America. I want companies that are rooted here in Belgium, in Flanders. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, what we are going to do. The social agreement is not here. There's a lot of work on the shelves. I am thinking of the reform of the labour market and the reduction in labour costs. 4 000 jobs have been lost since September, but 46 000 jobs have also been added this year. Nor should we forget that message. So we are on the right track, but the work is not done. My question is what we are going to do next.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, about a year ago you gave a press conference on the main theme of the tax shift, which would provide jobs, jobs and jobs. You reduced the burden on employers, but it's the workers who have to pay. You raised the invoices, there was an index jump and a reduction in the wage increase. And what do we see today, with Caterpillar, AXA, P&V, IMB, Printing Partners, Douwe Egberts, MS Mode? And I can go on like this, because it's like the list's getting longer every hour. Prime Minister, the situation is serious. We are talking about more than 4 000 people, and I am not talking about suppliers. I hear Mr Lachaert and Mrs Demir saying that we are doing well, that jobs are being created. Well, Belgium has created 1% jobs in the last year. Are you proud of that? Twenty-one European countries lead us. Only Croatia and Finland are doing worse. So I don't think it's a result to be proud of. Prime Minister, I can only conclude that the efforts you have requested have failed to save the jobs and have failed to deliver sufficient jobs. You may now be waving figures from the Planning Bureau and from the National Bank, but you should know that the people at the factory gates have no message of that. People want job security and they didn't get it. Instead, they have been given caps, caps, caps, but that is not what they asked for. In the last summer, extensive discussions were held on corporate taxation, which should give more certainty to our employers so that they can create more jobs. All they have left is even more uncertainty. The workers have been given uncertainty and the employers have been given just as much. Prime Minister, how big should the wake-up call be? What will you do to bring stability and security back to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u17	Prime Minister, last week we had a fairly long exchange about the situation in Caterpillar. You have been extremely firm in your way of condemning the social violence and brutality of the Caterpillar leadership today. While the Charleroi region is now facing this social, economic and human earthquake, it is becoming increasingly clear that this issue is not linked to a lack of attractiveness or competitiveness in our country, but rather to a strategic and commercial error in Caterpillar's leadership. The land of Charlerloi alone? No. It really is a decision that affects the whole country: 40% of subcontractors are indeed Flemish. We talked about it again today in the Conference of Presidents. It is necessary to request that Caterpillar provide an explanation to the federal Parliament. We have given a mandate to the Speaker of the House, President Van Quickenborne and President Delizée to obtain, as part of their forthcoming meeting with Caterpillar's leaders, an opportunity to see them explain themselves to Parliament. You made it clear, during the exchange we had last week, that we were going to fight. Indeed, you have made arrangements to rely on a lawyer's service. The federal government will not hesitate, if certain facts are found, to take the path of the courts to attack the Caterpillar leadership. It is not through polemics that we will do the best we can in this situation. We must continue to mobilize through our policies, which create private employment as never before. There have been no such proportions of business start-ups in our country for a long time. The unemployment rate is extremely low, at a level at which it had not been for a long time. Of course, we must continue in this direction. You used very strong words when talking about sacred union. You held a joint meeting yesterday with the Walloon Minister-President and with the Caterpillar management in order to receive some explanations. It is through this joint approach that we will be able, by announcing colour, but without revealing all the cards, to obtain the most in this situation in terms of social support, social plan and conversion. Finally, Mr President, it is clear that questions also arise concerning sacred union and the mobilisation of policies, on the measures and arrangements to be taken at European level. When a company relocates its activities to Grenoble while they could have continued in Charleroi, this raises the question of European competition. But we will also need to mobilise the European Union from social funds. All regional and federal actors must ask Europe to fully mobilise, with means, on the situation in Caterpillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u18	Prime Minister, it is September 15th and yet this month is already the scene of a frightening social carnage: Caterpillar, 2,200 jobs not counting indirect jobs; Axa, 650 jobs; P&V, 300 jobs; Eurostation, 40 jobs; Dana Belgium, 40 jobs; Printing Partners, hundreds by 2021... And today alone, Prime Minister Douwe Egberts, 274 jobs; about 50 at Halliburton and 220 at MS fashion. So you say "jobs, jobs, jobs," I see "C4, C4, C4". I hear about sacred union, but to do what? To say Caterpillar, it's already heard and buried, let's prepare for the future? Is this the sacred union or rather to keep the tool in Caterpillar? This is where the real demarcation line lies. So my first question is this: do you, yes or no, have a plan to maintain production in Gosselies? If so, what does this plan involve? My second question relates to the seizure or requisition of the Gosselies plant. The PTB defends the use of this threat. Even in your own party, we're talking about requisition. My question will be simple, too. What is your own position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we had a first exchange in committee, which was worthy and thorough, following this dramatic intention which was announced cruelly, brutally and totally disgustingly. To put it clearly, we have undertaken a response approach with the Walloon government to try to see how we can be as useful as possible. Our top priority is to carry out a strategy of industrial conversion of the site. A few days after the announcement of this intention, it seems to me that it is not necessary to put the plough before the ox, but to work in an orderly and methodical manner. This means that, in the context of phase 1 of the Renault law, everyone knows, it is necessary to give all the capacity, including in terms of legal, accounting and financial expertise, to the organisations which represent the workers of Caterpillar, but also the subcontractors, to resort to that phase in order to force Caterpillar to be part of a strategy of conversion. The aim is to limit job losses as much as possible. You know that a majority of Caterpillar workers are between 35 and 45 years old. We have indeed received more precise information on the age pyramid within this society. It seems to me crucial to offer a perspective to all workers who are either directly or indirectly - in the case of subcontractors - affected by this tragedy. I would like to provide you with some additional information. This Monday, we held a meeting with the Walloon government and the unions. We have formalized this idea of coordinating together all operations alongside workers by relying on a strategy of conversion. We will analyse all the legal means available in this regard. In the light of the principles of law, we must determine how we can, in an offensive way, walk on foot, force Caterpillar to fully assume its responsibilities in terms of reconversion and through the social plan. Mr Massin, at our meeting with the unions, they fully understood, contrary to what you say, that there was timing management. With regard to the social plan, which opens legitimate political debates, I would point out that the previous government has participated in such discussions in Parliament on the extension of the age requirement to the RCC-SWT, which it has raised to fifty-four years. The current government has extended this condition by one year. When the time comes, the government will have to talk to the unions about social arrangements, but I do not want to give a response today that would make Caterpillar's life easier on this issue. We're in a negotiation, not yet in the social phase. We're in phase 1 of the Renault plan and we're already going to indicate and put on the table a relief of the social bill for Caterpillar. That would be an absurd attitude! I would like briefly to say two more things. We have had many exchanges of views on the economic strategy here in the past. I do not dispute that these are particularly difficult times. It's not just about Caterpillar. There are other examples, in other sectors. But we must also be clear. We have chosen to reduce the burden on labour and, contrary to what is sometimes said, concrete results have been achieved. It's not the government study department that says that, but that's what the Planning Bureau and the National Bank say. 70 000 jobs have been created since October 2014. Those are the facts! And yes, we will continue courageously to consider job creation as the core of our political project to ensure social protection. There will be difficult times, as there have been in the past too. Some mentioned it, with ArcelorMittal, Ford Genk... these were painful, complex, difficult moments. There are two ways of looking at things: either resignation, downfall, sense of fatality in an extremely unfair world; or the will to roll up the sleeves and act with the workers, with the government to overcome this issue. The European project also has a role to play. Mr Ducarme, more industry in Europe is crucial. Our country has always fought with the Länder for strategic European support for industrial projects at European level. You all know, as I do, the institutional reality in Europe: some large countries in Europe are acting as cool lovers in this respect, because they choose their own economic interests. They are not really asking for an industrial strategy at European level. I will continue, together with all my colleagues, to act also at European level to perfect, improve and consolidate an industrial strategy, which is very deficient at the moment. It is in this sense that we also wanted to launch an investment strategy in Belgium and Europe to try to complete the strategy for jobs and growth and to fight foot on foot to ensure that we are up to the challenges we face. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u20	Prime Minister, if today I am disappointed with your answer, it is neither dramatic nor serious. The only problem is that there are 2,200 workers who are disappointed with your answers! You seem to say that trade union organisations do not all speak the same way. It's simple, read the press the next day! They all announced it! They all said: "We expect answers from the federal government! We must have commitments on the part of the federal government in relation to the social plan!" And today there is no answer! You leave 2,200 workers plus the 4,000 subcontractors on the tile! Yet their request is legitimate, namely to make an exception. You fall behind this so-called thing that must not be done: facilitate Caterpillar's life. You heard them, Americans! You heard them yesterday! What did they say? "We won't go back." That's all. These statements are in the press, Prime Minister. Besides, you're talking about sacred union. The PS group has suggested four bills that allow you - to go in the same direction as your speech - to make room for these abusive dismissals, which are heinous. I have no answer in this regard. If you really want a sacred union, show voluntarism and agree on these four proposals!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u21	Prime Minister, I hear you want to work in order. That makes sense! But you did not answer the question I asked, how are you going to reassure the workers very quickly? Prime Minister, my party is asking you, in all the negotiations that you will undertake, that you negotiate fully as a Prime Minister, without letting yourself be influenced by the N-VA, which has another philosophy as to how to solve the problems. Prime Minister, I ask you to negotiate with Caterpillar's bosses to obtain emergency schemes so that all workers who are in arrears can benefit from special measures and not be confronted with unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u22	Prime Minister, what a paradox! What a paradox to hear you talk today about investment plans worth tens of billions of euros while, for the past year, together with other colleagues from the Ecolo-Groen Group (Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet), we have this desire to see your government translate into reality the need in Belgium for multi-annual investments. Having said that, at the beginning of this parliamentary session, I want to be positive as you finally seem to give a new inflection to your policy. Yes, we have to go to Europe. Yes, we must go to other countries to tell them that without investment, we will not be able to give prospects for the future, not only to those who lose their jobs today, but also to all the young people who look at us, look at you, look at your government. They wonder what the prospects are when you've been in power for two years now and you've been focusing on austerity measures. So I say yes to the investment plans you are planning. It is also a paradox to hear you defend here the benefits, the virtues of the Renault law by saying that time must be given. Today, we are in phase 1 of this plan and you are saying that you are going to let it happen while your government agreement plans to empty the Renault law and its phase 1 of its substance. Prime Minister, I hope that this is an inflection and not just words, that the actions will follow and that you will also remove this point from your government policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u23	Prime Minister, the three previous speakers asked you for answers, but in their replies I found very few alternatives to what the government is doing. On the one hand I hear a very populist discourse to let everyone go with a bridge pension from 50 years old. But then they live in Wallonia of the government and of Mr Massin's PS. That's what we're gonna do. On the other hand, I find a paradox in Mr Nollet's statements, which call for investment and more money to be spent, while he may ask you about budgetary discipline later. I think it is clear, Prime Minister, that the course you are heading should simply be maintained. You just have to keep doing what you're doing. Last year's employment figures show it. Work on an interesting investment climate, work on activation, make sure there are jobs and please get rid of Mr Massin's culture, who wants to tell us that who is 50 years old has been written off and has to be dumped, so that we don't have to look at it anymore. We're not going for that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Mr Massin, I find it incomprehensible what you and your party are saying here. I don't understand! Your party has been in the various governments for 25 years and is now weeping for what happened at Caterpillar. It's a tragedy, it's bad, but what stopped you from doing the Hartz reforms that Germany has done? Why didn't you? You've had the chance for 25 years. Look at Spain. A number of years ago flexibility was introduced there and a labour market was created there. You had the chance for 25 years. (Loud protest from the PS) You, too, Mrs Detiège. (Protests from Mrs Detiège) Our government will do what it has to do. She'll do what people expect. What do people want? People want a job. [[Tumult]] Mr Prime Minister, once again, we are on the right track. Please let us continue along this path. Let us work on the reforms. Let us look at the labour market and also reform corporate taxation. That is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u25	Prime Minister, many people who have heard you today will probably wonder whether you have followed the news. After all, it's not just about Caterpillar. The previous speakers have listed the entire laundry list. I am sure that you know that laundry list, and yet you continue to say that you are doing well, that nothing needs to be changed and that you want to continue along this path. Once again, Prime Minister, I would like to call for the necessary security and stability. Mr Lachaert, we are also in favour of activation. You might be surprised. Instead of calling here, if you want to activate those jobseekers, you need to make sure that employers want to hire them. These job seekers have worked and contributed through social contributions. If they do not find an employer who wants to hire them, what should we do? Should we leave these people to their fate? Activating is good, but make sure that there are employers who want to hire them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u26	Prime Minister, you made it clear. [[brouhaha]] Let's calm down! This is an important debate, let us keep all the necessary dignity. You're telling us that it's not going to make Caterpillar's management easier or lighten his bill. You confirm the exchanges we have had in committee and your willingness to remain fully mobilized. We in this Parliament will also remain mobilized in this way, in order to continue, as has been agreed, to discuss this matter with you in the committees. Mr Massin, I beg you, let us not reduce this social and human drama to political games. You spoke on behalf of the 2,200 workers in Caterpillar. You said they were disappointed. Mr Massin, the workers of Caterpillar belong to no one. They are free and we want to defend them at best, beyond any ideological divide. Some, in the PS, in Wallonia, at the head of the government, understood the need, in the face of dramas of this magnitude, to work together. Mr Prime Minister, we ask you to continue to mobilise the European Union, and even to force it to make a little more effort in terms of industrial strategy and to fight against this completely unacceptable competition. We know that Mrs Thyssen is listening to us and we are also counting on her mobilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u27	Prime Minister, your answer is frightening. I've given you a list of all the companies that are deleting jobs this month. What's your answer? "We need to reduce the cost of work." You repeat this in a loop. But all the companies I quote from you have benefited from your measures to reduce labour costs, like Caterpillar and the others. They have benefited from reductions in social contributions. They have benefited from professional discount exemptions. They have benefited from notional interests. They have benefited from the effect of the index jump decided by your government. Prime Minister, do you ever question yourself, question the dogma that there is a labour cost problem? Caterpillar had no labour cost problem. This company makes profits, including in Gosselies. His only concern is to insure up dividends for 22 consecutive years and to be able to continue to increase dividends year after year. That's what Caterpillar's problem is. Your policy, including your austerity policy, reduces people's incomes and increases dividends. It's time to change software, Prime Minister. This is the opposite: to increase people's incomes and reduce dividends. Because, Prime Minister, the problem is not the cost of work. The problem is the cost of capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, summer has been particularly hot, in every sense of the word, since the minds have heated in your majority. There have been strong statements by all political parties about the Patriot Act, the burkini saga, the screwdrivers announced in social security or health care, taxation, etc. Here we go in every direction. Banana skins have been glided and short-circuiting has been fomented between government colleagues. Yet the situation is serious. It has just been recalled that the socio-economic situation is extremely difficult. The sum of all the jobs lost since June, and especially those resulting from collective redundancies, amounts to a staggering total of 10,000. At your budget level, $2.4 billion to be found in 2017 – after $1.3 billion yet to be released in 2016 – not to mention $8 billion in 2018. When we look at your investment plan announcement again, you announce several tens of billions of euros. The contours are very blurred, no information is available. That's a lot of speech. But where are the acts? In the area of job security, the haemorrhage continues. We're talking about the cost of work. It is true that much needs to be done in terms of the competitiveness of enterprises. But don't any other reason explain such a haemorrhage? Has this been analysed? What urgent answers should be given? What investment plan? Today, so much better if you row in the same direction to loosen this fiscal straitjacket? Do you have an agreement with the European Union? If so, what will be the methodology to move forward and decide quickly? Finally, what is the status of the budget work? It's the nerve of war. After a summer that seemed to me to be essentially an election campaign by the government's partners, I would now like to know where the acts are?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u29	Prime Minister, first of all, you must keep your troops in line. My question is entirely in the philosophy of national unity and pulling it together. I have just heard parliamentarians of the majority dismiss the families and employees affected by Caterpillar as lazy people and as workers who want to receive a bridge pension as soon as possible. I regret that. I have just heard from a Member of your majority, Mr Kitir, that she has to go back to Morocco. [[Rumor]] So I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u30	Colleagues, Mr Calvo, may I have a moment? Mr. Laaouej, wait. If it is true, I repeat: if it is true, what Mr Calvo has just pointed out here is that Members of Parliament are throwing at other Members of Parliament certain unpleasant phrases, I can only describe it as inappropriate. If it is true, I would ask those concerned to apologise to the Member they have addressed. Mr Calvo, you have the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my appeal to you is really to keep things together in difficult socio-economic times, to look ahead and to pull one handle. Mr De Roover, it was a conscious choice of our group not to talk today about all the ideas of the current majority. It was a conscious decision on this matter, and it is my question to question the Prime Minister about what was the bright spot for me in the summer. This is the intention to write a national investment plan together with the regional authorities. That's fine. After all, our group has been on the barricades for some time now calling for trains to run on time, for investments in renewable energy, and for research and development that can give workers from Caterpillar, for example, a perspective. So we're ready to contribute to that plan. However, Minister, I am a little concerned. That's why I'm asking my question. I read that the N-VA wants to let go of the balance of the budget. If that's for investment, that's fine. But if it is simply to cover Mr Van Overtveldt's mistakes, then it is not enough. We would very much like to see a national investment plan in place, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, you saw your fellow Members from the region yesterday. What's the timing? What are the investments? The plan must become concrete and give a real perspective to our citizens and our workers. I believe that at the beginning of the parliamentary year we must show a different face from that of the past few months. Are you prepared to work on this together across the borders of majority and opposition? Our group is willing to contribute to a national investment plan as from Monday, starting tomorrow, if necessary. That's what people expect from us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will find it difficult to answer all of Mrs Fonck's questions. Some of them, I believe, related to the first debate on the economic situation and the employment problem. What is the investment situation? Mr Calvo, before the summer I took the initiative to organise some consultations. Sanitation remains important to us, that is obvious and there is no doubt about it. At the same time, we are opting for structural reform, which often brings exciting debates here. We take responsibility for this, and I am thinking, for example, of the reform of health care and pensions, and of course, of the tax shift and of fiscal reform. In addition to these choices for structural reforms of our economic and social model, I believe that it is necessary to give greater support to strategic investments for the future at both European and national level. Unfortunately, the figures show that underinvestment has been taking place in Europe, and thus in Belgium, since the 1980s. Not investing means impoverishment, a debt for the next generation. That is why I started consulting discreetly and have now publicly built up a strategy and proposed a method to our fellow Members from the Länder. Allow me to make a specific comment. Yesterday, I held a first meeting where I presented the strategy, as part of a ten-page note to be shared with regional governments next week, which will be discussed in governments, and then in the consultation committees for 28 September. I will make this note available to Parliament if you so wish. What is its content? On the one hand, I propose that a number of axes be set up. These axes need to be discussed politically but also with experts from the economic, financial and academic world. Key axes in which we believe that structural investments are necessary. I am thinking, for example, of mobility, energy transition, state authority, employment, innovation and health. Of course, we are also open to dialogue with the Länder in order to define their priorities. The Consultative Committee could play a political coordinating role in this. I believe that a regular evaluation is necessary. We want to start with this immediately, with a view to 2030. That's the idea. So it's not something vague, it's not a "ballonnetje" back in politics. On the contrary, it is an impetus that I wish to give our country in the coming years to modernize our infrastructure and to modernize a number of capacities to face challenges. I come to the last point of my somewhat lengthy reply. There is indeed a European debate going on. The current situation at European level is indeed difficult, in the sense that budgetary regulation does not immediately allow for investment. However, over the last few weeks I have had a lot of discussions, including with Mr Juncker and Mr Tusk and Mrs Merkel, in which I advocated room for investment. Well, I feel that there may be a momentum in the next few weeks or months, because at European level there is growing awareness that investment will be very important. For example, we expect that the next few years will be decided to extend and double the Juncker Fund. I do believe that, beyond the political differences between us, there may be a very important issue that goes beyond the framework of a legislature, which will have to develop over several legislatures, for which an objective alliance could perhaps be reached to meet a number of fundamental challenges for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u33	Prime Minister, first of all on the investment plan, we must maintain two objectives. The first is job creation. Secondly, we must consider giving up money today if we are to earn money tomorrow. Whether it is mobility, energy, innovation through digital technology, hospitals and non-marketers, I hope that these are sectors in which we can work together to advance employment. On the other hand, Prime Minister, I would like to add to my statement on a much more political level by referring to the way your government works. You're talking about "sacred union." I have no problem with the fact that the various governments are proposing their roadmaps containing objectives to be achieved and that everyone is moving on to them. This "sacred union", however, does not even exist in your government. It's very good to come here to plead, but we want, like you, results. It is a shame to note that throughout the summer you have had a lot of palabre and that you have often argued through the press. Now, act! Finally, Mr President, I would like to express my solidarity with Meryame Kitir. Indeed, if we come to this Parliament to designate the foreigner as the enemy and responsible for all evils, I find this intolerable. I would like to greet Meryame Kitir in this regard!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, some of what you said sounds like music to us. Better late than never. However, we will not let go of the matter. I really insist that you put it into practice and, on behalf of our group, put your hands together to work on it. That's what people are expecting from us right now. A number of fellow Members have just said that the government is doing well. I'm sorry, but you can't do that anymore today. Even when it comes to job creation, our country is among the worst students of the class in Europe. I would like to look at the fellow Members of the N-VA. You were just lyrical. Mrs Demir, you said that the government is doing well and must, above all, continue. I would like to go over the list with you again: AXA, ING, Caterpillar, completed today with Douwe Egberts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u35	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u36	That is the real emergency situation, ladies and gentlemen. This is the state of emergency in which many families have been affected only in September, Mrs Demir. We will work hard on that and hope you will do the same. After all, these people are not waiting for a burkini ban. No, they hope to get another job and that social security will be there for them when they need them. They're counting on us to work on this. At least that's our ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks, I wondered whether there were any parliamentary elections this autumn, because, judging by the profiling urge of a number of fellow Members and of a number of ministers on the issue of security, there was a competition about who was the most credible, who profiled the most, who would become the market leader on the security issue. There has been talk of a state of emergency, of preventive detention by the mayor, armed administration, and so on. The proposals were fired by the coalition partners more quickly than they could really be discussed. Prime Minister, there are many reservations about this. I could ask you what is still the political weight of the Minister of the Interior, or that of the Minister of Justice. But I don't really care. What interests me much more is the effect of that profiling urge. In a society that is fearful and insecure, it is not right for democratic parties to catch each other on this issue. I believe that this injects society with extra unrest. This debate is certainly not conducive to keeping the troops motivated: the people of justice, the people of the police, the people of judicial services. I believe it has terrible evil effects. Hence my question, Prime Minister. It's a bit of a call, too. How do you intend to control this profiling urge? How do you intend to handle it? As Mr Calvo said, this is one of the things where our democracy should be able to act together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u38	Mr Bonte, you are right, security must be a priority for all of us. There is no doubt about that. I want to be concrete. We have taken many concrete decisions in the government's lap over the last few months. In these few months, we have decided on 30 measures of principle and implemented some of them. There are measures that need to be fleshed out, but we have done a great deal of work in the field of security. I also agree with you when you say that support for our security services is crucial. Our security services, I am aware of that, are under pressure: the police officers, the magistrates, the surveyors, and also our soldiers. We must do everything we can to strengthen and improve our security. 30 measures have already been taken. In the future, we will make further progress in the area of legislation on cameras and on private security services. There is a discussion in the government's bosom about the evolution of private security, in order to give more support, in particular, for our security. On the other hand, I see that this can be done, and it is logical in a democracy that the political parties of the minority or the majority defend a few ideas and proposals in relation to security. What matters to us is the concrete decisions we take in the bosom of the government. We've done a lot of work. We will remain particularly alert and committed. I hope that it will be possible to make progress, including with Parliament. It is our intention to present a concrete proposal in the following hours or days for the extension of the administrative arrest. I refer to Article 12 of the Constitution. I hope that there will be a consensus in Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I very much appreciate your emphasising the possible effects of such a debate on the motivation of the people in the field. You are, of course, the leader of a coalition composed of different parties, but if police chiefs, police officers, district officers or justice assistants have to read that a proposal is being discussed on the government table for the third or fourth time, but not approved, and that it is being brought forward again afterwards, I am thinking, for example, of the state of emergency, you may agree with me, but perhaps not publicly, that that is not a good way of working. Prime Minister, I would like to point out that many measures have been taken, but that there are a lot of issues and problems on the ground waiting for a decisive solution. You referred to the administrative arrest. Everyone is asking for that, but that point has not yet been realized. The dynamic database remains problematic. The placing of police zones remains problematic. There are police zones that still do not have access to STIB or SNCB camera networks. That's problematic. There are cities where there is still no LIVC (Local Integrated Safety Cell). There are cities that state that they will not be succeeded by the returned. Prime Minister, this country is waiting for a united, decisive and strong security policy. Let us concentrate on that. You know that in any case you have the cooperation of my party and I suspect that of other parties. Let us put the practical problems that remain and what people are working on in the front of the agenda. That's what we have to do first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it quite clear that, if my speech has just been misunderstood, I would, of course, like to apologize to everyone who has understood it differently. What I meant and wanted to explain is that I think it is right that the workers and workers at Caterpillar should be among the most performant, the most hard-working and the most productive who exist and that they should therefore be able to convince employers, whatever their origins. I wanted to give this very clearly to Mrs Kitir, because during her speech she asked the main question of who would still be willing to accept them. I have replied that they belong to the most performing employees. I have never in one way or another wanted to say what I said or intended to say. Anyone who knows me knows that I would certainly not use such words. It is not in my tongue or in my nature to say so. I have far too much respect for everyone in this House, especially Mrs Kitir. If I am therefore misunderstood, I would like to apologize to anyone who would have heard it in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u41	Thank you, Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u42	Unfortunately, Minister, in recent weeks we have received less good news from the insurance sector. Last week, AXA announced that the company will remove 650 jobs in the next two years. A little later, P&V also announced that it would in turn remove 300 jobs by 2020, albeit through natural redundancies and the natural evolution of staff. We are concerned about this evolution in the insurance sector, all the more so because the insurance sector, together with the financial sector, the banking sector, is an important sector for sustainable employment in our country and deserves due attention. One reason cited for the reorganisation in the insurance sector is the persistent low interest rates, as well as the digitisation in that sector. I wonder if there is any more going on in that sector. We must do everything we can to avoid further malaise in this sector. New European stress tests in the financial sector will also be announced at the end of this year. It's expected that Ethias wouldn't do so well in there. I hold my heart for the consequences of the results of these stress tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u44	In the spring, we in Parliament adopted a law with a package of measures to implement European directives to strengthen the insurance sector and its capital structure, to improve corporate governance and to make the sector more transparent. This was a first package of measures for this sector after the financial crisis in order to increase security and long-term solvency. Despite the package of measures, we can see that there is being reorganised. I am very concerned about this and would like to ask the following questions. Do you know of other reasons, other challenges in the insurance sector than the persistent low interest rates and digitisation in that sector? Have you had discussions with the companies concerned and with the sector? What challenges are being addressed for the insurance sector? How can the government further support the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u45	Minister, unlike the many reports of disaster about employment in recent weeks, things are actually going fairly well. Koen De Leus of BNP Paribas says that the efforts of governments are beginning to bear fruit. The trade balance is positive again. He even predicts an economic growth of 1.4 %. It calls on the government, above all, not to be discouraged and to continue its efforts, which, of course, we fully support. One of the major benefits for most companies is low interest rates. This makes it easier to invest and generally creates additional growth, but it is a problem for the insurance sector. Of course, we've known that for a long time. The low interest rates, together with long-term liabilities, often at much higher interest rates, have already caused problems and therefore a series of redundancies have now been made. Unfortunately, the numbers aren't that funny. Mr Smaers has already mentioned them. AXA deletes orbits; P&V deletes orbits. We are all also very concerned about Ethias, whose problems are not only due to low interest rates, of course. We have already taken a number of measures. For example, the guaranteed return of group insurance was linked to the long-term interest rate in order not to continue to create unrealistic expectations there. The pressure on the government will be increased, however, as is written in the press to give the insurance sector extra financial breathing space. I would therefore like to know if there are any other problems ahead. Are you talking to the sector? What's been discussed? Are additional measures planned to support the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps, Mrs Smaers, I hope, first of all, that we will be able to conduct the debate in a serene manner in cases of restructuring and slimming in the Chamber and that we will be able to act with knowledge. We have invited the management of Axa and asked for text and explanation. It concerns 650 employees out of 4 264 employees. Unfortunately, it is about collective redundancies, which are now being negotiated with the works council. We also received the management of P&V. Fortunately, this is not about collective redundancies, but about natural redundancies. Solutions are being sought to allow a total of 300 workers to be discharged in the period up to 2020. I am afraid that will not be the last dossier we will be faced with. However, I can assure you that we take every dossier very seriously. We invite the Executive Board and ask it to give its text and explanation of why it has been decided whether it will be implemented in a particular direction. We do so with a great deal of nuance and a great deal of understanding, especially for the workers who are in danger of losing their jobs. You're asking about the cause. That's a very pertinent question. Mrs Smaers, as well as Mr Klaps, who follow the sector closely, know that a number of elements are now emerging. Firstly, the low interest rate is certainly present in the file. That element should not be exaggerated and should be the sole argument for massive redundancies. That's not right. The low interest rate is one of the elements. Secondly, I would like to mention the Solvency II scheme. From Europe, there is a legitimate demand for an additional capital buffer for insurance companies, so that they do not get into trouble in the following years. Thirdly, the problems of digitisation and IT systems were also raised. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the High Council for Employment has also underlined that digitalisation may destroy jobs in a first phase, but will then also create jobs. So we should not slow down the digitalisation, but we should jump on that train. We must encourage insurers to create jobs in a positive way through digitisation. Mrs Smaers, you mentioned, fourthly, the stress tests. We maintain the necessary contacts with the National Bank to follow them closely. All these elements are put on the table to reach decisions. However, I would like to go even further. I have invited Assuralia to give us a text and explanation in the coming week and to look at how we can respond effectively to such decisions with other insurers, which I do not want to claim is that we can perform miracles or prevent restructuring. We do want to know how this market works and what the insurance companies are doing. If we need to take additional measures from the government, I would certainly like to discuss them and consider them. However, Mr Klaps, at the moment no commitment has been made or no concrete proposal has been made. I would like to add that we are finding a similar phenomenon in the banking sector. My colleague from Finance is also here now. We will also invite the banking sector to discuss how this sector deals with the impact of negative interest rates on staff. We're very concerned. We'll catch the cow by the horns. We will examine, on the basis of all the material, whether additional measures are necessary to ensure that employment and dynamism in the sector, which is very important for Belgium, the insurance sector, are given every opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u47	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is true that after the previous financial crisis, a lot of measures have been taken, which now, rightly, impose stricter requirements on the insurance sector and on the financial sector. But I also believe that we should be vigilant in the coming weeks and months for further developments in this sector. We must look with the sector at what we can do together, what we can do together and how best to guide him. In any case, I would like to thank you for the further discussion with Assuralia. I hope that there will be useful initiatives for the sector and that we will not get any more ominous messages by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. You can't do magic. No one's asking you to. There are processes that are running. Digitization does, in fact, initially reduces the number of jobs, but it also creates additional opportunities. I know a lot of people who work at home now instead of commuting far each day. That's an advantage, isn't it? Indeed, the Solvency II scheme was much needed for that sector. That puts a little pressure on employment now, and that is not fun for those who are dealing with it. I believe that our very first concern and requirement must be that the insurance companies remain solvent. If that is not the case anymore, there are no jobs left at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u49	Minister, you know that I am not at all in favour of the migration deal that the government and the rest of the European Union have concluded with Sultan Erdogan. A few days ago, however, a new, totally unacceptable application of the Turkey agreement was announced by the European Commission. Apparently, the European Union and the Member States are going to release EUR 348 million, to be precise, for the personal interview of refugees residing in Turkey under the billions agreement. This initiative has the name Emergency Social Safety Net and is sold as an economic transfer which should make the local economy thrive, but in practice it means that the refugees residing in Turkey under the agreement will receive a kind of payment card, a debit card on which a monthly payment is made that they can release freely. Minister, handing out money to refugees is contrary to the bed-bath-bath-bread principle that our government uses. Secretary of State Francken has repeatedly said in the newspapers and in committee that the government does not give money to asylum seekers, because that is not a good idea. And that is also the case; it is a bad signal and only creates an attraction for economic refugees from all over the world. So, Minister, will you refuse the European Union's initiative very consistently and vigorously? Will you oppose this in the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I may not have given all the figures, but the Emergency Social Safety Net is an initiative within the framework of the EU aid programme for refugees. We will correctly apply the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which entered into force on 6 September. It is indeed an operation with monthly payments on an electronic card, which enables refugees to meet their daily needs and livelihoods. EUR 348 million in humanitarian assistance, committed under the Refugee Facility for Turkey, will be released for this purpose. The measure will start next month, October. By early 2017, 1 million refugees, in particular the most vulnerable families, should be reached. The UN World Food Programme is responsible for the implementation of the measure, in cooperation with the Turkish Red Crescent. The advantage of this way of working, based on the experience of the UN World Food Programme, is the preservation of freedom of choice and human dignity for the families displaced and respect for the local community within which the refugees are housed, as they can supply themselves to local traders. This is fully in line with our Belgian programme. The proposal of Secretary of State Francken was nothing to pay here in Belgium, but we are trying to apply the agreement between Belgium and Turkey correctly. It concerns payments in Turkey, to help people on Turkish territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u51	Minister, I am always surprised at the speed with which you are able to say opposite things, as if they were obvious. Every time, you do things other than what you've said. Any consequence is unrecoverable. I read comments from our Secretary of State in the newspaper, criticizing Merkel's policy while the wir-schaffen-da policy is being applied here as slaves. This is the same thing. One rightly criticises the fact that it is a bad idea to give cash to refugees, but if it happens in Turkey in a shady deal with Erdogan, then you are the goodest student in the class in Europe and allow yourself to do all that. Minister, as one of the few people you probably think you are doing well with such a policy. That would only be the case if you had the ambition to win a championship hypocrisy. That is what it is all about, that the words and deeds are always the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u52	Mr President, Minister, the tensions in Congo are increasing. The question is whether or not the Congolese will elect another president in 2016. That is the commitment of the political struggle. Just before the summer recess, we adopted a resolution which was widely supported here by the assembly. Apparently, resolutions should not be left in a cabinet slide. They clearly have an impact on the ground. We are therefore not taking back any of that resolution. We naturally ask that the presidential elections take place, that there should be a national dialogue, that we should get out of the electoral pass and that this dialogue should be inclusive: majority, opposition and civil society. We also make a number of recommendations, including that, of course, money will only come when there is a good electoral calendar from Belgium. We are not soft in that resolution either. We are indeed saying that it is apparently working that individual sanctions should be imposed when elections are not being carried out or when the presidential elections are being organised. The resolution also paid off. A number of human rights activists were released during the summer. However, we noted on 20 August 2016 that the Election Commission stated that there would be no elections because of lack of resources and because of the absence of an election register. Today we read in De Standaard that there is a hair in the butter between Brussels and Kinshasa and that the ambassador in Brussels is being called back to Kinshasa. My question is as follows. Do you confirm that the Congolese ambassador was recalled? What is the official reason given for this? What about the national dialogue? A number of key characters, such as Tshisekedi and Katumbi, are not in that dialog. Doesn't that bother you? Secondly, what about the conduct of this political dialogue, including by the people? Thirdly, and finally, what have you done to incorporate the recommendations of the resolution? How do you see things evolving in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u53	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you know how concerned we are about the situation in the DRC. We recently voted on a resolution on the elections to be held in this friendly country. While, as is well known, the decision on the presidential vote has been postponed, in particular because of problems related to the preparation of the electoral lists, it seems that, even if a date is not yet set, a maxi-scrutin is being organized in that country: on the same day, the presidential election, the legislative and provincial elections and elections at the local level, if the technical and financial means permit. Our country must remain vigilant and ensure that political rights are respected during this electoral period. Indeed, a whole series of rights seem totally obvious to us, even though this is not the case in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I am thinking in particular of the right of expression, the right of access to the media, the right to peaceful assembly, the right to run for election, the transparency of campaign accounts, the right to challenge the results legally. We note that in Kinshasa, the power uses different means, different methods to restrict this political space. I will go even further: the restriction of political freedoms is being applied to the detriment of the opposition, in favour of the power in place. Minister, how can we ensure the credibility of these upcoming elections if the political rights of the opposition are not defended during this election campaign? What can Belgium and its European partners do to help the power and the opposition to establish balanced rules for fair and transparent voting, the smooth running of the campaign and the forthcoming elections? Will you encourage, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the sending of observers for the electoral process and the elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u54	Mr President, we have indeed had the opportunity to work together on the situation in the Congo. I have also appreciated the resolution which was adopted by the House and which allows us to work on a number of points. I will come to the committee on 5 October to discuss the note I have tabled on Central Africa. We will have the opportunity to return to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo as well as to the situation in Burundi. Mrs Van Hoof, I have taken a number of initiatives in response to the resolution. First and foremost, we are trying to get to a real dialogue in Kinshasa. I've seen the entire opposition in Brussels. I also have regular contact with opposition leaders in Brussels. So far there have been some attempts in Kinshasa, but perhaps not enough. We will continue along the same lines in favour of greater dialogue between the majority and opposition in Kinshasa. Secondly, as you said, the release of several political prisoners was possible. Some demonstrations were also allowed in Kinshasa and other provinces. That is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. As far as next days and weeks are concerned, I am organising a meeting tomorrow in Brussels with all the special envoys from the United States, Belgium and other partners on Congo to analyse the current situation. Next week will be the UN General Assembly. As every year, there will of course be meetings dedicated to the situation in Central Africa and the Congo. I will see my colleague the Congolese Foreign Minister. We will have discussions to see how we can make progress. It is clear today that the elections will not take place within the deadlines set. CENI confirmed this. I think we need to keep putting pressure on us to move ahead on the electoral file – perhaps not by trying to list all the new voters, but by offering for a few months the opportunity for the new voters to register, since, in Congo, voting is not compulsory and it is necessary to register on the electoral lists. We will see how to convey the message about the individual responsibility of those who attack human rights defenders or opponents. I already said that in April in Congo. There is a real individual responsibility of each of the actors. It will be necessary to consider whether to move to a higher pressure in a later phase. In conclusion, two very concrete answers to specific questions. Mrs Van Hoof, the ambassador returned to Congo in early August. We have not been notified for any reason. In August, of course, there are many possible reasons to go to Congo for the ambassador in Brussels. The situation in Congo is perhaps one of the reasons for this. As far as observers are concerned, I am very much in favour of deploying observer teams by coordinating teams at various levels, in particular European and Belgian, so as not to relive what we had experienced in 2011. However, in order to deploy observers, it is still necessary to move forward in discussions with the Congolese authorities in order to set the date of the elections. It is once this date has been set that observation missions can be organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There are indeed many steps taken, but, as you said yourself, still not enough. It is good that you yourself stress that this inclusive dialogue is very important, so that there will be no unrest in Congo and that decisions will be taken. The electoral register is always quoted. I think it is a good suggestion that people should register, set a deadline and then start the elections. Congo is important to Belgium and will remain for a while. We play an important leading role there. We provide most of the development aid from all countries there. That is why many eyes are on us from the international community. We must continue to play a leading role in all the steps that will be taken in the future. This is important for the people of Congo and for regional stability there. That is why we must respect democratic processes and the rule of law there. I wish you every success in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u56	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. The Congo is a great country in Africa. It is therefore important that things progress well. In particular, I would like to thank you for your responses regarding the establishment of a registration period and for those observers whose coordination is important. It will be necessary to ensure that these observers are present during the election but also during part of the election campaign. Finally, I think it is also important for this to happen well in the Congo, because we know how difficult our other friendly countries, Burundi and Rwanda, are to deal with. If everything goes well in the Congo, we hope it will evolve favourably in these countries. Yes, democracy is not only necessary but possible in Africa. The recent municipal elections in South Africa have shown this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u57	Colleagues, Madam Minister, clearly in the fiscal years, the government is focusing on public services and social security, which is the common heritage of all the inhabitants of this country. Again last April, during the fiscal year, you contributed hundreds of millions of savings in social security, particularly in the areas of long-term illness and incapacity for work. As part of the savings to be achieved, your firm submitted a proposal, which followed a whole procedure and which was presented on September 8th to the Management Committee of the ONEM. I would like to ask you about this proposal, before it is accepted by the government or not. First, is it correct that for the calculation of benefits, you will move from the reference salary of the last month before the risk to three months before the risk arises? Secondly, it would seem that you are no longer going to take into account seniority, tutoring, worker participation in profits and other premiums, which, however, are subject to social security charges. How can you justify this? You wouldn't take overtime into account anymore. With what motive? This is still part of the wage, there are social security contributions. Finally, the fact that you are moving from the concept of pay to the DmfA (the multiparty declaration) means that a whole series of similar periods will no longer be taken into account as at present. This is a very specific question, for example, if there is incapacity for part-time work. In conclusion, do you really think that people entering long-term sick leave, women giving birth, fathers taking paternity leave or adoptive parents are potential fraudsters? Do you find yourself honest, fair, fair to make millions of savings on their heads? In any case, I think I find these savings perfectly scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u58	Mr President, my question overlaps fairly well with that of Mrs Onkelinx. So I propose to put it down now. Minister, long-term patients are doubly worried today. First, you change the way you calculate the allowances. The reference period shall be increased to three months instead of one. A whole series of elements of remuneration fall: bonuses, overtime, benefits in kind, all fall. You're saying that some are going to win and others are going to lose. In total, you expect savings of €25 million. On average, it is clear that the sick will lose. Another area of concern is the reform on the control of patients, which comes into force on 1 October. This mode of collaboration – or control – is already worrying as such, but, in addition, there is still uncertainty about the possibility of sanctions to the key if the patient does not cooperate enough to reintegrate into the labour market. This penalty was initially withdrawn, but now we're talking about relocating it. However, it is often the employer who refuses to reintegrate people. It takes time for a patient to reintegrate, while in this system, people are put under pressure from the first month. Very little attention is given to the attending physician, etc. It's crazy enough because we "responsibilise" between quotes – I think we are chasing – the sick, but on the other hand, the employer is not responsible. In fact, contrary to what was contained in the government agreement, the idea of forcing the employer to pay for two months of illness instead of the current month was abandoned. My questions are as follows. In considering the implementation of these various measures and reforms, namely the reduction of compensation and possible sanctions, have you calculated how many patients will fall below the poverty line, knowing that at present half of the long-term patients already live below this threshold? Are you going, yes or no, to apply these sanctions against the patient, with regard to reintegration into the labour market? Finally, as a doctor, do you agree with the idea of giving a sick person time to recover? To hunt the sick after a month's absence is to leave him too short a time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. We assume that by "taking into account similar periods in the reform of invalidity benefits" (the title of your intervention), you mean the measure of stabilization of the reference wage for the calculation of allowances. If you aim to take into account similar periods when fixing the average daily remuneration, your question becomes irrelevant, since this measure does not change in any way. At the present time, the remuneration which may be taken into account in the calculation of the allowances shall be calculated on the basis of the last day provided, not the last month, before the start of the illness. This creates problems, because often the last daily payment is not representative. Indeed, some variable elements are related to salary, such as bonuses, overtime. This creates unfair situations. For example, a person who worked part-time before becoming ill received less compensation, even after having contributed full-time for 20 years. Also note the side effects! For example, sick people who try to continue working part-time are penalized and receive fewer allowances. In addition, the rules were unclear, resulting in different applications. We note that some employers were passing on overtime and others were not at all. Finally, the system is susceptible to fraud. The last daily payment can easily be handled in the declaration. All these arguments led us to want to harmonize the measurement and base the calculation on broader and stable data, namely the latest available DmfA. This is much simpler, less likely to lead to fraud and, above all, more equitable. This measure may also be beneficial to the worker, especially if he or she received a lower wage during the first months of compensation, for example because he or she tried to continue working part-time or in a less heavy and less paid job. Let me remind you that we have not withdrawn a single cent from certain minimum amounts of compensation. Maybe we've forgotten the atmosphere of the last few days. Yes, Mr Van Hees, we are indeed working on major reforms relating to long-term diseases. In particular, we are convinced that it is our duty to help people if medicine permits and to encourage them to return to work. We want support based on the remaining capacities of these people and we are continuing our work to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u60	Minister, you are moving from a period based on a calculation referring to the average daily wage to a three-month DmfA period. Your will is to achieve savings. Moreover, it was as a result of the budget work that you submitted your proposal, excluding part of the wage promised by the employee. Actually, who and what are you attacking? You are attacking the maternity and paternity allowances as well as the allowances for adoptive parents by making a package of savings on their heads. It is totally incomprehensible, as if the future parents were the ill-loved of the state. And then, in the same vein, you are dealing with long-term sickness benefits. You know, however, that those concerned are already facing a triple penalty. First of all, they're sick, and it's not very pleasant. I had taken an example by reporting 60,000 new cancer cases a year. Then, they see their earnings decline every month, until they get only 60% of their earnings. And that's what you're going to decrease again. Third, their health bills are increasing. They are multiplied by an average of 4 times. And despite the difficulty, despite the illness, most return to work as quickly as possible. 80% are already back after six months. It is on their heads that you save money by preserving the most affluent of our society. I will tell you, Mrs De Block, if you retain this measure, if the government adopts this measure, it will become one of the measures-symbols of the social brutality of this government against the weakest of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u61	The words are special, Madam Minister, because you are talking about a more equitable system to achieve an additional economic austerity of EUR 25 million. You have a certain definition of fairness. We don't share it. Basically, this government is targeting long-term patients, half of whom are below the poverty line. You have not calculated the effects of your policy. You should study the impact of your actions on people's income levels. It is shocking to attack the sick rather than the causes of the disease. Indeed, we have a record number of patients. But because flexibility increases, as well as work stress and working time. Not only does the government ignore the causes but it aggravates the situation since it removes pre-pensions, sets the pension at 67, introduces flexi-jobs and soon the Peeters law, all of which will further increase the peniability of work and their health consequences, especially on the development of psychological diseases of which they are known to be the most important. So this government is really a sick factory. You, as Minister of Health, instead of defending these patients, you are precaring them more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see you again. In this new year, there are really a lot of topics I would like to ask you about: corporate tax, the level of tax revenues. But the cdH group really wants to draw your attention and express our concern about the employment situation in the banking sector. Discussions were held with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Employment on the situation in Caterpillar and the situation in the insurance sector. But there are also many concerns in the banking sector. Last July, when we discussed the contribution of the banking sector, which you set at EUR 805 million, I already expressed my concern. You told me that indeed, the profitability of the financial sector required a very careful follow-up. The situation was not flourishing. Since then, there has been a number of bad news. I will not recall here, in the insurance sector, the situation of Axa, P&V and Ethias. It is known in the banking sector that the situation at ING, for example, is a cause for concern. Perhaps you will have some information to share with us in this regard. In any case, I would like to hear from you, because if the information is communicated in a less brutal way than on the part of Caterpillar, it nevertheless gives rise to a great deal of concern, particularly among the employees in the sector. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? First of all, on the scale of the difficulties: in your opinion, are these cyclical adjustments or are they, on the contrary, signs of more serious, perhaps more structural difficulties? What causes can you identify in relation to these difficulties? In particular, I would like to hear from you about the monetary policy of the European Central Bank and the persistence of historically low interest rates. This is probably your business as a great silversmith, in terms of state financing, and it can also bring happiness to a few individuals, especially in terms of mortgage credits. But there's a setback to the medal. It is well known that these rates are in some way detrimental to the financing opportunities of the banking sector. Beyond the observation and diagnosis, what are the levers on which you can act? What measures are you working on, perhaps in collaboration with the National Bank of Belgium? You know that the financial sector is a vital sector and I have no doubt that it requires your full attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, the banking sector is evolving. Indeed, many elements of the traditional banking model are questioned. In terms of diagnosis, short-term and long-term considerations are taken into account. As far as the short term is concerned, there is obviously the monetary policy of the European Central Bank which has led to very low but also negative rates, which weigh heavily on the profitability of the banks. The question is how long the European Central Bank will continue to pursue this policy. Today, no one knows. Having said that, I would like to stress that the independence of the European Central Bank must be respected. As far as the long term is concerned, it is not just about taxes or the policy of the European Central Bank; there is a profound change in the financial sector at the level of the players (traditional banks, etc.).), technologies that evolve every day, and customer demands. In so doing, from a strategic point of view, the banking sector is undergoing a period of fundamental change, not to mention the new regulations such as Basel II, Basel III and even Basel III B. which some already mention. As you said, this mutation has been noticeable for some time. That is why I requested an analysis and recommendations from the High Level Group. This analysis was carried out. I think you had the opportunity to consult with her. In any case, I can say that this analysis is thorough and that I set up working groups just before the holidays to look at a number of specific issues, such as regularisation, digitalisation and competitiveness. They will have to propose specific measures to help the financial sector or improve the situation in this sector in general. Obviously, Mr. Dispa, employment will be one of the dominant considerations in finalizing the analysis that will be made after learning about the conclusions of these working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. I very much agree with your assessment of the evolution of the banking model, both for short-term reasons and for more fundamental reasons, particularly in relation to technological progress and customer demand. On the other hand, I would like to say that I am less satisfied with your reply on the actions you can take to support the banking sector. You referred to the High Level Group's report, the content of which is very rich and which was presented in committee. I would remind you that it dates back to January 13 of this year. You are now announcing that working groups will be set up to see what follow-up can be given. That's good, but I wonder if the urgency doesn't require speeding up. In commanding this report, your intention was to make Brussels a strong financial place. However, there are signs of weakness. That is why I believe it is urgent to take up the problem with arms and to act quickly on the recommendations that have been made by the High Level Group and, possibly, to supplement them with measures that are necessary to address the worrying situation in the banking sector. Thank you already for your involvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u65	Minister, the plans for European defence cooperation have returned from never before. 62 years after the jump of the EDG, the spirits are ripening to make another serious attempt. I'll give you some figures to back that up. All EU countries together spend 40% of the US defence budget each year. With that 40%, the EU countries together carry out 15% of the number of operations carried out by the United States. They are therefore three times less efficient than the United States. Last week, through their Foreign Ministers, France and Germany again launched a proposal to move to a European Defence Agency. Yesterday Mr Juncker also expressed his support for this plan in his State of the Union. You should not be surprised, Minister: geopolitical reality forces the countries of Europe to work towards European defence. The Middle East is completely torn apart, there is a migration crisis around the Mediterranean Sea, Russia is more assertive, if not aggressive, and the United States has been getting on with European freeriders in NATO. The political context also looks brighter than ever before. The European countries are pro. Because of the Brexit we lose an opponent of a European defence. The economic situation of the Member States also means that defence expenditure must be more profitable. Minister, my party is in favour of a European defence. We are convinced that Belgium can play a leading role in this. My question is therefore whether the Belgian Government will support the Franco-German proposal. How will Belgium contribute to the project? What message will you take to the Bratislava Summit at the end of this month?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u66	Mr Vandenput, over the past few days Mrs Mogherini, High Representative, then my Italian homologous and finally the French and Germans have spoken in a joint document on greater European integration. Belgium has always been in favour of inter alia cooperation, more integration, more efficient working, better arrangements and co-purchase. Last Tuesday in Berlin I was able to discuss the document directly with my homologe. I made it clear that Belgium is for better integration and for more output to do it more efficiently and to see how we can learn from each other. On the other hand, since there are already more than 10 organisations at European level today, you can look at it quietly in one way or another in the field of defence, I have noted that there is one limitation for us, namely that the overhead in the field of defence should not increase at all. The focus should be on output, on what we can actually achieve together. I myself strongly believe in building bottom-up, on the basis of bilateral and multilateral agreements, which we can extend further to the European level. It would be unfair for us at national level, like our neighbours, to do everything we can to reduce overhead structures and bestaffigation structures, while at another level we would create a new log monster. In short, we are absolutely in favour of better, faster decision-making procedures and faster and more efficient cooperation from the preparation of operations. We must, however, avoid creating another tiger that ultimately has little impact. We therefore support the Franco-German proposal, with a number of comments. We are happy to follow up on its practical implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u67	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. I fully agree that we should not recreate a log monster with a staff of thousands of employees. The focus is on output and bilateral cooperation, as you point out. Collaboration with several countries has indeed paid off, but now it is time to strengthen it. More cooperation is needed and it must be brought to a European level. I am convinced, together with my party, that in future the 27 Member States will never be able to achieve the safety of their citizens alone. We will have to do this together, in a European context. I am pleased to hear that you support the Franco-German proposal. There are comments and refinements. We look forward to the next steps you will take in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the distribution of the airport's lusts and burdens and the fair distribution of them are extremely important. We know that the airport is the economic engine of Flemish Brabant, Brussels and far beyond. We also know that everyone who works and invests in the airport needs a good agreement on the routes. That's essential. It is therefore all the more painful to note that the Brussels Government, with the CdH and the PS in its head, is planning to impose 28 times more noise fines on aircraft that follow Belgocontrol's instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u69	And CD&V and Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u70	I'm glad you're pulling that coalition and taking responsibility for it. However, it boils down to the fact that at the time about each party...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u72	Mrs. Onkelinx, may I speak? I'll respond to what you said in a moment. The moment everyone comes here to talk about job losses, there are parties willing to put tens of thousands of jobs on the chopping block. They dare to say that it is actually a political game. It is blackmail, Mr Bellot, because if you do not move those flights from Brussels to Flanders, they will cause jobs to be destroyed, prosperity to be lost and Zaventem and all investors to pay the price. Mrs. Onkelinx, you may remember, but now it's up to me to ask what planet you live on. The point, Minister, is that you must take action and take steps. Hence the following questions. Firstly, the coalition agreement establishes a cooperation agreement with Brussels on the application of noise standards. This appears to be urgently needed. Where do you stand with that? What are the next steps in this respect? Secondly, we need an agreement on the air routes, on a flight law. That means you have to sit around the table and submit plans. When will you present them to Parliament? Where do you stand with that? What are the main lines? Finally, we know that it is now a question of blackmailing Brussels Minister Fremault. How do you deal with this cdH-kamikaze minister who's targeting the airport? How do you protect the jobs at the airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the issue of flights pragmatically. I hear the messages from the local residents who are denouncing the nuisance, but also the messages from the socio-economic actors, who point out the importance of the airport for the economy of our country. That is why I prefer consultation with all the parties involved, and by that I mean all the parties. In this dossier, which has been on our mind for 14 years, I have planned a meeting with the regional ministers, with the associations of local residents, with the representatives of the airlines and of the airport, with the mayors and with the economic operators involved in that dossier. I've worked out a method based on seven components. One of these is the institutional component, an important component, which must not, however, dominate the debate in any case. Every region has its powers and I respect them. However, each region also has its share in the responsibility for restoring a sustainable solution. Secondly, the legal aspect. There are many lawyers and lawyers involved in legal proceedings, but the judicial process will not provide any solution. The solution will be in line with the government agreement. In order to arrive at a fair solution that is fair to all parties, local residents, economic actors, institutional bodies, etc., each party must decide for itself that it wishes to address this issue constructively with the genuine will to find a balance between all expectations and demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u74	Minister, you have put it differently, but you are actually saying that you are not a blackmailer, even if it comes from Brussels. I think this is important. In addition, all action groups must be consulted. There has to be a solution for everyone, but that also means that everyone has to drink water, that everyone has to take some of the burden and that everyone, including in this hemisphere, will have to accept it. We really need to move forward here. If we do not want the programme of certain parties to be implemented to turn Zaventem into a small business airport with a dozen planes a year, if we do not want 60 000 jobs to go into the trash, then we must act and we must move forward. I will continue to support you in this dossier, but I will remind you again and again that we must move forward and that we must land, literally and figuratively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u75	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u76	In accordance with Article 38 of the Act of 8 January 2012 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, a Disciplinary Board is hereby established which may, in certain cases, terminate the mandate of the Chairman or one or more members of the Management Committee of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG). In accordance with Article 38 of the Law of 8 January 2012 amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipeline, a Disciplinary Council is established which, in certain cases, may terminate the term of office of the Chairman or one or more members of the Management Committee of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CRE). The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The President of the Disciplinary Board must prove his knowledge of Dutch and French. One member is Dutch-speaking, the other French-speaking. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint alternates both for the President and for the members. The Disciplinary Council consists of a President and two members, all judges, who are elected by the House of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The Chairman of the Disciplinary Council must prove his knowledge of French and Dutch. One member is French-speaking, the other is Dutch-speaking. For both the President and the members, the House of Representatives must appoint alternates. The Secretariat of the Disciplinary Board is provided by a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Registrar, both magistrates, who are also elected by the Chamber of Representatives. The secretariat of the Disciplinary Council is entrusted to a French-speaking clerk and a Dutch-speaking clerk, both judges, who are also elected by the House of Representatives. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 September 2016, I propose that you publish two appeals to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 September 2016, I propose that you publish two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u77	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 June 2016, a third call for candidates for the nomination of the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 8 July 2016. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 June 2016, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 8 July 2016 for the presentation of the members of the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, professors or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers, professors or emeritus professors in law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyers; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. Members shall be nominated by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of four years, taking into account linguistic parity and pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Taking into account linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralistic representation, members are appointed by royal decree from a double list presented by the House of Representatives, for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who are not elected as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. Each language group shall have at least three members of each sex. Each language group has at least three members of each sex. Following the three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal and taking into account the extension of certain categories of the Commission by the Law of 16 June 2016, the following applications were submitted: Following the three calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor and taking into account the enlargement of certain categories of the Commission by the Act of 16 June 2016, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u78	- Mr Philippe Boxho (F), Professor at the University of Liège - Mr. Philippe Boxho (F), Professor at the University of Liège - Mr Etienne De Groot (N), professor of emeritus at the Free University of Brussels - Mr. Etienne De Groot (N), Professor Emeritus at the 'Vrije Universiteit Brussel' - Mr Wim Distelmans (N), Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Mr. Wim Distelmans (N), Senior Lecturer at the 'Vrije Universiteit Brussel' - mevrouw Marie-Elisabeth Faymonville (F), docent aan de 'Université de Liège' - Ms. Marie-Elisabeth Faymonville (F), lecturer at the University of Liège - Mr Didier Giet (F), Professor at the University of Liège - Mr Didier Giet (F), Professor at the University of Liège - Heer Charles Kornreich (F), docent aan of 'Free University of Brussels' - Mr. Charles Kornreich (F), lecturer at the Free University of Brussels - heer Dominique Lossignol (F), docent aan from 'University of Mons' - Mr. Dominique Lossignol (F), lecturer at the University of Mons - Heer Marco Schetgen (F), docent aan from 'Free University of Brussels' - Mr. Marco Schetgen (F), lecturer at the Free University of Brussels - de heer Maurice Sosnowski (F), docent aan de 'Université libre de Bruxelles' - Mr. Maurice Sosnowski (F), lecturer at the Free University of Brussels - Mr Chris Verslype (N), extraordinary professor at the KULeuven - Heer Chris Verslype (N), extraordinary professor at the 'KULeuven'
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u79	- Mr François Damas (F) - Mr. François Damascus (F) - Ms Anne Desodt (N) - Ms. Anne Desodt (N) - Mr Frank Douchy (N) - M. Frank Douchy (N) - Mr Philippe Gausset (F) - Mr. Philippe Gausset (F) - mevrouw Michèle Morret-Rauïs (F) - Ms. Michèle Morret-Rauïs (F) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Ms Muriel Thienpont (N) - Ms. Muriel Thienpont (N) - Heer Jean Michel Thomas (F) - Mr. Jean Michel Thomas (F) - Mr Marc Van Hoey (N) - M. Marc Van Hoey (N) - Mr Ludo Vanopdenbosch (N) - M. Ludo Vanopdenbosch (N) - Mrs Corinne Vaysse-Van Oost (F) - Ms Corinne Vaysse-Van Oost (F) - Mr Tony Vermeulen (N) - M. Tony Vermeulen (N)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u80	- Mr Tom Balthazar (N), Professor at Ghent University - Mr. Tom Balthazar (N), Senior Lecturer at the University Gent - Mr Walter De Bondt (N), professor of emeritus at Ghent University - Mr. Walter De Bondt (N), Professor Emeritus at the University Gent - Mrs Inge Faes (N), lawyer - Ms. Inge Faes (N), lawyer - Mr Gilles Genicot (F), lawyer - Mr. Gilles Genicot (F), lawyer - Ms Jacqueline Herremans (F), lawyer - Ms. Jacqueline Herremans (F), lawyer - Mr Yves-Henri Leleu (F), Professor at the University of Liège, attorney - Mr. Yves-Henri Leleu (F), regular professor at the University of Liège, lawyer - Mr Christophe Lemmens (N), lawyer - Mr. Christophe Lemmens (N), lawyer - Heer Stéphane Rixhon (F), lawyer - Mr. Stéphane Rixhon (F), lawyer - Mr Jan Vande Moortel (N), lawyer - M. Jan Vande Moortel (N), avocat - Heer Marc Van Overstraeten (F), docent aan from 'Catholic University of Leuven' - Mr. Marc Van Overstraeten (F), lecturer at the Catholic University of Leuven - Mr Gerd Verschelen (N), Professor at Ghent University - M. Gerd Verschelen (N), Professor à la 'University of Ghent' - Heer Geoffrey Willems (F), Hoogleraar aan from 'Catholic University of Leuven' - Mr. Geoffrey Willems (F), Professor at the Catholic University of Leuven
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u81	- Magali de Jonghe (N), consultant at de Mens.nu - Ms Magali de Jonghe (N), consultant to 'DeMens.nu' Mrs Magriet De Maegd (N), social nurse and nurse at the Topaz daily centre - Ms. Magriet De Maegd (N), Social Nurse and Chief Nurse of the Topaz Day Centre - Ms Jacinta De Roeck (N), advisor on ethical issues Open VLD, chairwoman and volunteer at LEIF Antwerpen - Ms Jacinta De Roeck (N), Ethics Adviser for the Open VLD, President and volunteer of the 'LEIF Antwerpen' - Mr Paul Destrooper (N), Secretary of the RIZIV Committee on Advisory Doctors - Mr. Paul Destrooper (N), Secretary of the INAMI Committee on Medical Consultants Mrs Arlette Geuens (N), Deputy Secretary at the Ziekkenfonds De Voorzorg-Limburg - Ms. Arlette Geuens (N), Deputy Secretary, Mutuality 'De Voorzorg-Limburg' Mrs Chantal Gilbert (F), Chief Nurse, Coordinator of Continuous Care and Algology at Erasmus Hospital and Psychotherapist - Ms. Chantal Gilbert (F), Chief Nurse, Coordinator of Continuing Care and Algology at Erasmus Hospital and Psychotherapist - mevrouw Thérèse Locoge (F), juridisch director van het universitair Ziekenhuis Brugmann as 'teacher' aan of 'Free University of Brussels' - Ms. Thérèse Locoge (F), Legal Director of the Brugmann University Hospital and teacher at the Free University of Brussels - mevrouw Géraldine Mathieu (F), reader aan de faculteit rechten van de 'Université de Namur' - Ms. Géraldine Mathieu (F), Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Namur. Mr Philippe Boxho and Mr Marco Schetgen presented their applications on the second call for candidates, but after the deadline for submission. Since a third call was published, it is proposed to declare these applications admissible. Mr Marco Schetgen confirmed that he was a candidate for a working member's mandate. MM. Philippe Boxho and Marco Schetgen submitted their applications following the second call for candidates, but after the deadline had expired. As a third appeal has been published, it is proposed to declare these applications admissible. Mr. Marco Schetgen confirmed that he is a candidate for an effective member. Twenty-two French-language applications were submitted, seven of which were female, and twenty Dutch-language applications, seven of which were female. At least three members of the same sex can therefore be proposed in each language group. Twenty-two Francophone applications were submitted, including seven female candidates, and twenty Dutch-speaking candidates, including seven female candidates. In each language group, at least three members of the same sex can therefore be presented. Within the category of patients who are in charge of the problem of incurably ill....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, linguistic parity must be respected for the committee as a whole. Consequently, a larger number of French-speaking candidates can be proposed in another category. Within the family category dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease, linguistic parity cannot be respected since only three French-speaking applications have been submitted. However, linguistic parity must be respected for the Commission as a whole. A larger number of Francophone candidates can therefore be submitted for another category. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 September 2016, candidates' CVs will be delivered to political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 September 2016, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u82	As there were too few candidates for the category "teachers or professors" of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointment Committees and for the category "external members" of the French-speaking Appointment Committee, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 15 July 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 7 July 2016. In view of the lack of candidates for the category "charged with courses or professor" of the French- and Dutch-language Appointment Commissions and for the category "external members" of the French-language Appointment Commission, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 15 July 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 7 July 2016. The applications were to be submitted by 31 August 2016. Applications were to be submitted no later than 31 August 2016. Five applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Five applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. There are still insufficient candidates for the categories of "teachers or professors" and "external members" of the French-speaking Appointments Committee. There are still not enough candidates for the categories "charged with courses or professors" and "external members" of the Commission de nomination francophone. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 September 2016, I propose that you publish a third call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal only for the categories "teachers or professors" and "external members" of the French-speaking Appointment Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 September 2016, I propose that you publish a third call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor only for the categories "charged with courses or professor" and "external members" of the Commission de nomination francophone. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u83	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 July 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 14 July 2016. Following the resignation of Camille Dieu, a call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Belgian Moniteur of 19 July 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 14 July 2016. The applications were to be submitted by 31 August 2016. Applications were to be submitted no later than 31 August 2016. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that a second appeal be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you publish a second call for candidates for the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u84	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 June 2016, a second call for candidates for the nomination of the members of the National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 8 July 2016. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 June 2016, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 8 July 2016 for the presentation of the members of the National Commission for the Evaluation of the Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy. The applications were to be submitted by 31 August 2016. Applications were to be submitted no later than 31 August 2016. Nine applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Nine applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. For the category "healer and professor, lecturer or emeritus professor in medicine," just enough applications were submitted but only two French-language. For the category "doctor in medicine and professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of medicine", the number of applications submitted is just sufficient, but only two French-speaking applications have been submitted. For the category "Professor, lecturer or emeritus professor in law or attorney," insufficient applications were still submitted. For the category "Professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of law or lawyer", the number of applications submitted is still insufficient. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that a third appeal be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for all categories. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you publish a third call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor for all categories. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u85	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of the proposal No. 2018/1 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans who ask for the withdrawal of the request for consideration of their proposal, I consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are sent to the competent committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No. 2018/1 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Ms Sarah Smeyers and Mrs Karolien Grosemans, which request the withdrawal of the request to take account of their proposal, I shall consider the consideration as acquired and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Franky Demon) amending the Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security in respect of locksmiths, No. 2035/1. Sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration - the legislative proposal (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert) to enable Parliaments to be informed in the event of collective redundancies in an undertaking, No. 2036/1. Sent to the Social Affairs Committee In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Mr Franky Demon) amending the Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security with regard to locks, No. 2035/1. Referral to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service - the bill (MM. Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert) to enable Parliament to be informed of cases of collective redundancies, No 2036/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u86	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-15-54-plenair-ip125x.u87	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 September 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 22 September 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 September 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
