ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u1	Question No 11222 by Mr. Daniel Senesael is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u2	Mr. Chair, Madam Secretary of State, you recently instructed Belspo to complete a complete inventory and develop a plan for archiving the movable heritage managed or owned by federal institutions, including federal museums. This approach is intended to give the government a clear picture of this heritage, with a view to better managing it. Within the framework of this census, federal museums must also determine which of their main objects are their objects, i.e. goods which can no longer leave Belgium without authorization or, of course, be sold. However, this approach may present the risk of opening a breach in the principle of the inalienability of State collections. In fact, museums could then sell undesirable objects, or separate themselves from them, as for example, and I quote from the press, "false, worthless objects, but also works of art that do not belong in the collection of the scientific institution". The question of the loss scenario of certain heritage elements after a poor estimate of their value is therefore raised. However, if the information published in the media were to be believed, the material could first be offered to other public institutions located on Belgian territory, before finally being transferred to third parties. In this regard, Madam Secretary of State, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us more details on the different objectives of the federal government's movable heritage census? What are the government's objectives and therefore the main points of the BELSPO roadmap? Given the principle of the inalienability of State collections, what measures have been adopted to limit the risks I have just exposed? What is the methodology used by your services to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u3	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the various objectives of the inventory of the federal state's movable heritage take into account the principle of the inalienability of the state's collections. The measures taken to limit the risks and the methodology used were selected by BELSPO. BELSPO, in consultation with the Federal Science Establishments (FSIs), is responsible for developing a step-by-step plan for the inventory of FSE inventories. FSEs now have only 60% of the artistic, scientific and historical heritage. Consideration shall be given to the legal requirements, the diversity of the collections managed, the main objectives and the core missions of the FSEs. In addition, an institution-by-institution recruitment policy will be developed in all FSOs, in coordination with BELSPO. It will take into account the enrichment and valorisation of collections as well as the search for legal and budgetary possibilities in order to enrich the collections. The main criteria advanced in the restructuring of the FSEs relate precisely to the unity and inalienability of the collections. It is even explicitly stated that the collections remain the property of the federal authority and that only the management of the collections is entrusted to the FSEs. The estimation of collections is a common modern practice in Belgian and foreign museums. In this context, I recommend reading the guide Op de muséeale weegschaal: collectiewaardering in zes stappen, which relates to the evaluation of museum collections in six stages. This guide was published in Dutch and English by the Dutch Cultural Heritage Institute. This assessment will be carried out by FSE experts and will have to meet high scientific standards so that the risks are highly limited. Virtually, our museums have worked nearly two hundred years in the development of their collections. Over time, pieces were acquired which later proved that they did not really have a place in the collections. In some cases, it was even false. The question of whether it is appropriate for the federal authority to continue to invest in the storage of items that will never be exhibited in federal museums is therefore more than legitimate in the context of modern museology, particularly with regard to the technique of museum evaluation. This exercise also includes inventories and targeted collection routes. A specific budget will be provided for this purpose, for the first time ever from 2017. In discussions to optimize the inventorying of the federal heritage, greater protection and conservation of the heritage will be taken into account. Thus, the question of better legal protection will be considered. In view of the multiple activities and complexity of the subject, after consultation, the action plan will start in autumn 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I take note that, like Minister Vandeput, to whom I asked the same question for the Royal Army Museum, you confirm that the collections will remain the property of the federal state and that only the management could be granted. I take note of this and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u5	Questions Nos 11961, 11962, 11963, 12348, 12552, 12553 and 12724 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions. Question No 12032 by Mr Gautier Calomne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, I put this question back a few weeks ago. On 11 June, the director general of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium made a number of statements in the press about your policy and, consequently, those of the government. I quote: "I will not call it negative, but it is the policy that it wants to pursue that scares me and the brutal way it does it, without consultation. I've been here 11 years and I feel that my role was that of an expert. I was there to build projects, modernize the institution in accordance with the rules. But the continuation of the savings begun under the previous legislature and strengthened by the present government is like a form of slow asphyxiation of the Royal Museums. This policy threatens the future of the institutions (...). They want to transform us into a public interest public limited company with a social purpose by trying to persuade us that it would work better. Inside the Museums, no one is against change, we are ambitious. But we must come with a clear project, not with questions, doubts and uncertainties." The Director General has, moreover, gone out of his reserve and has made many criticisms concerning, among other things, the budgetary policy of royal museums, the dialogue and coordination of work with your cabinet, the strength of the federal reform plan, the consideration of public servants, and I pass on. Since this statement, the dossier has seen new developments, and the press has indeed relayed the conclusions of an audit carried out on the management between 2010 and 2015 of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB), as well as of the Royal Museums of Art and History. This audit appears to identify several shortcomings: lack of staff evaluation, training plan for non-existent staff, low legal expertise in information technology, finance, procurement or projects. Moreover, there would be no risk management policy or monitoring in both institutions. In the case of MRBAB, the audit would also identify a lack of consultation with scientists in the choice of exhibitions or in the absence of recourse to public procurement. The Director General responded by strongly challenging this audit both in substance and in form. The latter sees it as a report solely directed against his person and his management. In addition, he challenged the latter's conclusions, recalling, inter alia, that a staff evaluation system had been set up in 2013, that an organizational chart had been drawn up or that staff had received training. Even without going into the substance of this issue, I regret that such controversies are exposed to the public in the press. These are quite regrettable and give a very sad image of our royal museums. Unfortunately, they are dismayed when it would be in everyone's interest to work together for the good of our national heritage. In the light of the comments made in the press by the Director General of the Royal Museums of Belgium, can you inform us of your considerations on this subject? What is your proposal on these criticisms and, therefore, on the government's response? With regard to the relationship of mutual trust and the spirit of neutrality that should prevail between a government and one of its members, as well as with the senior officials of the administration, do you consider the current framework to be preserved? How do you view the audit findings and the Director General's statements about them? What follow-up do you intend to give? If there are deficiencies in the management of royal museums, what measures do you intend to take? More broadly, what do you intend to do to improve the image of national museums and their relationship with the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, once again, the press relays criticisms from the sector regarding your management of scientific policy. My predecessor has already referred to what has happened, in the form of an indictment, it seems to me. Indeed, the director general of the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium made a number of statements in the press in order to protect the institution of which he has the management. In particular, it is critical of the government's savings with respect to federal scientific institutions, the consultation with the sector, the audit of its function, and the management and information of the new Museum of Modern Art. I will not go back to what my predecessor has already said. I know that you have responded to these various elements in a press release, but I would have liked to hear you on these various points: what is your position with regard to the various criticisms made by the director general of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts? Has there been a constructive dialogue with all the directors of the institutions under your control, particularly with regard to the reform of the federal scientific institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to some of the articles that appeared in Lecho about an internal audit of the management of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts between 2010 and 2015, which was carried out at your request. The conclusions would be "assassin" for the institution: non-existent monitoring, public procurement problems, low legal expertise, no training plan, no purchasing power plant, etc. The director of the Royal Museums, Michel Draguet, contests these conclusions on the substance, but also on how the audit was conducted. According to him, this report is solely dependent. In addition, in his capacity as Director, he was never able to meet with the auditor. He concluded that, since the period covered was precisely that of the ad interim management which he assumed, it was his person who would be directly targeted. The audit that you commissioned would, according to him, be "illegal and oriented". The saga of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts – and my analysis here is somewhat different from that of M. de Lamotte – has been going on for several years. Indeed, this is not the first time that difficulties have been identified in this case. Moreover, I do not only attribute responsibility to Mr Draguet, because they are also political and budgetary. In any case, they did not appear with the entry into office of this government. This is not the first time I have asked questions about this. I remember a former Minister of Science Policy, Paul Magnette, who had announced that he would solve the problems through a general plan. However, these statements have remained unchanged. That is why it is more than time – and I join Mr. Calomne and Mr. de Lamotte – to end this sad soap opera, which is unworthy of the mission of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts and which is detrimental to the image of our country. Everyone remembers this disastrous image of the buckets of water that circulated on the internet. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know the conditions under which the audit is to be carried out and its conclusions and, moreover, what possible follow-up you intend to give to this case, in particular if there are indeed shortcomings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u9	Mr Miller, thank you for your question. My answer will be long. I will first recall the context in which this audit was requested: the future appointment of the 5th Director General of the Royal Museums of Art and History (MRAH) in five years' time. It seems important to me that the new Director General begins with a clear overview of the situation of this museum. In addition, the Finance Inspectorate had issued critical opinions on procurement procedures at the MRAH. I have therefore asked my administration, through the President, to carry out an internal audit over the previous five years. During this period, the Royal Museums of Art and History and the Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB) were the subject of a fusion attempt called the 'Be One' project. It was brought to an end by my predecessor, Mr. Philippe Courard. Since 'Be One' was intended to integrate support services, it did not seem illogical to me to extend this audit to MRBAB, especially since, during this period, these two institutions had the same Director General for three and a half years. This audit request was made in August 2015. The audit was carried out by the PPS Policy Internal Audit Unit. I received the results on February 19, 2016. The audit focused on procedures and, above all, on financial procedures and related risks. It has demonstrated a large number of shortcomings and problems in the management of both institutions. Several procedures were incomplete or even non-existent, which could facilitate theft, losses and fraud. However, I would like to point out that the audit does not state anywhere that cases of theft or fraud have taken place, but it is only an identification of potential risks and therefore a useful management instrument. You understand that it is not for a secretary of state to meddle in the day-to-day management of a museum. This management is in fact the responsibility of the Director General, and this is one of the criteria for his evaluation. I would like to inform you that an interim evaluation was carried out by the President of the PPS on 10 June. The final evaluation will take place in October-November 2016. The other Directors General follow the same timetable. For this reason, I immediately, on March 3rd of this year, asked the President of the Science Policy PPS to present the findings to Draguet and to discuss with him a plan for improvement. In a letter dated April 24, I repeated this request to the President. I was therefore very surprised to read that Mr. Draguet stated that he had not received the results of this audit. However, the president confirmed to me that he had forwarded the audit to him. As far as the future is concerned, first of all, I expect the directors-general of the Royal Museums of Art and History and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium to take the necessary steps to remedy the deficiencies found. As I have already said, this is indeed their role as Director General. Moreover, as you read in the press, I have received several more specific charges concerning the management of the director general of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. These accusations came to me during the preparation of the audit, but were not the subject of the audit, which, I repeat, was limited to an assessment of procedures and identification of potential risks. I asked the Finance Inspectorate to check these charges. The Finance Inspectorate is, as you know, a neutral body whose mission is to carry out monitoring, research, audit and advisory tasks in administrative, budgetary and financial matters. It goes without saying that if it appears that these charges are well founded, I will take the necessary action. This is a basic element of good management of public administration for which I am responsible. Having said that, I find the controversies raised by the director general of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts quite regrettable, especially since they risk overshadowing the dedication and meticulous work of the collaborators. They deserve better. Federal heritage deserves better. The audience deserves better. It is for these reasons that I have already taken several initiatives to improve the operation and image of museums. I quote among other things the renovations of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts and the Royal Museums of Art and History, investment of 145 million euros including other museum buildings. I would also like to mention the investment in museum security and promotion, amounting to EUR 2 million. I intend to continue in this direction and will fight for every opportunity to improve the functioning and image of FSEs. I will now go into more detail about the press elements put forward by the Director. The Director General said, I quote: "Public endowments at the Royal Museums are in decline". It refers to the 2014 allocation. Indeed, for 2014, it integrates professional credits into the endowment. Both in 2013 and 2014, these professional appropriations were charged to the ESF budgets. In 2013, however, these credits were not liquidated by the Di Rupo government. When I took office, I decided to release them in order to increase the reserves of the ESF. The situation is therefore as follows: total ESF allocation 2013 without professional credits: €40,814,000. Total ESF allocation 2014: EUR 41 140 000. If we add the professional credits of 3,650,000 euros, we reach 44 million. Total allocation 2015, 52 million, including 11 million for one-time investments. Total allocation 2016: 44 111 000 euros. Without taking account of professional credits, the ESFs are therefore strengthened and not decommissioned. The Finance Inspectorate has meant that we must ignore professional credits to calculate the net effects of the austerity measure. With regard to the additional investments in 2015, in June we released just over €11 million for unique investments in the federal scientific institutions. These investments represent an additional 30% compared to the 2015 allocation. The objective of these one shot investments was threefold. It was a catch-up movement in order to reduce the investment gap. We wanted to support the achievements necessary for the operations and outputs of the federal scientific institutions. We found it important to further enhance the attractiveness of the establishments and thus attract even more visitors, and among them tourists. Note that it is the FSOs themselves that have prioritized the investments. I followed their advice. With regard to the renovation, in collaboration with my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Minister Jambon and Mr Reynders, as head of Beliris, I have drawn up a plan which was approved on 26 May by the Council of Ministers. The federal museums will finally be renovated. The cost of their renovation and restoration is estimated at 145 million euros. The renovation will be financed by the Régie des Bâtiments and Beliris. Federal museums are in a lamentable state: there are infiltrations when it rains, security is compromised to the point that several rooms can simply no longer be used. As a result, much of the collections are no longer available to the public. For the moment, only 21% of the works of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts are shown to the general public. Ten years ago, that percentage was 51%. It is logical to renovate spaces not exploited by the collection of modern art, mainly made up of Belgian works. This collection may once again be linked to the collection of the ancient arts, from which it originates. The most urgent work concerns the repair of the worn roofs of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, the Royal Museums of Art and History, Autoworld and the Army Museum. The costs are estimated at EUR 35.9 million. The work will be carried out between 2016 and 2018. In addition, first-phase master plans will be established for the renovation and full restoration of the three federal scientific institutions: MRAH, MRBAB and IRPA. The composition of these plans, estimated at €1.04 million, will have to be completed in 2017. The aim is to carry out four partial studies, after the first phase: the preliminary draft, the application file for a building permit, the special specifications for the execution of the work and the assistance of the execution of the work. The total is estimated at EUR 14.1 million. Work will begin in 2019 and is expected to be completed in 2021. They are budgeted at EUR 94 million. The security of ESF museums is also an important focus. Because of threat level 4, I have taken steps to increase security. Since 1 April, the contract with external monitoring staff has been extended by three months and the number of security guards has been increased to 18. Two additional security portals have also been planned. The cost of these measures is estimated at EUR 400 000. At the moment, we are looking for ways to sustain these measures of security. These additional security measures benefit the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium, the Musée du Cinquantenaire, the Musée des instruments de Musique, the Institut des Sciences naturelles (IRSNB), the Royal Library and the Planetarium of the Observatory in Laeken. After the temporary increase in the level of threat to level 4 last November, following the attacks in Paris, I had already decided to purchase seven security portals for museums. Funds were also released to hire 14 surveillance officers. I have asked the Directors General to develop a strategy to integrate this security in a structural way into their operations. To ensure an additional promotion of federal museums in Brussels, I have released 170,000 euros: IRSNB and MRAH and MRBAB have each received 50,000 euros. The Planetarium received 20,000 euros. The institutions have given this amount a concrete application. The MRBAB uses this amount to make its advertisement appear on buses and trams. With respect to the overall reform of the Federal Scientific Institutions (FSIs), I would like to share this with you. In the scientific landscape, our FSBs occupy a separate place, because of the collections they have. In addition, FSEs have specific expertise. This is how they built their scientific recognition. Their areas of research can count on the interest of other museums and knowledge centres, which can only increase with the further modernization of their organization and infrastructure. Let us be honest, however, that the FSBs today lack the capacity to act in order to operate according to current standards. The Science Policy PPS, in the belief that centralization would lead to greater efficiency, has severely restricted the autonomy of the operational decisions of the FSEs. Moreover, centralisation has the effect that the public funding structure has to a large extent merged with the operational management of the FSEs. FSEs that have always retained their status as a federal public service do not have the opportunity to pursue a widely supported contemporary and autonomous policy. A closer involvement of several stakeholders is desirable to this end. Self-reliance and accountability are required for the proper management of federal scientific institutions. That's why I'm going to make the FSBs autonomous. My intention is to divide the ESF into autonomous entities that still need to be created. They will have their own legal personality. In return for increased autonomy, the autonomous entity will have to justify its results. These results will be assessed against a management contract with the federal government. This management contract will contain concrete objectives that can be controlled by the government and possibly imposed. I am firmly convinced that the reforms that are planned will establish modern management of the ESF and will give rise to new perspectives for researchers, collaborators and visitors, both Belgians and foreign tourists. I can reassure everyone: the means of staffing that will be allocated are the same as those currently allocated. In principle, therefore, they will not be changed. I have explained myself on several occasions on the reform of scientific policy, particularly in Parliament during the presentation. In December 2015, I gave a keynote speech to the Koninklijke Vlaamse Academy of Belgium. The fine flower of the scientific world was present. In February 2016, I attended the Federal Council for Science Policy (FCPS) to explain the reform that I am implementing and for which I asked for a formal opinion. On 22 February, I met with the FSB Steering Committee to talk to them about the reform. On April 19, I met with the scientific advisors of all the FSEs. On more than three occasions, we have conducted written surveys of the directors of the ESFs on various aspects of the reform. My advisors have daily contacts with the ESF. In conclusion, allow me to speak for a moment about the management of collections. Museums' collections are valuable, not only for reasons related to art history, but also because they represent a significant part of the federal government's overall movable heritage. This heritage remains the property of the federal authority. As I said, each FSB remains a manager of its movable assets. In fact, I have just developed a collection policy for federal scientific institutions. It is important that the federal authority has an accurate and complete idea of the movable assets it owns and/or manages. That's why I asked for an inventory. In some federal scientific institutions, the inventory is complete; in others, the work is far from complete as the inventory is not very advanced. This is a particularly important number of objects. A coherent inventory is a fundamental condition for the proper management of collections. It is also an effective tool to combat theft. Clear inventory files including all the basic data of all works must be created in the near future. The aim of this analysis is to develop a targeted acquisition policy through which the mission of museums can be transposed. In practice, it is quality that prevails, and therefore distances must be taken with a collection policy that too often focuses on accumulation rather than qualitative enrichment. We must achieve a modern, efficient and above all qualitative collection policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your long, detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u11	Mr President, the long and detailed reply of the Secretary of State deserves a slightly longer reply than the previous one. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to return to some points, after thanking you for the various elements of the responses to the audit and the criticisms that have been brought to our attention. It is now important to take action and plan for the future. However, this will only be possible in a calm climate. For the time being, the relationship of trust between the government you represent and the administration and, in particular, the Director General seems to be somewhat undermined. I therefore hope that the path of constructive dialogue can be quickly found, even if I see that everyone has his or her own priorities and tasks, but also that it is not up to you to manage the institution on a daily basis. As you have said, repeated statements give a somewhat deplorable picture of our museums, which is why we must quickly try to put an end to them. In my opinion, the administration has a reserve duty. Indeed, while it is important for things to be said, it should not be done through the media. This way of doing things undermines the image of our museums as the federal government arranges and invests significant amounts. You mentioned the sum of 145 million euros. I would point out here that I have already interviewed Minister Jan Jambon in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments on this subject. We must also count with the support of Beliris, who falls within the competence of Minister Didier Reynders. It is a beautiful project which has been defended by several federal departments and which has been successful. These museums really needed it. That is why it seems to me, however, that certain statements can stem this positive momentum. With respect to the federal independent scientific institutions, I understand that the endowments would remain the same. I will come back to ask you, probably with a few colleagues, as soon as the reform is a little more advanced. I also note that the collections will remain the property of the federal government and that each institution will retain the management of its movable assets. It was important to remind him. In any case, this case is far from closed. I invite you to return to the path of dialogue in order to restore a positive image to our cultural and artistic institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answers you have kindly given me. On the other hand, I shall return to my second question, which has not been answered. Heritage is one of the dimensions that the federal state must safeguard. The image of the collections is essential. I note, however, that the rate of rooms visible to visitors has increased from 50% to 11%. You then referred to the additional 11 million for fiscal year 2015, which are part of a one shot operation. This amount comes from part of the space policy budget. Additional resources will therefore be required. On the other hand, I note that the climate in federal scientific institutions is not serene at all. You regret some statements in the press. However, the staff concerned sometimes have no alternative. I understand the policy that you want to develop with a focus on independent federal scientific institutions. However, their autonomous status will not bring them real growth if they are strangled. I am curious to observe the consequences or conclusions of the policies that are being put in place. I am more surprised by your answer to my second question. You did not tell me whether constructive consultation was carried out with all the directors of the institutions under your control, particularly with regard to the reform of the federal scientific institutions. You have told me that the employees of the firm or that the employees of the administration were discussing with the people. But has there been real consultation, not the imposition of a certain number of diktats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u13	Mr President, I come with a small question because the Secretary of State has given a set of information and figures which are extremely interesting and important. Can we have the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u14	They will be included in the full account of this exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u15	So we'll get it quickly. I do not quite have the same analysis as our colleague Mr de Lamotte, and that is quite normal. Through your answer, Madam Secretary of State, through the various elements of both figures and budgets, and the more political elements that you have brought, it seems to me that you are a good expression of this government's desire to end a saga that has been going on for a very long time. The government of which you are the Secretary of State has the will to bring about the right solutions. Investments have been made, commitments made. A dialogue is established to evolve towards another type of structure. Financial resources are available. A plan for the renovation, including with the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, and Minister Reynders, for Beliris, is being set up. Of course, there are some difficulties. But this government has a lot of concerns everywhere, and that is in line with a certain logic. [[I have heard the various elements of the Minister's response.]] It is true that at some point the Minister of Science Policy, Mr Magnette, initiated the great plan that would solve everything. It didn't lead to anything. To such an extent that it was even someone from his political family, Mr. Courard, who stopped the plan because he thought it would not work. It's an element that's not negligible. Even Mr Draguet acknowledges in his statements that it was the Di Rupo government, therefore the previous government, which reduced the allocation by 400,000 euros. So when I hear you, Madam Secretary of State, you are announcing many elements in the renovation of buildings, you want to maintain budgets, give more autonomy, etc. As Mr de Lamotte has said, the fact that we have grown from 50% of visible works to 11%, it is not under this government that this has happened, it is before! So when you say that you absolutely want us to review the works of the modern art collection, I can only follow you because this is a very important period for Belgian art, which is no longer visible at all. Finally, your desire to have a complete inventory of the heritage carried out is extremely important, especially since you wanted to give this inventory a qualitative dimension. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u16	I must tell you that, apart from any Rules of the House, I regularly receive instructions from the Speaker of the House, Mr.Bracke, to say that questions, answers and replies must be given due attention. Here we are at the end of the session, we are between us and the agenda has been somewhat lightened by the absence of Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. But in this mini-debate, we have gone far beyond oral questions, regardless of the importance of the subject. In principle, speaking times are much smaller. But I am a flexible person in the organization of our work. That being said, it should not be made a habit on all issues, especially when there are many. This is not the case today. I shall pass the floor to Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, a number of reforms are under way with regard to scientific policy. As they are delayed, the directors of the Federal Scientific Institutions (FSIs) are generally not appointed but appointed as ad interim. Several terms of office end in the coming months and no selection has been put in place by the Selor. However, in the direction of Science Policy, the ad interim director has just been appointed for a six-year term, while the Science Policy PPS is to be abolished in accordance with the government agreement. My questions are as follows. Why not start a procedure to replace or extend the directors, whose mandates end when the reform of the ESF is far from being implemented and a director would be very useful in this reform? Has an evaluation of each director been conducted? How was it done? Why this difference in treatment between the Director of Science Policy PPS and the Directors of FSEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u18	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question. The answer will be brief. Most of the Directors-General are indeed agents. Their assessments shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down for that purpose. The interim evaluations were carried out during May and June by the President of the Science Policy PPS. The final evaluations will be carried out in October/November by him. Depending on the final rating of these evaluations, their terms of reference will or will not be extended automatically. In some institutions, an ad interim director-general has been appointed. As soon as clarity as to the purpose of the ESF reforms is established, a sharp selection will be organised, but in the meantime, there will always be a Director General during the reform process. The position of the Chair of the Science Policy PPS is a special function to be distinguished from that of the Executive Director of a federal scientific institution. Unlike a Director General, the President of a PPS remains in office only when the PPS is removed. Given this government's plan to reform the Federal Science Policy, the Science Policy PPS will eventually be removed and its missions will be integrated into other entities. Accompaniment to this reform is another important task for the President. As regards the procedure for the appointment of a new President, initiated with a view to the end of the term of office of the former President, this new description of office has been explicitly taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u19	Mr. Chair, I take note of the Minister's responses and the dates she provided me with for the Director General's assessment. I am not convinced by the answer, but we will return to it later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Brussels Council of Museums has recently launched a €40 card giving ten visits to 37 Brussels museums over a period of three months. This may be acquired by the general public by 27 August at the latest. This initiative is part of the 100 Masters campaign, which aims to promote the masterpieces of the permanent collections of cultural poles present in the capital. This map will give access, among other things, to various federal museums such as the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, the Magritte Museum, the Musée du Cinquantenaire or the Musée des instruments de Musique. In addition, cardholders will benefit for three months from a range of discounts for attractions such as the Atomium, but also in cafes and shops in Brussels. Finally, it is also possible to buy this card with the option Hop on/Hop off, which allows you to use the tourist buses that travel through Brussels. This initiative, which enables as many tourists as Belgian and Brussels citizens to access our national heritage at a democratic price, must be welcomed. In addition, low-cost access to other Brussels attractions, as well as to horeca establishments, is a positive initiative in the context of the revival of activity in the capital after the attacks last March. Madam Secretary of State, does this involve a partnership with your services and, if so, could you communicate to us the nature of this operation? What will be the financial impact of this operation on the federal state? Has a forward-looking assessment been made? What is the number of additional visitors expected through this initiative? What advertising measures are planned, in direct synergy with your services, not only in Belgium but also in third countries, since they are also aimed at a tourist audience? Are you considering other comparable initiatives in the future? If so, which ones? Are one-off free actions for federal museums, such as the first Sunday of each month, possible or perhaps already envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u21	Mr Calomne, the Federal Scientific Institutions (Royal Museums of Art and History, Fine Arts and the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences) participate in the Brussels Card 100 Masters initiative of the Brussels Council of Museums (CBM). With this card, if it is validated at the information points, the visitor must no longer go through the boxes to access the collections. This validation should provide statistics on the number of visitors, but it is too early to determine the success of this measure. It is also difficult to get an idea of the financial impact of this operation on the federal state. The CBM pays 60% of the entrance ticket. It is therefore not a question of free admission but of reduced-rate admissions. The CBM should decide, in consultation with the Brussels museums, in view of the success of the first version, to establish the Brussels card 100 Masters in the long term. The promotion of this map is clearly reflected in the brochure 100 Masters, which has 30,000 copies and is available in all federal museums. This card is also promoted via newsletters and social networks. The free admission valid on the first Sunday of the month in museums of the French Community is also applicable in federal museums, on the first Wednesday of the month. This provision is a great success, especially with the family audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for these different elements of the answer, although I do understand the difficulty, at this stage, of obtaining precise figures. I will come back with a written question to take stock of this initiative. I have also taken note of the fact that, on the basis of the assessment carried out, a card would be valid in the longer term. Maybe we're heading for a more sustainable map. As far as the other initiatives are concerned, the French Community actually has this system free of charge on the first Sunday of the month. For federal museums, it's the first Wednesday. I had already asked you about this, particularly about the Constantin Meunier Museum. Coordination on this provision should also be considered. This is done in other countries, including France. This is important for the Belgian public who contribute to the financing of these institutions. We need to think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic462x.u23	In view of the absence of Mr. Van Hees, his question No 12256 becomes moot. On this, we can close our work.
