ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u1	Minister, a recent study of the evolution of the telecom market published by HSBC depicts a market where no operator has a real interest in competing prices. It seems that too many hopes were placed in Mobistar's new fixed offer which finally benefits from the opening of the networks. But this operator did not "cash" prices and restricted its offer to its mobile subscribers alone. Analysts believe that larger operators will prefer to lose some market share on both the fixed and mobile markets rather than lower their prices. The evidence is that Proximus and Telenet do not hesitate every year to increase the prices of fixed subscriptions. According to this analysis, Medialaan, which inherited the 500,000 basic VMO customers, should not lower its prices either. So we are in a market that benefits everyone but consumers. Some talk about lack of competition, but it must be noted that we have not yet seen many government initiatives to lower prices. Minister, do you share the findings of this study? Do you intend to take initiatives to encourage or even force operators to lower their prices in any case on the fixed? Now that the networks are open, do you still think that competition alone can actually play a role in favour of consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u2	My colleague, the role of the public authorities is to create an environment conducive to competition and investment. It is, in my view, too early to assess the impact of Mobistar's entry on the market. This entry took place only on 1 March, six weeks ago, on a limited scale. Mobistar plans to extend it to the entire country and also to all customers without a mobile subscription by the end of 2016. Several initiatives have been taken to promote the entry of operators into the market and to encourage more competition. We can mention the opening of the Proximus cable and network, the amendment of the law to allow users to change supplier without being subject to penalty, the enrichment of the site-mother rate.be with regard to the national comparison of rates. In addition, we will strengthen the consumer's position through initiatives such as EasySwitch that will lower barriers to operator change. Finally, there are also initiatives to compare the quality of services provided. A review of the broadband market and television is included in the IBPT's 2016 operational plan. It is on the basis of the outcome of this new review that it will be necessary to define whether or not additional measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, the previous government in which you were involved has taken a lot of steps to improve consumer protection and, above all, to ensure that consumers are increasingly taken hostage in order to lower prices. These measures have borne fruit. There is a lack of competition with regard to fixed assets. I understand that it is difficult at this stage to have an evaluation. As far as I am concerned, I have informed you of the conclusions of a study, on the assumption that the IBPT will also have to work on the matter. I will therefore come back to you to see if, at some point, market dynamics will allow for a further fall in prices in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u4	Minister, a few months ago, the House voted on a bill authorizing the government to sell all or part of the shares held by the state in Proximus and bpost. Specifically, the government is no longer required to maintain a majority shareholding in these two companies. It will no longer be necessary to go through parliament, since a simple royal decree will allow the state to reduce its shareholding. On the basis of this provision, you announced that the decision to privatize these companies would be evaluated. Meanwhile, workers in these companies are placed in an unfair situation of total uncertainty about their future. The uncertainty lies as much in the total lack of objectiveness of the stated criteria as in their mandatory nature. Injust because many of them have largely allowed and accompanied the modernisation of these companies now performing in their respective markets. They're making a profit. The prospect of privatization is therefore seen as a betrayal as it paves the way for management focused on the distribution of short-term dividends to the detriment of workers. However, I would point out that, if bpost goes well, it is thanks to its workers who have shown a great deal of flexibility and flexibility in their work in recent years. Another consequence is that this uncertainty affects the quality of social dialogue within companies. Indeed, how can workers' organisations calmly discuss with a management whose ownership could, without any predictability, change and change the company in a completely different social context? Minister, what is the status of the announced assessment of the desirability of privatisation? When will the workers be determined on the fate of their company? Do you not think that greater predictability would benefit both workers and the company? How can we avoid the weakening of social dialogue? In committee, you had considered increasing the state's participation in bpost. What about your assessment of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u5	Mrs Lalieux, the assessment provided for in the new Article 54/7 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises aims at a possible concrete transaction which would result in the participation of public authorities in the capital being reduced by less than 50 % plus one share. An assessment will therefore be made only if such a transaction is to occur. I'm talking to the conditional. Mrs Lalieux, you underestimate the workers and the management of bpost and Proximus, who have long been forced to work in sectors and in economic, political, financial circumstances which are often difficult and constantly evolving. It must be noted that the social partners, both at Proximus and at bpost, continue to engage in dialogue and collaboration to ensure the sustainability of these societies. It can be said today that if these two companies are strong in their sector, it is thanks to all the members who work in these companies. I would have said we had to increase our share of capital. Let's put my words in context! My remarks should be clarified. I said that, for example, in the event of an increase in the company's capital, we would probably attract external capital. This would result in a shareholding of less than 50 per cent. This does not mean that the approach is to actively reduce our participation in capital. There is a difference and I do not think I have said that we would intend to increase our participation in the capital. It's not impossible, but that's not what I said. I said that increasing the volume of total capital could result in the total going below 50%. I will be very clear: this is an eventuality. I presented it because, in most of the debates, it was said that selling x % of our participation was one possibility but that there was another: going below the 50% threshold. There are two examples, only in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u6	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, no valuation is being made at this time, as the government is not considering an increase in capital or a sale of its own shares. An evaluation must be done before. I do not underestimate at all these two companies, bpost and Proximus, which have done remarkable work in recent years. However, we know how much workers paid for this modernity so that their company could resist in a liberalized market. The number of job losses is enormous. The extra work for postal workers is huge and everyone knows it. Today, they need stability. These companies are doing well while they are still companies with a majority of the public sector. I have been asking since the beginning of the debate on the passed law that these companies retain a public majority, that the state continue to assume its responsibilities and guarantee this stability in these two companies that need it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u7	Mr Minister, at present mobile coverage by telecom operators outside buildings is of very good quality in Belgium. On the other hand, indoor mobile coverage can be problematic. According to the Belgian Association of Professional Telecom Users, BELTUG, more than half of our companies are experiencing communication problems within their premises. The establishment by operators of small infrastructures to ensure connectivity is therefore necessary. However, the market for mobile coverage in buildings is almost unregulated today - causing many disadvantages. In the absence of a clear legal framework, it seems that some operators would impose unfair conditions on their customers, for example in terms of breach of contract. It is indeed difficult to change suppliers after an operator has installed antennas for which he remains the owner. Moreover, under the current legislation, it is impossible to install gsm repeaters without the authorisation of the operator concerned, with the result of commercial offers that remain expensive, an Iocking of customers to their operator or the proliferation of illegal repeaters. Another problematic aspect is often mentioned: when the tenant of an office building leaves him, he is obliged to return the premises to their original condition. However, if he wishes to transfer his antenna device to the next tenant, the obligations of the parties are not defined. Aware of these problems, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) has undertaken a consultation of the sector. It is also studying the introduction of measures to structure the market. Among these actions in the area of antenna transfer between tenants, the IBPT would like operators to define in advance a framework and contracts that can be applied to several companies. It also appears that the sector wants building managers to systematically take this issue into account and invest themselves in arrangements to improve indoor coverage. The aim is for each new construction to be equipped with a neutral system and not dependent on a particular operator. As such, the IBPT would like to create a specific label for buildings that would be equipped with this type of cover device. Finally, the sector also appears to be calling for the establishment of a central register of internal antennas, as well as a mechanism for exchanging information on them, in order to ensure transparency on the market. Minister, can you confirm the information that has just been presented to you regarding the options chosen by the IBPT? Are specific measures already endorsed by your services? If so, is a work schedule planned? What is the state of sectoral consultation on this issue? Are you satisfied with the dialogue with telecom operators? What are the difficulties, if any, raised by economic actors with your services? Do you have any information on our country's position at European level in terms of mobile coverage of buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u8	Mr Calomne, the IBPT published the results of the consultation on 17 March 2016. The IBPT is part of BELTUG's findings to launch its consultation and has worked with this association to ask the relevant questions and to develop options to address this issue that you mentioned. A round table between BELTUG, the IBPT and the sector will be held on April 28th in order to take stock of the solutions and avenues identified so that the results of the consultation can be used. Finally, we do not have a comparative study at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u9	Minister, thank you for your precise and short answers. I take note of the fact that a round table will be held on 28 April. I'll come back to you later for more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u10	Minister, a few months ago, I asked you about the future of the hard copy telephone directory. At the time of writing my question, I had found that there were few gsm numbers in the directory, that is, just over 300,000 out of 11 million, or 3%. This low rate can be explained by the less and less frequent use of telephone bottin. But what about the website 1307.be? Currently, more and more Belgians are using the Internet for a variety of reasons. It would therefore be wise to promote this site and encourage users to allow the insertion of their gsm number. Minister, are gsm numbers well represented on the 1307.be website? What are the avenues for positively changing the share of gsm numbers? What steps should be taken to have its gsm number found on the site? I think it's interesting to come back to this case. I live in a very small commune, very rural, where by taking the 1307 or the bottin, it is still possible to reach people. It's not a problem because people still have a fixed line. If you translate this into a city like Brussels, it becomes much more complicated to be able to reach someone. I think that we must at least update this phenomenon, find solutions. Some people voluntarily return their private numbers or don't give their gsm numbers. That remains a choice. But from the moment it is public, would there be an opportunity to contact the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u11	Ma'am, mobile numbers represent 9% of the 3.5 million numbers in the directory. 1307 is also a directory, in electronic form. As a result, the same findings can be made with more or less 323,000 mobile phone numbers mentioned. This percentage is relatively low because mobile users prefer not to publish their numbers because of privacy concerns. Clearly, with the fixed numbers, it was different, it was the number of your house. The mobile number is always with you. Clearly, the preference of users is different. Anyone wishing to have their mobile number on site 1307 can fill out the form available on the site. But we see that few people do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u12	Minister, thank you. We can't decide instead of people, let's be clear. I think the attitudes in large cities and rural communities are still a little different. But even for a municipality, being able to reach a citizen sometimes remains the combatant's path when we do not have a reference. There is an opportunity to have a document completed at the time of registration, but there is always privacy law. I think it might be interesting, minister, to do a little campaign on this. I think that the electronic directory, however, remains a reference. Perhaps it would be interesting to draw attention to the fact that there is still an essential way to contact people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u13	Minister, on several occasions I had to contact the bpost customer service at 022/01.23.45 to obtain various information. Unfortunately, it's not always easy or quick to have the right information. I can tell you that I had to take my pain in patience. After our approach to the Customer Service, it is possible to answer a satisfaction survey to determine whether the call met the consumer's expectations. There are several questions to answer with a number: 1 being a bad score, 10 being the best. I would like to know what happens to the results and whether they actually serve to improve the Customer Service or not. Minister, in general, can you tell me whether the results of the surveys are positive or not? On the merits, I confess that I doubt a little bit because it's not simple. What happens to the results of the satisfaction survey? Have they led to one or more major changes? If so, which ones? Has this number been in existence for a long time? Has he ever had any complaints? I think the person on the phone sometimes needs a bit faster response. Here, it is the course of the fighter when you want to make a box or have a correct information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u14	This number has been in existence for almost eleven years. The client can choose, before being connected with a staff member of the service center, whether or not to participate in the investigation. He can then assign a score ranging from 1 to 7, to four different questions. No specific complaints were made with regard to this investigation, which is a common practice. The results of the surveys are used by bpost to train call center employees through recall sessions on different products. They are also used to adapt internal product information. If necessary, an input is given to the product and process manager on the basis of the results of the surveys, in order to optimize the product or service. The results of the surveys are more than satisfactory but bpost acknowledges that it is possible to do better. This is why training courses are organised on an ongoing basis. As a result, clients who have scored a bad score are normally contacted the next day to ask them what happened wrong and how they can be remedied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u15	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your full answer. It is pleased that these results are used to train collaborators. Having said that, I am a little surprised to learn that the results of the survey are positive. It may be necessary to consider the fact that people are often in a hurry, so many preferred not to respond to the survey due to lack of time. Well, as you say, we can always do better. The aim is to improve the service. I am not saying that it is catastrophic, but satisfaction surveys are not always easy to carry out because the people consulted do not always take the time to respond. Having said that, I invite you to try to call bpost and we'll talk about it again in eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic386x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus closed this session of questions.
