ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u2	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for this week's meetings. We must approve the agenda for this week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u3	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: - the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, - le Conseil national of the Principality of Monaco, - the General Council of the Principality of Andorra, - the Irish Parliament, - the Parliament of the Republic of Finland, - the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, - the House of Representatives of Romania, - the Presidency of the Republic of Haiti, - the National Assembly of the French Republic, - the National Council of the Swiss Confederation, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, - the Saeima of the Republic of Lithuania, - the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Cape Verde, - the National Assembly of Burkina Faso, - the Legislative Yuan of the Republic of China (Taiwan), and - the National Assembly of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. In connection with the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received messages of support and condolences from the following parliamentary assemblies: - the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, - the National Council of the Principality of Monaco, - the General Council of the Principality of Andorra, - the Irish Parliament, - the Parliament of the Republic of Finland, - the Diet of the Republic of Poland, - the Chamber of Deputies of Romania, - the Presidency of the Republic of Haiti, - the National Assembly of the French Republic, - the National Council of the Swiss Confederation, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, - the Saeima of the Republic of Lithuania, - the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus, - the National Assembly of the Republic of Cape Verde, - the National Assembly of Burkina Faso, - the Yuan Legislative of the Republic of China (Taiwan) and - the National Assembly of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 April 2016, I propose that you consider the proposal (Peter De Roover, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitrir, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threat, No. 1752/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 April 2016, I propose that you take into consideration the proposal (Peter De Roover, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitir, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threat, No. 1752/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u6	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would also suggest that we approve the urgency of this proposal. No one wants to intervene at that point? Then the urgency has been accepted. It's been noted. Mrs Pas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, consideration should be purely pro forma. In a genuine parliamentary democracy, everything should be considered, but we know that this is not the case here. Contrary to the self-declared democrats in this hemisphere who have already refused this legislature twice to consider proposals of the Flemish interest and to hold the debate, we will of course not do so today. A committee of inquiry must be set up. The Flemish Interest was already convinced of this in January. We have already put forward a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on the Molenbeek terrorist cell following the attacks in Paris. It was already clear at the time that everything went wrong. Unfortunately, horrific attacks had to be carried out before you, ladies and gentlemen, were also convinced of the usefulness of a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, before the Easter recess, I listened with particular attention to your statements in this hemisphere on how to conduct an investigation without taboos, how to avoid political games and how to avoid suspicion. Barely a week after those beautiful words in the hemisphere turned out to be hollow. On 1 April, one major political agreement was reached on the Committee of Inquiry. I've had to hear it from the newspapers. This is how parliamentary democracy works in Belgium. At first I really thought it was a bad April 1 joke. After all the promised openness and democracy, I really assumed that on such vital matters, at least all the parties would be represented in that committee of inquiry, that all the parties represented here in this House would be included in that committee of inquiry. I assumed that all the parties represented here in Parliament would be included in that committee of inquiry, as is very often the case, in proportion to the smaller parties and non-voting members. That's not unknown to you, is it, a non-voting member of a committee of inquiry? My fellow Members from N-VA know that for sure. I mention the Fortis Committee of Inquiry, of which I was a member, and the Committee of Inquiry into Tax Fraud, which I was in. N-VA was always represented with a non-voting member. The N-VA has never had a member other than a non-voting member on a committee of inquiry. Members of the N-VA, have you not forgotten that a non-voting member exists? How could you forget so quickly? Is that the strength of change that a non-voting member is no longer allowed today? How do you explain to the people that you are making a political agreement that will ensure that those who predicted the problems and the attacks and that those who first asked for a committee of inquiry are excluded from that committee? If you want full transparency, as you claim, then you should take advantage of our expertise and our fundamental criticism, rather than being afraid of it. The political correctness, which has led to the many jihad victims in Zaventem and Brussels, is even reflected in the mandate of the Committee of Inquiry which is before us today. I've reread it three times, but I haven't seen the word Islam in it. Nor have I found the terms open borders or asylum policy. However, I read all the ingredients for a politically correct look-away conversation. To decide between ourselves that only the buttered parties should be allowed to sit on that committee of inquiry is the best guarantee of a money laundering committee, like the previous committees of inquiry I have experienced here. If you want some credibility, if you really think that this way you will regain confidence, then you grossly underestimate the citizen. The citizen gives you today the disadvantage of the doubt, because everyone knows that it is one big construction for one big political game and for one big umbrella. This afternoon, of course, we shall come back to that, if this is to be discussed on the substance in committee. We will table amendments to correct your mistake. I'm counting on it, but I don't hope for it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are asked to take into account a proposal that was discussed by several parties during the second week of Easter holidays. I must regret that it has not been the subject of a dynamic of discussion including all the political forces present today, so as to create a committee where all the questions, where all the lines of research can be considered. That's what today is about. We are going to have a debate this afternoon on the fond, and that committee is also going to be able to work on the long distance. However, the first question that arises today is why not everyone should be present on that committee. I didn't find any reason to. What's the problem? Most committees are committees in which everyone is represented. Most of the committees we work with are made up of all the groups. What is the problem of having this same inclusive dynamic today? The Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism itself, which is working on the same subject, is composed of different political forces. You will probably retort me not to have thought about it or to ignore who has to make up the commissions, etc. The only thing we know is that your debate took place at the meeting of the group leaders. The representatives of Ecolo-Groen spoke to request the presence of the various political forces in this committee. The debate took place. And it is consciously that you have decided to refuse the presence of certain parties in this committee. What do you have to hide? What questions do you fear? There is no problem, however, since full transparency is required in this debate. You will excuse that this is a commission of inquiry and that, traditionally, the D'Hondt key limits the number of representatives. But let's look at history! It shows that there have already been commissions of inquiry in which parties, possibly without a vote, were present. Let me quote them! In 1997, the commission of inquiry into the events in Rwanda was established. The Volksunie, Ecolo and Agalev were represented, who at the time had no group. In 1988 there was the same situation for the commission of inquiry to examine the scope, causes and consequences of fraud, the breaches of the non-proliferation treaty, which had been committed by the Nuclear Energy Study Centre. In 1996, the commission of inquiry to investigate organised crime in Belgium had representatives of parties that did not yet have a group. What is your fear? Is it possible to give a reply in plenary, a strong argument to say that parties that are not represented in a group cannot sit on this committee. At the moment, through the media, not a single democratic argument has been invoked. Today is a historic day! Indeed, this is the first time in the history of the PTB that we are going to table a 'Bougeois amendment'. This is an important point for us. A Bourgeois amendment for a party that defends workers may seem odd, but it is an amendment inspired by the one tabled by Mr Geert Bourgeois in 1996. I hope that, for example, the N-VA, in the interests of continuity, will vote 'the Bourgeois amendment'. We haven't changed a comma, out of respect for the author. Mr Bourgeois was already clear in 1996. He called for the right of all parliamentarians to be present in this committee. I obviously do not share his socio-economic and ethical options, but on the democratic issue, I find Mr Bourgeois right. He took into account the fact that it was not normal that a party such as the N-VA at the time had not been present on that commission of inquiry. It is that spirit with which Mr Bourgeois defended democracy in 1996, which we want to bring again today by tabling the Bourgeois amendment in Parliament. I hope that all parties will approve this amendment this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u9	Are the two speakers asking for the vote on the recital? I did not hear that in their speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u10	Mr President, the debate on the substance will be held in committee and on Thursday in plenary. However, this is a fundamental point, so I would like to point this out very briefly. Our group has been very keen to contribute to this text. The attacks in Paris and Brussels require serious parliamentary work, an operation of openness and transparency. Colleagues are right to touch a point. It is no secret that our group has put forward proposals in the Conference of Presidents to make that parliamentary committee of inquiry more inclusive and open. I would like to emphasise that. This does not mean that the text before us has no merit, quite the contrary. I want to make that clear because this is something that this Parliament and the political groups, whose opinions I sometimes resent, may also know. If there are proposals along these lines in the next 48 hours, we will support them with the same eagerness as the one with which we will support the text itself. After all, it is important that this committee of inquiry starts quickly. I insisted on making that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u11	I do not understand why the vote is being asked to sit and stand, so I assume that consideration and urgency have been adopted. (Applause) I also suggest that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Marcel Cheron) amending the law of 5 August 1991 on the import, export and transit of and the fight against illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition and equipment and related technology, and the law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, No. 1748/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u12	- the legislative proposal (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) to combat organized ageing and support the circular economy, No. 1749/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u13	I also propose that you take into account - the bill (MM. Benoit Hellings, Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo and Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Marcel Cheron) amending the Act of 5 August 1991 on the import, export, transit and fight against trafficking in arms, ammunition and equipment for special military or law enforcement and related technology, and the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, in order to improve the licences and operations of intermediaries, No. 1748/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u14	- the draft law (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Meyrem Almaci, MM. Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Evita Willaert and Mr MM. Georges Gilkinet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt) on combating organised obsolescence and supporting the circular economy, No. 1749/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u15	Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u16	Mr President, it is the intention of legislative proposal No. 1748 to be sent to the Temporary Committee on Counter-terrorism, because those issues will be dealt with there. This is one of our priorities that we want to address there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u17	I propose that this be sent to the Temporary Committee on Terrorism. The other (no. 1749) will be sent to the Business Commission. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-plenair-ip104x.u18	At the request of the authors, I propose that a parliamentary committee of inquiry be set up to investigate the Molenbeek terrorist cell which already committed terrorist attacks in Paris, No. 1626/1, refer to the Justice Commission. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the Molenbeek terrorist cell which has carried out a series of attacks in Paris, No. 1626/1. This bill was previously sent to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. This proposal had previously been referred to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. At the request of the applicant, I also propose that Mrs Sarah Smeyers' bill amending the Programme Law (I) of 24 December 2002 on custody of unaccompanied minors (No. 1652/1) referred to the Justice Commission. At the author's request, I also propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice, Mrs Sarah Smeyers' bill amending Programme Act (I) of 24 December 2002, with regard to the guardianship of unaccompanied foreign minors (No. 1652/1). This bill was previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 13 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
