ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, for several months, the Office of Foreigners (OE) and CGRA have been accompanied in the processing of applications and identification files in order to identify asylum seekers who may have links with terrorist, jihadist or radical circles. This work is done with the support of the State Security and the SSRS. Recently, a specific screening cell was set up to further strengthen this monitoring work, and on 27 January, some media outlets echoed the arrest of an asylum-seeker at the Fedasil centre in Jumet. Could you tell us, with regard to this particular case, how did the services of the Jumet centre become aware of the ties of membership of this asylum-seeker with a terrorist organization? Through what procedure did the Fedasil services communicate the information to the police? When did this asylum-seeker come to the OE? During the pre-reception treatment, was an identification analysis of the person actually conducted? In view of the screening put in place by the State Security and the SGRS alongside the EO, has this file been the subject of a specific analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u2	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the judicial police contacted the management of the reception centre to explain that an investigation was under way into one of its residents. A member of the suspect's family had denounced him. It was therefore not the reception centre that reported suspicious behaviour or specific facts. The exchange of information took place at the request of the judicial police. The management of the reception centre was in direct contact with the investigators for the transmission of information. Since November, the collaboration agreement between the local police and Fedasil has formalized a number of modalities for collaboration. You know that we have established a protocol between all the departments of the Fedasil centres, the reception centres and the local police about the exchange of information, the reporting of incidents, etc. This is the result of an explicit request from the partners within the government, but also from a few mayors and in particular the mayor of Coxide. Commitments have therefore been made in this regard, which I welcome. In any case, the evaluation of this protocol is very positive. It is very good that we have such a protocol. I think we will always have to have that in the future. That's a real added value. This has been an added value since the reception of refugees in Belgium was organised. It didn't exist before. He applied for asylum on 25 August 2015. A security check shall be carried out at entry by the security companies. It is only then that the identity of the residents is examined. With the new pre-reception system, fingerprints are taken when they arrive. In this way, the procedure is made more efficient. The screening of asylum seekers by the State Security Service and the General Intelligence and Security Service was put in place last September, i.e. after the registration of the applicant in question. Mr. Pivin, I need to provide you with important information. There was a light on in 62 cases. A French-speaking newspaper reported 37 cases of radicalism in the centres. This is now 62 people, even though radicalism does not affect the majority of them. Let me give you an example. Someone is known in the Security of the State because he has followed a certain discipline here in the past, for example nuclear physics. Some subjects are being watched and that is happening all over the world. It is therefore a good thing that lists exist. If that person asks for asylum here, there's a light on. That does not mean, however, that he is coming here to commit a nuclear attack or to use an atomic weapon. You have to be very nuanced. To say, as stated in the press, that 37 cases in reception centres are known cases of radicalism is absolutely not correct. There are 62 people overall, but there are very few known for radicalism. I saw the updated list again yesterday. Every week we do an update. We are working very well with the intelligence services on this issue. I can't guarantee 100% security. I can't give 100 % security. However, I can say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that, among asylum seekers, there are no radicals, fundamentalists, Salafists or terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the very comprehensive answers you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 9195 by Mrs Ben Hamou will be converted into a written question. Mrs Van Cauter is not here. It did not notify or ask for a translation into a written question. Under Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure, I consider question No. 9249 by Mrs Van Cauter as withdrawn. Questions Nos 9278, 9279 and 9280 by Mrs De Coninck are converted into written questions. Mrs Matz has been excused for medical reasons, her question No. 9328 will be put later. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 9336 question was converted into a written question. Mr Clarinval is not here, pursuant to Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure, I consider his question No. 9485 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, in many countries, such as Denmark, the foreign law allows the police to systematically seize the mobile phones of asylum seekers, including to identify the persons who do not have valid papers. This system may also provide information about links with terror or information about the person who is present. It is reported that mobile phones often contain a wealth of information about those involved. Five days after I submitted my question, I read that you started looking at a similar system in Norway. I also read that you would consider whether the Norwegian mobile research in Belgium is likely to succeed. In the meantime, we're two months later. Two IS terrorists have already been identified in Austria in this way. So it is indeed an interesting system. In Belgium, however, the current legislation requires the order of an investigating judge to investigate a mobile phone. Given the circumstances, it seems important to me that this can be adjusted. I therefore have the following questions. Can the Foreign Office or the police in our country take such a measure to identify candidate asylum seekers and obtain information about them? What measures will you take to make it possible here too if there are still legal obstacles to this today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u6	Mrs Pas, that is indeed a very good thing. I didn't know that at first, but during my visit to Norway I found out that it only happens there by order of the investigating judge. That can go super fast there, even via iPhone. They have a kind of alien parquet there, a very interesting idea. Apparently that used to exist in the Foreign Office, right at the beginning, but not anymore. In Norway there is therefore a foreign police and a foreign police. As a result, there is a very rapid interaction between officials, police forces and prosecutors to find out who a person is, if he doesn't want to say it himself or lies about it. Then he's gonna have to drop off his cell phone, laptop, etc. on a warrant. The fact that that stick is behind the door makes sure that 90% does so voluntarily. In fact, that stick should hardly ever be used. Saying who you are, identifying yourself and not lying about it, if you apply for asylum in our country, I find in itself an absolute basic principle of the Geneva Convention. I have therefore instructed my administrations to develop that thinking trail further. I must say that even in Norway, which is outside the European migration contentieux, this is done through judicial review and with police services and so on. We do not currently have a legal basis for civil servants to read out mobile phones. The police can do that in the context of a judicial investigation. It happens sometimes, reading cell phones. This has sometimes proved necessary in recent months, not directly for identification purposes, but especially in the context of suspicious acts or suspicious sympathies. The identification of a migrant is a crucial stage in the asylum procedure. Under Belgian and European law, asylum seekers are obliged to cooperate in all possible ways in identifying and supporting their asylum story. I therefore attach great importance to the identification phase and have my services currently examine what additional measures can and should be taken to this end. I will also come to Parliament with this, because I personally think that is the logic itself. That identity fraud in asylum applications is no longer possible. At the same time, I would also like to focus on the fight against identity fraud in the asylum procedure. To that end, I have established a separate cell of Fraud within the Foreign Affairs Office. You probably read that yourself. So that's what we're working on. I find that not only witnesses of respect, civilization and clarity, I just think it's the most normal thing in the world that when you arrive here as an asylum seeker, you say who you are without lying about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I submitted my question before you left for Norway. The Danish Aliens Act provides that this can be done systematically. I'm guessing it's not going through an investigative judge there. It is quite clear that the way in which an order can be given is much easier in Norway and Austria. You say that you are working on it, but it is, of course, appropriate to act very quickly in this matter. We've warned enough already. IS itself has said that they are sending terrorists with the flow of asylum seekers. Unfortunately, we have already seen the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris and Brussels that this is also the case. IS has again announced that they will continue to do so. I therefore believe that we must make every effort as soon as possible to screen asylum seekers for tyres or links.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is not that we have done nothing. Every asylum seeker is now being screened by the police. This didn't happen a year ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u9	I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u10	A maximum screening shall be carried out by the police and intelligence services during the application. All the services are very short, as I indicated in my reply to Mr Pivin's question. This also results in results. We are working on it and we are not standing still on it. I believe that the Norwegian model is very common sense. It's possible with us, but it's very cumbersome. I agree with you on that point. The study is currently being carried out. You're saying it has to be quick. Believe me, I take that encouragement to heart, but I don't think it's entirely necessary either. I'm working fast, but it's a complex matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u11	The screening should be the logic itself. It is a pity that this did not happen from the beginning. You yourself say that it is still far too cumbersome. I hope, therefore, that I will see a draft law on this matter in Parliament very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kir's 9530 will be converted into a written question. Mrs. Lanjri is not here. We will see if she comes by this morning, if not her question No. 9559 as repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the problem of transit migrants in Calais, Dunkirk and Téteghem is well known and important in our country, as you know. You have been there regularly, albeit on the Belgian side of the border. Many questions have already been put to you in our committee, but also to Minister Jambon and the Prime Minister. The coastal mayors, like the West Flemish governor, have already raised the alarm several times. We also received a letter from them. One of the questions to make the problem more manageable is that in West Flanders there would be an official of the Foreign Affairs Office. Apparently, other provinces would have such an official. West Flanders wouldn't have that at its disposal. However, it is claimed that half of the number of illegally arrested persons in the province of West Flanders is arrested. Therefore, it is a useful idea of the coastal mayors and the governor to have such an official in the province of West Flanders. I have three questions on the subject. Firstly, is it true that many other provinces have their own foreign affairs officer? If so, which provinces are they talking about? Secondly, what is the reason why other provinces do and West Flanders do not have such an official? Thirdly, in your capacity as Secretary of State, how do you view the proposal put forward by the coastal mayors and the governor to have a DVZ official of your own?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u14	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, no liaison officers were appointed per province. So it's not true that West Flanders is being disadvantaged. After all, there are no provincial officials of the Foreign Affairs Office. They don't exist, so that's not right. However, a number of liaison officers have been appointed in the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi in the context of the urban and legal migration problems. They are therefore appointed by city and not by county. However, I have some news in that connection. A DVZ liaison officer will be appointed from 1 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your brief but very good report, which you were able to give in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u16	I note that Mr Clarinval is present, whose question No. 9485 I had withdrawn. Mr Clarinval, I give you some leniency because you were present on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u17	Mr President, thank you for your flexibility. Mr Secretary of State, since the first of February, the City of Couvin has been hosting 266 refugees on the site known as "du Belvédere", which is a former boarding school for young girls. This reception is organised by a private company called Refugee-Assist. It is my responsibility that collaboration between the City of Couvin, Fedasil, Refuge-Assist and your ministry would not be optimal. Indeed, this lack of collaboration hinders the City in its desire to provide a high-quality reception. In any case, that's what the press reports. So, Mr. Secretary of State, can you tell me the history of the steps that led to this reception project? Do you confirm that there is a lack of collaboration between the above-mentioned bodies? What answer do you intend to give to Couvin's communal administration, which deplores the lack of cooperation between federal services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u18	Mr Clarinval, I must inform you in advance that I signed a reply to your letter yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u20	This site is managed by the private operator Refuge-Assist as part of a public procurement. With regard to Fedasil's approach, the following initiatives were taken immediately following the decision of the Council of Ministers to ensure the proper start-up of the reception centre. First of all, the mayor was contacted. Then a meeting with the municipal college was held on 4 January. Then, an information session with the population was held on 26 January. Finally, basic training for the staff of the reception centre has been introduced. Refugee-Assist and Fedasil work together properly. On the other hand, it is clear that, from the outset, the commune opposed this project and did not wish to be integrated into a process of constructive collaboration. I note that, in more than 100 sites reserved for asylum seekers, both sides cooperate under very good conditions. I would like to stress the importance of the mayor's constructive attitude – as you know, I myself am the mayor of a commune that houses a large reception centre. Every month, I make numerous visits to the reception centres and I always talk to the mayors. It is very important to have this link with local authorities. The situation we are dealing with is difficult even if it does not prejudice the daily operation of the reception centre. I regret it, but I hope that the situation will improve in the future. Good collaboration can only be fruitful if we work together on both sides. When Fedasil appeals to my office, we are always at the disposal of the communal authorities to solve together the concrete problems that may arise from the presence of this reception centre in the commune. I have never refused an invitation from a municipality to visit a centre or to hold a constructive meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u21	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this very clear answer. I did not expect any less and, in my turn, I regret that the commune is not more proactive and constructive in this matter. I take note of the hand extended by the minister to the commune to go there in order to calm the situation. I will not fail to inform the local authorities of Couvin about this so that they can grasp this tense hand in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u22	Mr President, the Secretary of State, a month ago, the press published certain figures concerning persons present on Belgian territory who had been ordered to leave the territory. While the government has decided to increase the capacity of closed centres by 30 per cent, it would appear that almost 9,000 people (I think the exact figure was 8,852) illegally present in Belgium in 2014 would currently still be in our territory, whether in closed or not. I know only one precise example, which is not the one I have read, but that of the municipality of which I am the mayor, Koekelberg. In our home, 147 people present in the territory of the commune are struck by an order to leave the territory, this in the last five years. We know the risks of this kind of situation. Persons who had no reason to remain, but who were out-of-law, benefited from the failure to comply with the order to leave the territory from, for example, residence rights linked to family reunification or even the granting of a status that had been denied them four years earlier. Here lies the illogicality of this situation. Mr Secretary of State, what administrative and police procedures are they now monitoring the follow-up of persons who have been ordered to leave the territory? You never lack creativity. What new measures would you have decided to ensure effective compliance with orders to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u23	Mr President, Mr Pivin, SEFOR was established in June 2011 to follow up orders to leave the territory. More precisely, its mission is to follow up all orders to leave the territory that closes a proceeding. Follow-up is regulated by the circular of 10 June. The follow-up procedure is based on voluntary return, on the one hand, and on the organization of forced return, on the other. Upon notification of the order to leave the territory, the alien concerned shall be informed of his or her rights and duties and shall be made aware of the importance of voluntary return with assistance or independently by his or her own means. If the person concerned did not comply with the order to leave the territory, he would be actively sought and could be detained for forced removal. Systematic control of the order to leave the territory is indeed advocated, but it is impossible to exercise it for a large number of illegal residents whose address is unknown. In addition, the number of residence checks depends on the number of places available in closed centres. The increase in the number of places in the latter will therefore make it possible to intensify the checks on residence. With regard to Fedasil's expertise in voluntary returns, since 2012, the concept of return journey has been included in the Home Act. This concept involves actively raising awareness among asylum-seekers, in particular those who have been ordered to leave the territory following a negative decision by the asylum authorities, of the possibilities offered by voluntary return programmes. The Office of Foreigners is making every effort to improve the effective execution of the order to leave the territory by creating additional places in closed centres and by increasing the number of staff of the removal services. In addition, discussions are ongoing with countries of origin at both the national and international levels with a view to improving identification procedures in order to obtain a more rapid pass. As far as the figures are concerned, pursuant to rule 122, b. of the Rules of the House, I cannot provide you with the statistics requested. I would therefore be grateful if you would address a written question to which I would be pleased to respond. Mr. Pivin, the effectiveness of the order to leave the territory is a priority of the government. I believe that the government and the administration have tolerated people illegally staying in Belgium for too long. Follow-up of orders to leave the territory is a top priority. Given the capacity of the closed centres, I can't send anyone back or send everyone back. I had to start in October 2014 with a capacity of only 410 places. This was the lowest number in 15 years in Belgium. In June 2016, the capacity will be 610 places, or an additional 50% in 1.5 years. I will get 70 places on June 1, 2016. Mrs Pas asked me a question about this. 610 places on 1 June. So that's 200 places in 18 months. I believe that this is not a bad thing. Mr Pivin, I agree that this is not enough. It is therefore important, both for the government and for Parliament, to insist on increasing the number of places in closed centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply to the principles. As far as the figures are concerned, I understand that you are inviting me to ask you a written question. But there is a real question about this. If what the press said, that is, more than 8,800 people who had been ordered to leave the territory in 2014, were still present in 2015, it is worrying. If we combine these figures with those of previous years, we can wonder how many tens of thousands there are in this case and how many places in closed centres you have to arrive to solve the problem. But before I draw this kind of conclusion, I'll ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u25	I must also tell you that it is not only the lack of places in closed centres that is problematic but also the fact that we must have agreements with the countries of origin. In this regard, I am very pleased that on Friday Moroccan Minister of the Interior Mohamed Hassad is coming to Belgium. I hope that we will finalize the negotiations, which began 16 years ago, and that we will be able to sign the readmission agreement for Moroccans without right of residence in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u26	Let's cross our fingers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, I come back to a question I asked earlier because you said at that time that you were not entirely sure and that you wanted to investigate it further. I have asked you about the issue of visas in the framework of voluntary exchange programmes. With the law on volunteering, a bill that I had tabled and which has now been approved, introduced on 22 May 2014, we have changed the rights of volunteers and we have also given people in care and other groups who are legally resident here access to volunteering. However, we have included in the law that the exercise of volunteering in itself does not constitute a basis for obtaining a residence permit. We explicitly registered this because a number of groups feared that people would say that they were well integrated through their voluntary work and that they would therefore also expect a residence permit. We have made it very clear that this was not the intention and that doing voluntary work could not give rise to a residence permit. Now the DVZ obviously misinterprets that. The DVZ interprets it so that we cannot give visas to people who want to volunteer from abroad in our country. For example, there are cases of AFS refusing an application for volunteering because it would appear to be in the law on volunteering. At least that was not the intention and I do not think it is in the law. So there is a problem of interpretation. As before the amendment of the law, it must of course be possible for people who come from abroad to volunteer in our country to continue to do so. The only thing we want to avoid is that people would wrongly think that by doing a little volunteering they would be more likely to have a residence permit if they were rejected as asylum seekers. That's what we've been trying to avoid. However, it has never been the intention to prevent people from volunteering in our country. I asked you a question and you said you wanted to investigate it further. In the meantime, what did the investigation prove? Has there been an accidental misinterpretation of the law by the DVZ in the past? Have you had any conversations with the sector? I suppose so. Has that problem been solved in the meantime? How are we gonna fix this for good? Wouldn't it be good if you gave the DVZ an instruction? You can clarify it for the DVZ but you may also be able to give an instruction so that this certainly does not depend on the official who examines the file and does not give a certain interpretation one time and another next time. In my humble opinion, there is no need to change the law. However, if that is necessary or if it is useful, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u28	Mrs Lanjri, you reiterate in your question the fact that the DVZ would refuse visas under exchange programmes. As mentioned in reply to your question of 18 December, DVZ does not refuse these applications. However, a distinction must be made between exchange students and volunteering. The DVZ's interpretation of the 2014 law on volunteers is as I announced on 18 December. The 2014 law on volunteering has not changed that. An authorisation to stay solely on the basis of voluntary work is not possible. The only exceptions are volunteering in the framework of European Voluntary Services (EVS) or volunteering through a recognised institution. This was so before the 2014 law amendment on volunteering and this is also the situation following the 2014 law amendment. Whether a legislative change is needed for volunteers will be studied when the new directive on students, researchers and volunteering will be transposed into national legislation. The translation is being carried out at European level. This new Directive will be adopted by the European Parliament in May and will have to be transposed into national law by mid-2018. So that's before this legislature. I have not ordered an examination of all visa applications under exchange programmes, but I do not exclude the possibility that a visa application was ever wrongly rejected. My cabinet, the Department of Foreign Affairs and some recognised exchange organisations have recently been put together in order to pursue an even more efficient migration policy for the exchange students. Especially with the transposition of the new Student Directive, cooperation between DVZ and the exchange organisations will and will continue to be necessary. During the meeting with the exchange organisations, it was agreed that JINT, in cooperation with other institutions, would draw up a new list of recognized institutions in Belgium, allowing the Department of Foreign Affairs to deal with the files more quickly and efficiently. After verification, the Foreign Affairs Office will also communicate this information to the diplomatic and consular posts. This will allow for the automatic issue of the visa. At present, if in doubt, the application is being forwarded to DVZ, which increases the duration of the visa issue. We have sat together, there will be a new list of recognized institutions and I will pass that on. There is, of course, also the transposition of the Student Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I hope that will solve the problem. I have received emails about it: there are known cases in which people were denied access to AFS exchange programmes. If this belongs to the past, okay. If that can be further remedied by drawing up that list, I certainly support it. This really shouldn't happen again. It must be clear that the law on volunteering did not aim to affect foreign volunteers or people coming to our country in the framework of exchange programmes. We didn't want that then, and we don't want that today. In this way, the interpretation of the law must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, several months ago it was announced that the pre-reception services of the Office of Foreigners (OE) were now accompanied by the security services in order to detect false asylum seekers who could have links with terrorist, jihadist and radicalized circles. I referred to it in my first question. On 27 January, the police arrested an asylum-seeker in the Jumet centre. It appears that this person did have such connections. On February 5, the government decided to set up a "radicalism" coordination unit within the Foreign Office. Could you let us know if any other similar cases have been detected in the Fedasil centre in Jumet since September 2015? On the basis of what specific information or suspicion criteria do the services of the Office of Foreigners and the Office of the Commissioner-General contact the State Security? You mentioned a family report earlier, but I assume that other criteria are taken into account or that the information comes spontaneously from the Foreign Office. What is the "quadruple" control defined by the services? What are the different procedures? Is the coordination unit "radicalism" in operation within the Office of Foreigners? What exactly does his mission consist of? How many people will make it up or compose it if it is not yet operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pivin, in fact, other cases have been detected, but their links with radicalized circles still need to be confirmed. I have already answered the question with figures. The facts and articles in the press must be nuanced because I do not want the citizens to think that there is a great problem of radicalism among the groups of asylum seekers. That's not reality. We must not deny that some potentially dangerous radicalized elements reside in the centres and some are incarcerated. It is not true, however, that out of thousands of refugees, there is a fundamental problem of Salafism and radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u32	One is not a significant part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u33	As far as this case is concerned, only one individual can be significant when he or she causes an attack and the death of some 30 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u34	One is already too much, but that's not a significant part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u35	Eén is significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u36	Mrs Lanjri, you do not have the floor. An oral question is now being put, it is not a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u37	I'm not going to start arguing about that. I think my colleague and friend Mr Jambon will answer these questions this afternoon. I want to nuance some articles. It's important. I've already said it and I'm going to say it again. I speak a lot with people in Flanders; and you too as a mayor. People are worried. It is important to give the correct information and not deny it. We must not sweep the problems under the mat. We need to tell the truth and say things the way they are. Is there a problem? There have been a number of problems. One case may be too much. We have to play the ball very briefly. However, it is not true that among the 10,000 asylum seekers there are hundreds of Salafists. That is absolutely not clear from our investigation. However, we do four screenings per asylum seeker. The quadruple control takes place according to the following steps. First, the Foreigners' Office is trying to identify asylum-seekers who appear. They shall communicate their names and submit, if possible, identification documents, such as passports, identity cards or military booklets. Photos and fingerprints of each of them are taken and stored. The fingerprints are then compared in a data bank of the Foreign Office, known as Printrak. The latter systematically searches the Schengen Information System (SIS) to verify whether the person is being reported for non-admission. He then forwards the list of names and aliases of all asylum-seekers to the State Security and Military Intelligence. These services then control the names in the specialized data banks. The police also conduct an audit of the public policy component. The General National Data Bank (GNB) is consulted for each asylum-seeker who registers. All aliases are controlled. The Federal Police and the Agency work closely with the intelligence services to track cases and exchange information. This quadruple screening is not a definitive response. Indeed, the Office of Foreigners and the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons may contact the Security at any time during and after the procedure with a view to informing it of a problematic profile. An even more in-depth investigation can then be undertaken by the Sûreté. The task of the "radicalism" coordination unit within the Office, for its part, is already clearly identified. Four components are being developed. To put it plainly, the cell is installed. First of all, it is a follow-up to the screening of individual asylum-seekers' files. Secondly, the Office of Foreigners has a support service under the R plan and, as such, is required to participate in the various activities that are organized. The Radicalism cell within the Foreign Affairs Department is therefore part of the Plan-R and participates in all activities. The cell also gets together a lot. An important task of that cell, for example, is to follow those hits. What happens to everyone? That's all that matters. Thirdly, the main objective of this working group is to strengthen the exchange of relevant information between asylum and migration bodies with, on the one hand, Fedasil, the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons and the Office of Foreigners and, on the other hand, the security and intelligence services (OCAM, State Security, General Intelligence and Security and Police Service), and to identify effective channels of exchange. Fourthly, an analysis of the current situation at both strategic and operational levels will be developed with regard to situations of radicalism and terrorism. For this "radicalism" unit within the Office, I got a government budget to hire five people at level A. We already have three, the other two will follow. We have created a "radicalism" cell that works very well and will therefore be reinforced by five people. My office is represented in this cell. For me, this is a top priority because there is a lot of concern in society about asylum seekers, and we must respond firmly and with concrete actions, particularly with regard to the follow-up of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u38	What is the profile of the people who are recruited? What is their journey?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u39	The three persons already engaged have experience within the Agency. These are detachments. They dealt with sensitive cases, including orders to leave the territory, and serious crime. The remaining two people will come from outside but will have to have a similar profile.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 9593 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u41	Mrs. Smeyers cannot be here this morning. Mrs Pas, that does not prevent you from asking your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, there are many countries that have now expanded the so-called list of safe countries of origin. This list contains countries which are not considered to be at risk and therefore have virtually no chance of obtaining asylum in other countries. Such asylum applications can therefore be dealt with very quickly and should normally also be rejected. In Belgium, this is a very short list of seven countries: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia, Montenegro, FYROM and India. Germany has recently expanded its list with Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria. In the United Kingdom, no less than 26 countries are marked as safe on the list. In the Netherlands, a whole range of countries has been added to the list. It is now being examined to add countries to the list. You too have played with the idea to expand the list. However, you have received a negative opinion from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, in order to extend that list. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, this is, of course, just an opinion from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. You're not bound by that advice. Have you already taken a new initiative to effectively place a number of countries on the list of safe countries? Which countries are you thinking of? Can you give us a time limit within which we can count on something to happen? Secondly, can you explain the opinion of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless? Are you willing to put the advice next to you? After all, it is strange that a whole range of countries that receive negative advice here can be placed on the list of safe countries in other European countries, such as Denmark, France and Germany, which are all civilised Western European countries until further notice. Will there be another initiative? What is your position on Turkey? In the current government's reasoning regarding asylum and migration agreements with someone like Erdogan, who basically agrees with the abolition of the visa requirement for Turkish citizens, who basically agrees with the opening of new chapters in the accession negotiations with a country like Turkey, it would be logical that a country such as Turkey should be added to the list of safe countries. So I would have liked to have heard the views of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u43	Mrs. Pas, you have to keep things apart. Turkey on the list of safe countries, if that's your party's position, well...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u44	No, you should not distort my words, Mr Secretary of State, I said that according to the logic of this government that deals with Erdogan, which basically agrees with the abolition of the visa requirement and which basically agrees with the opening of new chapters in the accession negotiations, it would be logical for Turkey to be on the list of safe countries as well. So it was certainly not my party's position but a logical consequence of the actions of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u45	Of course, what you're saying isn't right. There is a great difference between safe countries of origin and safe third countries. That is fundamentally different. A safe country of origin means that the inhabitants of that country are perceived here as safe in their own country. A safe third country means that third parties, such as Syrians, are safe in Turkey. So that is fundamentally different. If you ask me whether I think Turkey is a safe country and whether it should be on the list of safe countries, then I tell you that this is not the case in view of the situation with the Kurds. Clearly no. However, if you ask me if I think Turkey is a safe third country, the answer is yes. Erdogan bombs the Kurds, not the Syrians in Turkey. That's a big difference. One often makes an amalgam of those two terms. They are confused, but there is a fundamental difference, including international law, in the definitions and concepts of the Convention and, above all, of the European Asylum Procedure Directive. I can only stress that this is a fundamental difference for the Belgian Government as well. As far as your question on safe countries of origin is concerned, I would first of all like to stress that the competence for drawing up the list of safe countries lies not only with me. In accordance with Belgian law, it is the State Secretary responsible for Asylum and Migration and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. Minister Reynders, who, following the opinion of the CGVS, submit a draft to the Council of Ministers. In this respect, I can confirm that in order to update the list of safe countries of origin, which should be done by 1 June, 12 January and 5 February, I asked the Commissioner-General for a total of 12 countries. In addition to the seven countries already on the list today, I have asked the Commissioner-General for additional opinions on Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Georgia and Senegal. I expect those advices this week. They weren't in this morning. I am in full expectation and very curious. The dossier will be submitted to the Council of Ministers before 1 June. It should not go to the Council of State, but it must go to 1 June, so it is urgent. You say that many countries have already expanded their list. You need to be careful with that. A number of countries have asked their services to examine whether these countries are allowed on the list, but this is not yet the case in many countries. There's a difference. In Germany. It was announced with a lot of poeha, but it is less clear whether those countries are already on it. In addition to Germany, Austria and the Netherlands have recently announced that they will place Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria on the list of safe countries or at least have this possibility examined. That's a difference. I've had the opportunity examined, but they're not on the list yet. Whether they will be on the list will depend on the opinion of the Commissioner-General, which I will receive this week. I do not think that these countries have already extended their lists, because they have a similar procedure whereby an independent body must first give an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u46	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I referred to the Netherlands, where Secretary of State Dijkhoff has already effectively added many countries, in particular Ghana, India, Jamaica, Morocco, Mongolia and Senegal. Algeria, Georgia, Ukraine, Tunisia and Turkey are at the stage of research to which you refer. So there is already some movement in other countries. For example, the United Kingdom has a list of 26 countries, even though it makes a distinction between men and women in terms of safety for some countries. I have not received an answer to my question as to whether that opinion is binding and whether you will follow it. I assume you'll follow it. I am curious to see how large the extension of the current short list will be. Finally, as far as Turkey is concerned, I fully agree with you that it is not a safe country for the Kurds there, but I do not understand that such a country is being dealt with and that Turkey is being followed in the context of the accession negotiations and the abolition of visa requirements. This is a country that does not even respect human rights for its own people. That logic escapes me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u47	Mr President, I apologise for being late. I had to go from one commission to another. I have heard part of the answer from the Secretary of State. It appears that the opinion of the Commissioner-General is still waiting. I hope that Germany's example of extending the list will be followed. My question was mainly about Tunisia, which, in my view, has an opportunity to be regarded as a safe country of origin. The dissuasive effect of including a country on that list cannot be underestimated and it is therefore also important for the Commissioner-General to give a positive opinion. However, I understand that we still have to wait for this opinion. However, there is some hurry. I therefore assume that the Secretary of State will remind the Commissioner-General of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u48	Mrs. Pas, I like to hear it. You mentioned Jamaica and Mongolia. The number of asylum applications made by people from Jamaica is relatively low. It is therefore particularly irrelevant whether or not that country is on that list. Mongolia ditto. I do not think it is wise to seek an opinion from the Commissioner-General on this issue during this asylum crisis. Such an opinion is a very thick document which two people have been working on for a long time. You should read such advice. I would prefer these people to deal with asylum applications rather than to produce an opinion for countries that are totally irrelevant in our asylum statistics. I can make you a list of 30 countries of which 25 never apply for asylum. I think the length of the list is extremely irrelevant. We need to focus on countries from which asylum applications are made. The Maghreb countries and a number of African countries are interesting in this respect. I will ask for advice on these countries. However, I am not going to ask for advice on a country such as Syria or Afghanistan because that would be completely absurd. I would ask for opinions on countries on which a positive opinion could possibly be delivered. The question has also been raised as to whether this opinion is binding. According to the law, this opinion is non-binding, but contrary to the opinion of the Commissioner-General, there is a huge increase in the risk of destruction of all the professions in the RV. This decision can still be overruled and the government can still decide to include these countries in the list. All those involved then appeal, to which the RV then suspends the decisions because the Commissioner-General considers the countries unsafe. Then where is it? They've been very tough. In a few months' time, you will tell me why the RV is breaking all my decisions. We must always find the golden middle ground in this. I also hope that the list can be extended. Like I said, I'll wait for the advice. This advice is not legally binding, but it is difficult to take it into account de facto. Finally, you are also talking about the deal with Turkey. However, there is no other solution. At least I haven't heard them yet. You can't build a wall in the sea. The distance between Turkey and Greece is one nautical mile, which you can swim over on a beautiful summer day. It is true that a solution had to be found with Turkey to stop the uncontrolled influx of asylum. That's what worked. You're giving the asylum figures. Last month there was the lowest influx in seven years, Mrs. Pas. We do our best, we do it all the time. Not making a deal with Turkey about what was going on in the area was unthinkable. Turkey lies on the globe where it lies, in a crucial place between the Middle East and Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u49	As far as the latter is concerned, you also know that in the meantime the route through Italy has a spectacular increase in influx. Moreover, the deal may well be on the rise, because President Erdogan insists on abolishing the visa requirement as soon as possible, if not, he will not follow up on the deal. However, that is another discussion. You can make it a caricature. I did not ask for Syria and Afghanistan to be included on the list of safe countries. I referred to Germany, where Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria were added. These seem to me to be interesting countries for the list. The Netherlands has also added Morocco to the list. Tunisia is still under investigation, Morocco has already been added. It's about those countries. Of course, it is not just an opinion that is being ignored. However, if I see that it is possible for the same countries in the Netherlands and Germany, then I wonder why it would not be possible for us to give a negative opinion on the same countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u50	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question dates back to 9 March and concerns the pre-registration of asylum seekers. According to a number of people, you have already said this, too, and there would be pre-registration of asylum seekers by the DVZ. This would include fingerprinting, ensuring asylum seekers that they would not be included in EURODAC as long as they did not apply for asylum. They will receive a letter with information about the procedure that will then be followed. On the basis of this pre-registration, an initial triage would apparently be done of the candidate asylum seekers who have access to the pre-care facility. The most vulnerable may then immediately go to the pre-care facility, other only at 15:00. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. What is currently the capacity utilisation rate for pre-care? Is pre-care still needed at the moment? There has been a reduction in the number of asylum applications in recent months. Are there not enough free places at the moment to register people immediately and forward them to regular care, as was the case in the past? In February 2016, there were fewer applications than in February 2015, so it seems logical to go back to last year's situation, where people are registered and immediately forwarded to regular care. In my view, pre-care is only necessary at times when not everyone can go to regular care. How many places are currently unoccupied in regular care? What is the reason for such a system of pre-registration? Is that a deal within the government? Is it true that it is used to determine who is invited to DVZ, or is that just a rumor? Who does this selection and on what criteria does this happen? Is it true that this pre-registration is seen as a reflection phase, which is why the asylum seekers receive a letter with information about the procedure? Is it true that fingerprints will be taken to ensure that the alien is not included in the EURODAC system? Is this not contrary to the relevant directives? After all, they oblige us to register effectively every asylum seeker on the territory. If they apply for asylum in our country, they must also be registered. If they are already registered in another safe European country, we can still send them back to that country as they could have applied for asylum there. I think that is contrary to the relevant directives. How exactly does that happen? Is Belgium not obliged to register everyone who is on our territory and to immediately include that registration in the EURODAC system, in order to ensure correct compliance with the Dublin directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, it was indeed a very strange decision to start pre-registration. The reports on this date from the beginning of March, our questions also date from that period. I am very curious about the current state of affairs. I wonder if you are still holding on to that pre-registration at the moment, because there are serious problems. My questions to you are the following. Are you prepared to step away from pre-registration, if it still exists? Why did you enter that pre-registration into the Foreign Office? Why are the fingerprints taken apparently not stored in the EURODAC system, in accordance with the EU Regulation of 26 June 2013? Are you willing to do so? Are you aware of the risk that, after pre-registration but before the actual registration, asylum seekers will not have their fingerprints in the system of transit to other countries without being found on the radar? What is the involvement of the cabinet in these phases of pre-registration and registration? Who decides when and which people will be called for full registration after pre-registration? How do you guarantee that the administration can do its job without interference from the cabinet? It is our view that the deterrent of asylum seekers in our country goes far too far. There is nothing against informing correctly through a letter, including the possible obstacles in the procedure, the uncertain outcome and so on. However, it should also be mentioned, in all communications, that the right to asylum still exists in Belgium and that war refugees can still count on protection. You often forget these two elements in recent months. We also received reports that the DVZ informally discourages people with certain nationalities before the actual research has started. Are you prepared to consider this suggestion? How big is the influx at the DVZ right now? How much of the pre-care capacity is used? There was a pre-registration, but you said that the influx has been falling seriously in the last few days and weeks. You even talked about reducing the number of regular shelters. I am therefore very interested in the current state of pre-registration and pre-care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u52	I would point out that Mr Hellings is not present for his question No. 10094.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, my question is not so much about pre-registration, about which I do not support the doubts and reservations expressed by the previous questioner. It is more about pre-care, which was created in September last year for those who wish to register as asylum seekers, but who, because of the maximum capacity of 250 entries per day at the Foreign Affairs Office, are asked to register in the following days. For humane reasons, you have instructed Fedasil to organise the pre-care on the vacant floors of the WTC buildings. This was a sensible choice, especially in order to avoid the periodic penalty payments which unfortunately were sometimes made in the previous legislatures. We learn from the past. Initially there was a lot of criticism of the limited hygiene and privacy facilities, but later there were showers and lockers placed. Mr Secretary of State, can you give an update on the number of people who have so far been taken into account in the WTC buildings? Can you also give an overview of the costs of pre-care? Do these affect Fedasil's budget? I suppose so. What facilities are currently available in the WTC building? Have the conditions and conditions changed since the establishment of pre-reception sites, or are there any changes planned? Is this reception of a structural nature? If not, how long do you think it will be necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to know that everyone has a bed, including in pre-care. It is very important to keep mentioning that. Why has this system been introduced at a time when the influx is so low? Prior safety screening was introduced, among other things, to ensure safety before pre-care. This additional security check was explicitly requested by the Red Cross and Croix-Rouge, who, as reception partners, operate the pre-care system. Police screening is in fact essential, both from the point of view of the safety of the pre-care residents and of the staff. In addition, we were informed by various services that pre-care was abused by persons who had no intention of applying for asylum in Belgium. By introducing the prior security screening, we see that one third of the candidates for pre-care have not done so. Finally, the additional screening allows to focus more on the most vulnerable. Is pre-care still needed at the moment? Aren't there enough free spaces? In the regular reception network, many temporary sites and emergency sites will soon be closed, such as the sites located in holiday areas. I met in Lommel yesterday. Lommel was closed last week and other sites, such as Lombardsijde, are closed. There's a constant evolution in that network. Certain commitments were made and some locations were open for a certain period. As a result, capacity utilisation will increase again. It's actually gone up again. When looking at monitoring, it is noted that capacity utilisation has increased again in recent days as a number of sites have been reduced due to contractual and other commitments. Moreover, the rate of utilisation of 94 % is the actual limit. For example, not every bed is slept in rooms for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u56	No. The actual limit is 94 %. Last week the capacity utilisation rate was 84 or 85 % and now it is 88 or 89 %. It has risen again because a number of sites have closed. Finally, it is recommended that a certain margin should be introduced in case the influx would attract significantly again. That's good, good governance. As a result, pre-care is still indispensable at the moment. I would not like to experience that, like last August, I have to come back from vacation to answer questions and interplays about a Maximilian park that is full of people for whom there is no room. We must remain serious and provide adequate reception. Then I think that a pre-care system remains absolutely necessary. I'm willing to argue for that. I believe that now pleading for the reduction or cessation of pre-care is a sign of a lack of realism and intellectualism is not entirely correct either. It is easy to suggest that pre-care is no longer necessary, that everyone should be taken in and that pre-care should be closed. This summer the reverse question will probably arise, namely why the pre-care is closed. With all due respect, I will not be caught up in such statements again. For all I care, pre-care remains absolutely necessary. I'm not alone with that opinion. What are the selection criteria? Who's gonna see to those criteria? Each day, the Foreign Affairs Office makes a selection based on the prior security screening data. There is one clear rule of priority, namely that vulnerable persons should always be given priority over non-vulnerable persons. That concept is widely interpreted and includes anyone who is not a healthy single adult man. So we take a very broad interpretation of that concept. During the screening, the DVZ determines which candidate asylum seeker is vulnerable. Finally, vulnerable asylum seekers will be given the opportunity to register directly in pre-care, while adult men will be able to register together at 15:00. The system therefore guarantees the very best treatment of vulnerable asylum seekers. There's a lot of them. The rest of the registration invitations shall be made chronologically. The cabinet is not involved in the selection. The question claims that I use the information letter as a reflection phase and thus hope to discourage people. What's in the letter? The letter contains accurate facts and data, which are relevant to any asylum seeker who wishes to apply for asylum in our country. The data relate to the long duration of the asylum procedure at present, to the collective nature of the reception, to the long procedure for family reunification, to the fact that Belgium applies the Dublin procedure without distinction according to nationality and to the imminent temporary nature of the refugee status, which was approved last week in the Chambers Committee and will be presented to the plenary next week. The letter also draws the attention of asylum seekers to the assistance offered by the government on voluntary return. Although this is not the reason why we started the prior safety screening exercise, it is obviously more efficient to provide that information with the candidate asylum seekers at the screening stage. With regard to fingerprints, we point out that fingerprints are effectively taken. They are introduced into the Evibel national database, allowing an immediate security screening based on the data of the federal police. The fingerprints are therefore necessary for the safety screening. A side effect of this is that fingerprinting deters people who have no intention of applying for asylum in our country, but only want to use pre-care as a free patch on their way to another country. So those are the transit migrants. This phenomenon has been reduced to zero or almost zero by the new system, which is a very good thing. After all, there was a substantial number of people who did not want to apply for asylum in Belgium at all. Those fingerprints should not be entered in EURODAC. Belgium must register only those foreigners who have applied for asylum in EURODAC 1 and those who have entered illegally through Belgium in EURODAC 2. Persons in pre-care are not covered by any of those categories. Only after effective registration will they be registered in the system. This is common practice in several EU Member States, including Germany. I do not see how that would be contrary to the relevant directives. Germany has been doing this for months, long before we started doing that. Some always refer to Germany as the best example. Well, I can say that I am in any case prepared to follow Germany in this area, but not in many other areas. There is a possibility that some of them may move on to other countries. However, this is already happening on a large scale from other EU countries, especially Germany. From Germany, some people go to Belgium and also to the Netherlands to apply for asylum. Again, for the record, everyone gets a bed, bath and bread from the moment he indicates that he wants to apply for asylum. There is now simply a prior security screening, at the explicit request of the partners. Now I'm giving you some basic figures. Since Monday 7 September 2015, it is possible to use pre-care facilities in the nearby WTC 3 office building for 300 people and 500 people since 19 September. Since 1 October an additional capacity of 500 places has been opened on WTC 3 site B, run by the Red Cross. Since December 10th, another 120 places have been added on site B and since January 1st, two more floors have been added, with a total of 1 300 places. In the first months of 2016, the capacity utilisation rate of pre-care gradually decreased. At the beginning of January 2016, almost 600 people made use of the pre-care facility, but at the end of March 2016, only 71 people were left. So that number has fallen very much. Let us all welcome this. On 25 March 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the proposal to reduce pre-care to 640 places for the month of April. On Friday, I will present to the Council of Ministers an evaluation of pre-care, as agreed. So we will look at how we will proceed in the coming months. In any case, it would be particularly careless to stop pre-care. On the other hand, there may not be a 640 seats available for 70 people. For the sake of clarity, I would add that we do not pay for 640 places per day, but on invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, the capacity utilisation rate is 88 percent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u58	No, that's in the shelter network. That's something else, that's not about pre-care. An overview of the costs. The cost of pre-care is based on a rate of 38 euros per place per day. The real cost charged by Croix-Rouge for the operation of site A in the period from 7 September to 31 December was 2 123 000 euros. For January 2016, the real costs are estimated by Croix-Rouge at EUR 393 000. No data are available for February, March and April. The real costs charged by the Red Cross for the operation of site B in the months from October to December 2015 amounted to 846 000 euros. For January, real costs are estimated at EUR 454 000. What are the provisions at the moment? Since Monday 7 September, the possibility is offered to use pre-care facilities in the vacant first floor of the nearby WTC 3. In consultation with the Prime Minister, the pre-registration offer has been extended since 16 September to an offer 24 hours on 24, 7 days on 7, initially for 300 people, later for 500 people and then for 1 300 people, now reduced to 640 people. As always, there are three meals a day, medical care and guidance. The conditions for access are still the same, but they must now want to give their fingerprints. That scares a lot of people. That's why some people don't want to do it anymore. These are mainly transit migrants. There was a network operating from Germany, Germany-Brussels and Brussels-Zeebrugge, trying to get Iranians to reach England. So they used the pre-care in Brussels as a kind of free hotel. Now that they have to give their fingerprints, of course they don't want to do that anymore. That is one of the phenomena that is now avoided with the new system, which I support 100% and which I will continue to defend very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, you say we need to do security screening. There's no way we can do these security screenings. If the number of asylum applications remains low and there is no longer any need for pre-care in the long term, then security screening will continue, and that is right. They used to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u61	I know they didn't take place before pre-care. At the request of the Red Cross, they will now. I'll put it another way. You yourself say that the capacity utilisation rate is 94 %. So far you can go. You are now at 88 %. Then there is still a margin of 6 %. There are 35 000 shelters, I believe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u62	Less.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u63	Okay. Even then, we will reach some 2 000 places that are available? Or maybe there are only 1 000 available? Even then, I do not understand why you cannot immediately send these 71 or 100 people, especially when you know that there are precarious families who need immediate care. That's my question. I'm not saying you have to abolish pre-care all of a sudden. You know, Mr Secretary of State, that in September we urged the government to create pre-care facilities. Everyone agreed, we did, and it turned out to be a good system. It is effectively needed as a buffer. So I support you when you say that we need to keep pre-care for a while. We do not have a glass ball, but it is not certain that the inflow will remain low. Whether, for example, you leave 300 pre-care places empty and consider them as buffers, or leave those places unoccupied in regular care stays the same? If these buffer places are not really needed in pre-care, use regular care. If the capacity utilisation rate in the reception is falling even further, it is now 88 %, which is rather low, there is room. You'll have over 1,000 seats. We need to make the right calculation. I do not understand why we still have to use the detour of pre-care. Use it if it is necessary and retain it as buffer places for the time being, certainly do not cancel it immediately. However, one should not necessarily maintain it or use it if there are regular places. Finally, something continues to amaze me, including for Germany. The European regulations and directives are clear. There has also been a condemnation of the sweeping policy we had. The Balkan route was an example of this: transit migrants, go on to the country of your choice. Now we're in on it! Now we tell transit migrants that, if they prefer to go to another country, they can because we prefer not to have them here. That is why we do not register them definitively and may move on. That needs to be investigated. Maybe that's where Germany goes wrong, like many other countries. It is not because other countries go wrong that we should do the same. If we want to keep Dublin up and use Dublin itself to send people back when they are registered, it is not logical that we should not register migrants properly ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u64	That's right, but I didn't say we shouldn't register them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with Mrs Lanjri's remarks. A number of elements in your answer lack some logic. You are defending the pre-registration system as an additional security check, but that argument does not apply, because you yourself say that the influx has dropped. So why don't we register everyone who's coming forward? After all, when you register, the fingerprints are taken as well. Security checks can therefore be carried out at that time. After registration, people go to pre-care immediately. There's room, that's what you said. The pre-care occupation is low. You have given the digit: 70 occupied places. There's a gap in your reasoning there. The only explanation I can find why it is not recorded immediately is that this creates an additional threshold. In your pre-registration system, which is totally unnecessary, a refugee wishing to apply for asylum cannot do so immediately. He is pre-registered, after which he goes to pre-care. Only the most vulnerable asylum seekers can go there immediately. There is indeed a gap of several hours. A refugee who wants to apply for asylum cannot do so immediately, although the current influx could do so perfectly. The second element of my reply is about the following. You reply that the fingerprints are stored in a national database at pre-registration. Why aren't they stored in EURODAC? After all, it is a policy of perpetuation. It is a risk of waving policy, whereby people who are pre-registered and stored in a national database continue to travel. So their fingerprints aren't in a European database. So what are you doing? I don't get it. The only explanation I can find is that you want to create an extra threshold or an extra deterrent. It fits the system. We have seen the letters of the past few months. It is simply about the next step, to deter legitimate war refugees from coming to Belgium, to register immediately and to apply for asylum immediately. Mr President, I come to my last point, namely regular reception. Mr Secretary of State, I agree that we should not abolish pre-care. I do not want another tent camp, which is, after all, proof of the failure of the government. We have allowed such a camp for weeks. Mrs Smeyers, I would like to make a historic correction. It is only after the Prime Minister's intervention that a full pre-care system has been established. The government was not wise at first; your secretary of state was certainly not. Mr Secretary of State, the tent camp in the Maximilian Park has been a sign of the failure of your policy. I don't want to see such a camp in my capital anymore. I don't want to see that anywhere. I want a full pre-care from day one, if necessary. So let us not close the pre-care system effectively. Nevertheless, I would like to give you the following message. Pay attention to the too rapid dismantling of the regular shelters. We're at it again. Also in the run-up to the peak in August 2015, the reception sites were quickly closed down, as we warned at that time. We shall now formally give that second warning to the report. It can be perfect that the influx rises again during spring or summer. We'll end up in the same mess again. We will then again have a shortage of shelters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u66	Mr De Vriendt, would you like to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u67	Mr President, I would like to conclude my reply with my last message, which includes a warning which I certainly want to see acted on in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u68	Mr De Vriendt, I believe that the Secretary of State has made it very clear that he is not himself in favour of abolishing this pre-care system, so you should not now suggest that he has said so. However, you are doing everything in your power to point out that the government has decided to organise this pre-conception. I certainly do not share your view that these tent camps are a result of the failing policy. I regret this, because you are usually very constructive and objective, Mr De Vriendt. You also know that this was simply a result of the massive influx at the time. I believe that a humane solution was found to this problem through pre-care. Apparently, pre-care is a little less crowded now. This will be discussed at the Council of Ministers on Friday. I share the Secretary of State's view that this should not be completely reduced. We should keep a certain buffer in hand. I do not like Mrs Lanjri's idea of receiving people from pre-care in the regular asylum centres at all. This seems to me to be a totally wrong choice, and it is not desirable at all to take both statutes together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u69	Mr President, I was talking about 35 000 places, but it would be 35 500 places. I want to believe you because you're the Secretary of State. I thought there were 35 000, but apparently it would even be about 35 500.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u70	I'll let you get the exact numbers. As far as pre-care is concerned, I do not think it should be forgotten that the partners explicitly asked for it to be retained and that everyone should be immediately registered in the network. I'm sorry, but I can't. We can't keep a certain buffer. The owner of WTC 3 wants the story to stop when pre-care stops. He has made it very explicit that he wants to get out of the building as soon as possible. So you're wrong if you think we're gonna keep that building open for a while and pay for those very expensive places. One of the main reasons to go from 1300 to 600 places was just because those places are so expensive. We're in a saving operation. We need to shut down that building. We're not gonna keep 600 places open for buffer. I much prefer buffering places in the regular network, as is normally provided and as has always been done in the past. I'm gonna keep calling safety very important. That screening is important. This is happening in many European countries. There has not yet been any condemnation of this, not even a single finger from the European Commission. So I very much doubt whether all this would be illegal, as you say. To prove otherwise, you certainly can't make that clear. So I'm still in favour of this story. This is absolutely necessary, at the request of the partners, at the request of Fedasil and of dispatching. This way they can organize the places in the network much better because they know who will come in when. This pre-care system ensures better quality and also more comfort for the employees, who have been particularly upset in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u71	I wasn't aware of the landlord's element. I have the impression that we're using people to keep that building open, even if it's not necessary. But I do understand that this is a government concern. Maybe we should take a good look and organize that pre-conception somewhere else where there's no blackmail. That's what I call buffering places. Now we're gonna put people in that building, which isn't really necessary, just because the landlord says he's gonna close the building when the last asylum seeker leaves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u72	It's not just that. I didn't say that. I have just mentioned the reasons why I think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u73	I think it is necessary to maintain a buffer which may also be created in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u74	Let's wrap it up and leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u75	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last February, the press echoed charges of rape against a young refugee candidate at the Menin reception centre. Notwithstanding the treatment of these facts, which depend solely on the judiciary, it is the question of the right of residence of persons who apply for asylum in our country and who are convicted of serious offences before the decision on their status, which is now being taken. I would therefore like to know the government's position on this issue. What are the rules applied by the Office of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) in dealing with this type of situation? Do you possibly have data on the number of convictions for serious crimes committed by refugee candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u76	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the Act of 15 December 1980 provides for the possibility of taking measures with regard to asylum seekers when it is considered necessary to safeguard public order or national security. Each particular case shall be examined on the basis of the elements present in the administrative file of the person concerned. An assessment is systematically made on a case-by-case basis. I stress that the competent authorities remain particularly vigilant with regard to the serious incidents communicated to them and that action is taken when different elements, which the administration has at its disposal, make it possible to state that they are necessary. As Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, from the beginning of 2015, I took the initiative to amend Belgian legislation in order to ensure as much as possible, within the European regulatory framework, the possibility of taking a decision on refusal, exclusion from refugee status, subsidiary protection or expulsion. We are currently looking at how best to improve the effectiveness of certain points of the appeal procedure. The examination of the asylum application of an applicant who has participated in serious incidents is the responsibility of the CGRA, an independent body. It will process such requests through an expedited procedure. If the CGRA finds that there is no reason to grant international protection, it will make a refusal decision and the person concerned may be removed. If the CGRA finds that there are reasons for granting such protection, then refugee or subsidiary protection status will not be automatically granted. The CGRA will also examine whether an exclusion or refusal of protection status can be decided, on the one hand, on the basis of Article 1F of the Geneva Convention, which allows for the exclusion of an applicant for acts of terrorism or crimes against humanity, and on the other hand, on the basis of Article 52/4 of the Aliens Act, which requires the refusal of protection to an applicant who represents a danger to society or national security, provided that he or she has been definitively convicted of a particularly serious offence. For the exclusion of subsidiary protection status, the conditions are less stringent. A conviction for a particularly serious offence is not required and the commission of a serious crime or a danger to society is sufficient. In most cases, removal can be guaranteed because the CGRA can take a decision on the person concerned to refuse the asylum application. In some cases, however, refugee or subsidiary protection status could not be refused, since the asylum application could not be rejected solely because of misconduct. Making a refusal decision on this basis is only possible when the facts are of such a nature that they must be considered a serious crime or a danger to society, or be considered a particularly serious offence. But even in this case, removal to the country of origin cannot take place if this measure contravenes Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. CGRA does not have statistical data on the number of convictions for serious acts committed by asylum-seekers. In accordance with the Rules of the House, I cannot provide you with statistics in the context of an oral question. Please ask me a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your long and comprehensive reply. I will ask a written question to obtain the various statistics I had requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I was not hoping to see my question come to the agenda. It concerns the opening of a reception centre for refugees in Couvin and the events that took place in the first half of February. Since we are in the last half of April, there is a certain gap between the initial question and the one I am going to ask you today. As much water has flowed under the bridges, I will update my question and generalize some elements of it. First of all, I come to the privatisation of reception. As part of your policy, Secretary of State, as a first step, you have closed centres and beds. Then, with the influx of refugees, it was necessary to reopen them, in a certain haste and with sometimes insufficient preparation, which posed difficulties on the ground. In Couvin, the owner of the centre is Absiss, while the manager is Refuge-Assist. It must be recognized that chaotic debates took place in Couvin. On the one hand, while a gradual arrival of refugees was announced, they all arrived within a very short time, resulting in a lack of preparedness. On the other hand, beyond a few organizational elements, there was a question of management. In the first few weeks, the staff planned to accommodate 260 refugees were certainly not fully staffed. Nevertheless, I assume that the company that obtained the contract is paid per day and per refugee, even if, for example, the staff was only 30 per cent of the required staff. Privatisation is obviously a political choice of the government that we do not share because it poses many problems in terms of the experience of the people who organise this reception. Finally, the goal of those who work in this private sector is profitability and business. You have to say what it is. These organizations will make money on the reception of refugees. The question is about the specifications, compliance with them and their control. At first, there was no social worker to guide the files and a number of elements were lacking in terms of supervision and reception. What are the requirements of the specifications in terms of accompanying according to the number of refugees? Who controls the proper execution? If the framework is incomplete, will the company nevertheless receive the amounts in their entirety, even if it would make a substantial gain in terms of staff? What was the procurement procedure for the Couvin Centre? I guess there was an advertisement. By what means, within what time frame and for what duration? What was the number of candidates? Finally, I'd like to ask you about funding. I've read different numbers. That is why I would like you to provide me with some clarification. Indeed, I read that the private refugee centre would cost between 40 and 44 euros a day and that the amount for the ALI would amount to 38 euros a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u79	Mrs Lanjri, according to my information there are currently 34 554 places. I said there were less than 35 000 places. So it turns out that's true. You have other information. Normally, my information should be more correct than yours. I hope so, otherwise I have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u80	I also said 35 000 places.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u81	I said there were less than 35 000, and that's right, because there are 34 554.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u83	Mr President, the honourable Member will find the answer to his question below. The Visitor Centre in Couvin is run by Refugee-Assist. This reception structure is required to provide accommodation and accompaniment within the framework of the Home Law of 12 January 2007 and the instructions of Fedasil. This applies to all the structures of the host network, regardless of the host operator. There are no requirements in the specifications in terms of prior experience in the management of a reception structure. However, the specifications contain almost 150 points of requirement in the areas of compliance with reception legislation, day-to-day management of the reception centre, cooperation with the rest of the reception network, infrastructure and furniture, security, social support, medical and psychosocial support and staff. Deficiencies have indeed been noted, but Fedasil is closely following the improvements made, particularly in terms of additional staff engagement. The procedure applied was that of the emergency procurement. It was published in accordance with the rules in force on the website of the E-procurement platform. Fedasil had received responses to calls for tender from Senior Assist Corsendonck G4S, Bridgestock, Les Sept Lieues and Refugee-Assist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u84	How many offers? Six, seven. The list you just listed and the list of companies that offered? Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u85	Yes. Repeat: Fedasil had received responses to calls for tender from Senior Assist, Corsendonck G4S, Bridgestock, Les Sept Lieues and Refuge-Assist. That makes five offers. For host operators, the lump sum amounts per day range from EUR 40.50 to EUR 49.35, depending on the lot allocated. There are also other lump sums for the reception of unaccompanied minors, i.e. between €67.50 and €79.90, depending on the reception structure. Mr Delizée, we have had this discussion on several occasions, as well as with your colleague Mr Crusnière. The decision to organise a public procurement for the reception of asylum seekers by private companies was also valid for NGOs. The quality standard for private operators is strictly identical to that of Fedasil or the Red Cross. The prices of NGOs and traditional, common or CPAS partners are correct and accurate. It is not correct to say that we have lowered this price in order to be able to appeal to private operators. I am not saying that private operators are much more expensive, but that is still in the same proportion. It's about the same amount. If one wants to go to the private sector in the hope that it will be cheaper, then that is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u86	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. There are, therefore, requirements in a specification. The question is whether they are respected on the ground. There is therefore a need for some monitoring and follow-up. In Couvin's case, I have noted that you acknowledge that there are deficiencies that have been identified. It will take a follow-up in time, in Couvin and elsewhere, the problem is the same. As far as quality standards are concerned, you say that they are the same everywhere. Certainly the experience is different, the philosophy is different. Some come to experience the reception of specific audiences, the reception of refugees. Here, it is a last-minute recruitment, people who have no experience in this area. It is not, however, that reception cannot be of quality, but I think it takes time to learn a profession. Basically, therefore, there is a problem with the privatization of reception from a qualitative point of view. As far as the offers are concerned, you replied to me, and I noted that there are five offers. Furthermore, I have not understood why some centres are asking for EUR 40.50 and others EUR 49.35. Why such a difference? Another question: does the Red Cross operate at the same rates as these private operators? Within this range between 40.50 euros and 49.35? What, then, justifies this difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u87	I know that for your group, it is very interesting to talk about the privatization of the reception of refugees, but intellectual honesty is needed. We are talking about 2,000 places on a network of 34,500 places at the moment. So, a small lot is privatized for now; it's not the whole network. Secondly, with regard to the quality of the reception, I replied to an inquiry by Mr Crusnière on this subject two or three weeks ago. I answered very broadly. The answer lasted fifteen minutes, I think. I'm not going to repeat everything. We do audits, as we do in conventional centers. Thirdly, yes, we need to hire staff very quickly. But I can say that at Red Cross sites, Rode Kruis, Fedasil, etc., we had to hire staff in haste. The situation is the same in both the private and public sectors. I think there are private centres that work very well and others less well. There are also classical centers that work very well and others less well. We must therefore be nuanced in this respect. As far as price is concerned, this depends on the offers made in the context of the public procurement. It depends on the tenders submitted. And not just for Couvin's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u88	So it's not the state that sets the price on a day-to-day basis, is it the offers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u89	Exactly. But not for NGOs: it is a fixed price then, although there are also negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u90	And for NGOs, how much is it a day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u91	It depends on the seats. I think it's 38 or 40 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u92	38, that's the amount for ALIs, the local reception initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u93	So it's got to be 40 euros a place, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u94	So not by busy bed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u95	I think it's about the price per place offered. Your dois vérifier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u96	I think that on the privatization of the reception, we found in Couvin that it was a problem at first. It's an open door of course. We will see if the current proportions remain the same in the future. In any case, this remains a lucrative activity for operators. I think it is important to continue to monitor the requirements. There are 150 requirements. It is necessary to ensure that, in the private sector too, as with other operators, they are effectively respected in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u97	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about your other portfolio, namely Administrative Simplification. There was a biennial measurement report from the Planbureau that indicated that the total cost of administrative obligations for self-employed and companies increased between 2012 and 2014. The measurement shows that these costs would be 1.38 % of GDP or 5.52 billion euros. External costs would have increased further as a result of increasingly complex social and fiscal legislation. Small businesses in particular would feel this way. The government aims to reduce the administrative burden by 30%. If the administrative burden falls effectively by 30%, this means a reduction of almost EUR 1.5 billion for these companies. That would be a tax shift, a second major reduction in charges that could benefit the economy. I have some questions about this. Firstly, what steps have you taken during this legislature to reduce the administrative burden? Secondly, an important tool that could reduce administrative burdens is the only-once principle. This states that public administrations need those data which are known to the public authorities who first have to request from the services and not from the entrepreneur. In order for this principle to work properly, a large number of databases need to be linked. What is the way in which an action plan has now been drawn up to enable us to achieve a real digital transformation in our governments? How much time does it take to implement the various measures? With what estimated cost? Thirdly, are there any other proposals from your cabinet to simplify existing legislation on the fulfilment of tax and social administration? Which ones are they? What timing do you have for this? What measures will be taken to prevent governments from working side by side instead of side?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u98	Mr President, the complexity of the legislation is an important source of administrative burdens for citizens and businesses. The government will therefore work towards a systematic simplification of the rules. Both customer orientation, cost efficiency and innovation are served by smart and, above all, by fewer rules. The following concrete actions were launched by me in this context. Firstly, the only-once principle program. On 1 January 2016, the only-onece Act fully entered into force. My Administrative Simplification department coordinates and supports the implementation of the law. Secondly, further monitor and stimulate e-invoicing. Thirdly, follow e-government and encourage its use. Fourthly, the expansion of e-depot and e-griffy. In collaboration with the FPS Justice, the FPS Economy and Fedict, the DAV has continued to invest in the e-deposit and e-griffie application over the past year. Applications will be further developed so that, in addition to the creation of companies, all changes will also be communicated electronically in the future. As regards e-registration, since 1 January 2015, all notarial documents are registered and registered electronically with the mortgages via an application coordinated by the Administrative Simplification Service, in close cooperation with the FPS Finance and the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notary. In total, more than 800 000 notarial acts have already been processed in this way in 2015. So it's a great success. With regard to the use of Telemark, according to the latest available figures, 604 authorities already have the necessary access. Telemark is a kind of digital platform on which tenders can be published. All Brussels municipalities are already connected, as are 61 % of the Flemish municipalities and 80 % of the Walloon municipalities. In the meantime, the other services and institutions subject to the public procurement law have already been approached and a promotional campaign is under way. Finally, the government aims at an effective modernisation and computerisation of civil status. My services are also fully involved in this project, together with the services of the FPS Interior of Minister Jambon. What are we doing with regard to the only-once principle? There is an action plan that we have been working on for a year and a half. There's been a lot of sensitisation. By administration we have created a kind of green-orange red light calendar to determine who is where. We have made a great deal of progress. I myself started a study day for the top officials and those responsible for all the FPS to explain the only-once principle and the possibilities for cooperation. That happened a few weeks ago. However, we are not quite ready, and we must be honest about that. There's still a lot of work to be done. It wasn't really realistic either. This law was the last law passed before the 2014 elections. It stated that it should apply on 1 January 2016. No one believed that it would succeed by 1 January 2016. We are moving in the right direction step by step. A lot of work has already been done. We are not yet where we need to be, but we are following it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u99	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that you are taking and implementing a lot of measures in silence and that there are still a lot in the pipeline. That is a good thing. I would prefer a lot of results to be achieved rather than the fact that everything is said, with a fanfare in its head, and the result is less. I hope that we will see a lot of results in this legislative period on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u100	Mr Secretary of State, this question has been put a while ago and has not been answered by circumstances. She came there following a report in the media on 29 February about the expulsion of school children who have been here for years. I would like to give an example of the situation of a 19-year-old Kosovo girl who was deported at Christmas with her parents after seven years. The parents announced that they were willing to cooperate in their return, but asked that their daughter could still obtain her diploma, which would be the case in June. That was denied. A similar example is about an 18-year-old who had been in school in Tongeren for six years and has been in a closed center since the end of January to be returned. For the sake of clarity, I do not dispute the consequences of the asylum procedure: either the applicant is given the right to reside or the applicant does not have that right, and in the latter case he must leave the country. If the outcome of the procedure is that the applicant has to leave the country, then I do not question the return policy. However, I would ask that this be handled as correctly as possible and that human responses be given in pressing humanitarian situations. In the examples I described, those concerned indicated that they should leave our country. They show the willingness to cooperate in a return. However, they ask for permission to finish the current school year. I think it's weird that that's not allowed. That is why I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, whether you can allow children or young people to finish their school year, or perhaps even a little more, namely to end an initial training course. Suppose a person has been in training for four years, can he be linked to it for a final year if the person concerned wishes to participate in his return? Is there any possibility that the person concerned will still be in the last year of the training? What guidelines do you give to your administration when it comes to the expulsion of children or young people who have arrived here as unaccompanied minors and have sometimes been staying here for four or five years, but still, when they are of age, have to leave the country, for example because their asylum application is rejected? Do you give them the opportunity to complete their education if necessary? What instructions do you give regarding the expulsion of children who are part of a family if those children wish to complete their education, such as the example I gave you? At the moment, I know that in practice or according to the directive, in principle, there will no longer be any expulsion in an ongoing school year from the Easter holidays. Again referring to the case of the Kosovar girl, it must be possible to look at cases on a case-by-case basis? If there is a question of staying a little longer, for example from the Christmas holidays, especially if those concerned are prepared to cooperate in their return, you should be able to do so. What possibilities do you see for these young people to have a temporary arrangement or a suspension of their expulsion so that they can complete their school year or training?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u101	Mrs Lanjri, the following rules are applied. Unaccompanied minors are not forced to be removed. They will be assigned a guardian. Together with him or her, a solution is sought. That could be a voluntary return. During the legal or illegal stay in Belgium, unaccompanied minors are subject to compulsory education. The knowledge and skills acquired are always useful, even if they do not continue their studies in Belgium. In some cases, they can complete the school year, even if they are over 18 years old. Unaccompanied minors who have received a residence document, even a temporary A card, may continue their studies. It is up to the guardian to follow the procedures and explain them to the person concerned. Minor children who are part of a family follow the situation of the parents. Certain families who have received a first order to leave the territory may ask from the Easter holiday to extend the validity of the GVV until the end of the school year. If all minors had the right to finish school, this could mean that the majority of these families would have to be regularised. If every child had to complete his or her studies, the period of tolerance would be so long that it would be difficult to send them back afterwards. From the Easter holiday one can ask to extend. That debate is not new. We know the positions on that. I get questions about that sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u102	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u103	Normal from the Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u104	That's what I said. The scheme indeed applies from the Easter holiday, but what if families whose daughter is in the last year say they will cooperate in the return? Can she finish that senior year? I am not saying that all children should finish their studies, but if there is that question, if they cooperate and if there is no threat to public order, in that case I would understand some things. It's only in a month or even a few weeks longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u105	It remains a difficult question: do we allow an extension from March or December? Why not from the autumn break or just the senior year? If one is in the sixth year and can obtain a diploma, why not spend the whole of the last year? That's a street without end. There have been discussions on this with Mrs Crevits. I also wonder whether it expresses the position of the entire Flemish Government, but that is another matter. That's the arrangement. I am open to talking about this, but I know that it is a very difficult issue and that there will always be cases that will not get a favourable response and that will get into the media. That is the fate of a Secretary of State who has the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u106	It is important that the demand for more time for parents with school-based youth be reviewed, provided, of course, that they participate in their return. The policy must not be rigid, in which the expulsion is suspended from the Easter holiday and not a day earlier. I have no problem with this case being considered on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u107	How credible is it to cooperate on the return if, for example, someone has not obeyed ten orders? You're quoting two cases. Those files have been reviewed by my administration as they look at all the files, and also by my cabinet when it comes to particularly sensitive dossiers. We must also look at the credibility of those involved when it comes to return. It's a long stay. You say they've been here seven years. How many months I don't agree about years of legal status and how many months or years in illegal residence, in proceedings that never end? If these people ask for so many months and then they will cooperate on the return, one must understand that some people in my administration do not believe that. That's a difficult trade-off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u108	You have heard me say clearly on a case-by-case basis. It must be about people who are not a threat to public order, but who have also cooperated. If people have known for ten years that they have to leave, it is indeed not credible if they only come up with the argument about completing studies. Exceptions should be possible and should be considered by your administration on a case-by-case basis. This sends out the message that if we stick to agreements and cooperate on the return and have not done everything we can in the past, we want to look at things. It's an exception. It's still a favor. I am not asking for legislation to be passed in a law, but I am asking for the young people concerned to be able to arm themselves with a diploma so that they can at least have it when they return to their country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u109	I've already done that. I have already extended visas until the end of the school year, in certain cases before the Easter holiday. I do that sometimes, but in most of those cases, so many orders have been given. You must understand that my administration sometimes says that it would be so grotesque and unfair to all those hundreds of others over the last ten or twenty years who have not been in the press, but who have returned. So there is a certain degree of credibility. Have I given a visa until the end of the school year, even if it was in October? Yeah, I've done that in certain cases. I look at that on a case-by-case basis. That is a difficult issue. I'm a pedagogue; I'm very sensitive to that. Sometimes they put something in the press and that's one side of the story. That's not always easy to counter, because one has to be careful with private data. Commenting on individual cases is a street without end. Every day dozens of letters come in to the cabinet with all kinds of questions and there are often difficult, complex cases in between.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 9855 question was converted into a written question. The interplay No. Question No 126 by Mr Kir was postponed and Question No 126 by Mr Kir was postponed. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 9868 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u111	Mr President, the interplay has already been postponed for the third time. Is she still up to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u112	That question must then be addressed to the Conference of Presidents. In the case of an interview, it is not the same as in the case of an oral question that it lapses after one or two postponements. Non-presence does not mean that the interpelation lapses. If it is no longer up-to-date enough, it is in principle up to the author to decide for himself. Otherwise, this will be done by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u113	Mr President, how long can the Secretary of State remain?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u114	This will be the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u115	Mr President, if Mrs Pas and I receive the answer to our questions Nos 9893 and 10182, we want to translate them into written questions. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u116	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u117	Secretary of State, the government has been working for several weeks on a project that would allow it to repatriate the illegal intercepts to Morocco. The Prime Minister's trip to Morocco was to be an opportunity to sign an agreement on this matter. Another objective of the trip was to increase intelligence collaboration between the two States, particularly with a view to combating terrorism. Mr Secretary of State, what about this case? Have you reached an agreement with Morocco for the repatriation of the illegals? Have the discussions in Morocco been fruitful in order to achieve more cooperation between the two countries in the area of intelligence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u118	Mr President, thank you, Mrs Jadin, for this issue of government priority. For several years now, the Office has been cooperating constructively with the Moroccan authorities. Morocco is one of the countries to which repatriations are most numerous. Last year, 336 Moroccan nationals were repatriated to their countries of origin. Given the problem, however, I would like to obtain advances more quickly. Morocco has an electronic fingerprint system. A faster response should therefore be possible for those registered in the system, i.e. about two thirds. I can tell you some good news: Mr Hassad, Minister of the Interior of the Moroccan government, is coming to Belgium this Friday to sign the MoU (memorandum of understanding). I therefore hope that after 16 years of negotiations we can reach a conclusion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u119	My question, therefore, falls to the fore. Het juist antwoord op het juist moment. Thank you, Secretary of State. I think it will be important, after the signing of the agreement, to ensure that the arrangements concluded are transposed fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u120	Mr President, with regard to the questions put by Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Pas, these are mainly figures. Mrs Lanjri, the figures I have go until 2014. Normally they came in for 2015 in March, but in my answer they have not yet been added. I will ask if we already have the figures for 2015, so I can give them to you. You need the figures for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u121	I asked that question orally first. You told me to put them in writing. I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u122	I can give you the figures until 2014 and see if we have the figures for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u123	You can give the figures until 2014, and send them for 2015. Then we'll turn our questions around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic387x.u124	So, Mrs Lanjri, you decide to change your question. The Secretary of State will provide a preliminary reply and the information for 2015 will follow as soon as it is available. That concludes the agenda and closes the sitting.
