ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u1	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u2	Madam President, Minister, since 2010, in Belgium, a judge may order a driver to equip his car with an "alcolock" system, i.e. an anti-start ethylotest, based on an alcohol level of 0.8 g/l. However, at present, only 23 alcolocks are active in Belgium, while, by comparison, 4,000 aircraft have been placed in the same period of time in our Dutch neighbours. It would appear that judges are reluctant to use this method and that the high cost of the tool would also hinder its generalization in our country. However, a recent study has shown that electronic sobriety reduces road mortality by 15%. Minister, according to the information that I have learned, your office would be preparing a bill that now obliges judges to impose the installation of an alcohol block on recidivist drunk drivers and offenders with high blood alcohol levels, i.e. 1.5 g/l. The IBSR welcomed this announcement, considering that this tool should be sustained and strengthened. For my part, I also believe that the necessary measures must be taken to increase the safety of road users. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm the information in the press about this bill? Can you tell us more about the main axes of this one? What is the planned agenda for the implementation of these measures? What is the status of consultation with the IBSR, the police and the justice services on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u3	Chers collégues, I'll answer the two questions. Two types of alcolocks must be distinguished. Preventive alcolocks and repressive alcolocks imposed as a sanction for a driving traffic offence. Alcolock is an effective way to remove people who drink too much from the highway. In combination with a mentoring program, it also makes people aware of the danger of drinking while driving. People are provided with assistance and support in this regard. To date, the BIVV has accompanied a total of 42 convicts with an alcohol lock. For 19 people the guidance is complete and there are 23 people in counseling. For 2 persons who have registered, the guidance has never started. Police tests of alcohol levels show that people continue to drive while drinking alcohol. This bad habit is a scourge on our roads. Indeed, we know that driving alcohol is one of the three leading causes of road mortality and that it is responsible for 25% of deaths in traffic. We must therefore have the courage to seriously tackle this problem and to protect people who have once or several times taken the wheel by having too much alcohol in their blood, forcing them to ride with an alcolock. If they refuse the alcolock, the only possible alternative must be at least as long a period of revocation of the driving licence. With an alcolock, the offender can continue to ride. This means that the consequences for his working and social life remain very limited. On the other hand, if the offender is deprived of the right to drive for at least one year, he or she is forced to use public transport or bicycles, which is not obvious for those with a demanding job and a busy family life. It is true that the alcolock has a high price, but I think many people will give it the preference if, in return, they can keep their jobs and continue to run their household. This bill still needs to be discussed with all stakeholders: the IBSR, the judiciary, the police and the relevant ministers. I will inform you of the elements of the project when it is more advanced. As for the preventive alcohol lock, the school buses followed. My administration is currently examining all the practical and legal aspects of this dossier. Consultations with the various bodies and federations concerned are still to be held. It seems complicated to me to require other governments at my level to buy new vehicles with an alcohol lock. However, I am firmly in favour of such initiatives. In fact, it seems essential to me that the government should contribute to ensuring a positive image of a preventive alcohol lock. The cost of an alcohol lock depends to a large extent on the cost of the appliance and its installation in the vehicle. As this corresponds to an economic reality, it is difficult for the government to intervene here. The cost of the framework programme can also be addressed, but since good guidance contributes to the continuing nature of the change in behaviour that the alcohol lock causes, it must provide sufficient quality for me. It is currently examining how to standardise the technical requirements of the appliance at European level as far as possible, so that manufacturers no longer have to bear the costs of the type approval in each country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u4	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his response. Indeed, you can only be encouraged to continue developing this tool, which – as you have said – allows us to maintain a balance between safety, which is dear to us, on the one hand, and the maintenance of professional or family life, on the other. I note that you are still working on this project. I will, of course, come back to you when it is further developed to obtain more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u5	Madam President, Minister, from 1 October the new legal framework on electric bicycles, which we have already had the opportunity to discuss here in the past, will come into force. These are therefore the new rules for the licensing, registration or insurance of speed pedalecs, whose pedalling assistance continues to operate beyond 25 km/h. In the wake of this reform, you recently announced that you want to make the purchase of an electric bike more tax-friendly. Today, between 20% and 30% of bicycles sold have electric support and it is positive to encourage their use further, as they offer solutions both to bottling problems and to environmental challenges. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What tax measures are you planning to take to make electric bicycles more attractive? What is the expected agenda for the implementation of this reform? What is the current state of consultation on this matter with your colleague in charge of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u6	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the idea you announced of providing tax relief for speed pedals and electric bicycles. It is important to make the distinction between the classic electric bike with pedal support up to 25 km per hour and the speed pedelec, a bike with pedal support up to 45 km per hour. The rules which entered into force under the Royal Decree of 1 October are quite different for the speed pedal than for the classic electric bicycle, which remains regarded as a bicycle. Nevertheless, on 20 September, you yourself stated that electric bike is an ideal alternative to the car, for short and medium distances. You announced that you would want to make the purchase of such bicycles, both the electric bicycle and the speed pedals, tax deductible in the future and you would contact your colleagues from Finance and Social Affairs. At present, both classic bicycles and electric cars are 120 % deductible for employers. The tax relief for individuals, which is linked to the purchase of electric vehicles, is a regional competence. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. In what way do you propose to make the electric bicycles and the speed pedals tax deductible? Is it a private tax deduction? Is it about the deduction for employers or both? What kind of laws did you have in mind? How does it work with your colleagues to achieve these objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u7	I wrote to my colleagues Johan Van Overtveldt and Mrs De Block in September asking them to set up a joint working group that will bring together experts from different administrations to implement various tax and ONSS measures aimed at achieving our Belgian CO2 emission targets and making speed pedalec more attractive. Indeed, since the entry into force on 1 October of a regulatory framework which determines different types of electric bicycles, it seems to me appropriate to adapt the legislation which refers to bicycles as a mode of travel. Therefore, I propose to amend the Code and to provide the deductible mileage fee for all types of bicycles, including the speed pedelecs. The tax measures I propose to promote speed pedelec are aimed at both individuals and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u8	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u9	Minister, I can only welcome your answer. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u10	Madam President, the royal decision on speed pedelecs entered into force on 1 October 2016. Since speed pedals according to the KB are to be considered mopeds, their position on the road is similar to that of the Class B mopeds on the road. That's the general rule. Thanks to the separate logo, which has been developed for it, namely a moped with the letter P, they can still be allowed on certain roads where mopeds are banned today, but where it is desirable that speed pedelecs are allowed anyway. These can include reserved roads, roads along canals and waterways, cycle paths, agricultural roads, roads marked with an F99 sign. These roads are ideal for the speed pedelecs and very important to offer them a future and to give them an important role in traffic. In this way the speed pedelecs play a more important role as an alternative to the Audi A6. All these signs and roads therefore require an adjustment, namely an explicit admission by indicating the new speed pedal logo. My concern is that many road managers do not regard that as a priority and too high a cost for the single speed pedelecs that are driving around today. The subject has already been discussed in the Flemish Parliament. Minister Weyts, responsible for Mobility at Flemish level, stated in committee that the municipalities are not yet fully aware of the new regulations. My fear is that it will take quite a long time before speed pedelecs will be admitted to the most suitable roads, including roads along waterways, on F99 roads, hunting paths. In the development of the KB, no consideration was given to automatically allowing the speed pedals where bicycles are allowed. This can be solved by a simple rule in the KB. This would avoid all the red tape in the adjustment of road signs. Are road managers sufficiently aware of the new rules? Why is that? Why is that? Do you recognise that for the admission of speed pedelecs on functional bicycle connections a great effort must be made by the road managers, who have to adapt all traffic signs F99? Why is that? Why is that? How do you view the idea of aligning the position of the speed pedals on the road with that of the bikes? This is a simple solution, which means that road managers do not have to change all road signs. Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u11	I would like to endorse Mr Van den Bergh's questions. At the local level we look at the lyrics. It is anything but obvious to give the speed pedelec a place. In my written submission, I referred to Articles 15, 16 and 17. Additional specifications are also provided in Article 24, with underboards M11 to M20. For a rural municipality it is a serious impact to change the blue signs F99A, F99C, F101A and F101C. We try to give our roads a certain comfort. It is our vision to promote slow roads. Now we need to change our mobility policy. To what extent has a delegation of local road managers, the VVSG and others, been consulted in the legislative process? Wasn't it easier to equate the speed pedelec with the bike and grant the road manager exceptions? What communication do you plan to clarify the regulations to the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u12	As indicated in my answer to question No. 13 652 of 16 September 2016 my administration prepared a brochure. It was not only sent to the bicycle dealers, but also distributed by the BIVV through its network. In addition, it is possible to consult the brochure, together with a number of facts, on the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport. As usual following a change to the traffic regulations, my administration informed all stakeholders, namely police, Justice, the Association of Cities and Municipalities and others, of the new regulations, which entered into force on 1 October 2016. In addition, the electric bicycles have not been out of the press in recent months. Only the road managers who have spent the last two months in a cave may not be aware yet. As I also indicated in the reply to the previous question of 16 September 2016, the regulatory framework has been established in broad consultation. From the point of view of road safety, it is the best option to give road managers the possibility of allowing speed pedelecs drivers to hunt or reserved roads according to local conditions. After all, not all roads are suitable for speed pedelecs. Now it is up to the road managers to determine where and when they will make use of these opportunities. The speed pedelec is a moped according to the European regulation 168/2013. It is about vehicles that, like mopeds class B, can reach a speed of 45 km per hour. In addition, the acceleration speed of a speed pedelec is not comparable to the acceleration speed of a regular cyclist. In addition, there is also the higher weight, combined with the higher speed. A complete alignment with the bicycle cannot be defended from the point of view of road safety. Because the speed pedelec cannot be fully aligned with the classic moped class B, a kind of hybrid status was developed. For example, the bicycle helmet can be worn and, unlike the mopeds class B, users can be allowed to use reserved roads and opposite directions in one-way streets. The bike paths are subject to the system proposed by you. Speed pedelecs are allowed there, except if the road manager prohibits them by signaling. The same applies to mopeds class B. Fortunately, the traffic regulations are not chiseled in stone. As a function of future societal developments, adjustments to further stimulate these vehicles will continue to be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u13	Thank you for your answer, Minister. This time I am somewhat less pleased than in the answer to my previous question. I believe that the position on the place on the road of speed pedelecs starts from a defensive vision. It could pose a risk of mixing such vehicles with the classic bicycles. However, if you look along cycling routes, you will also see a range of different bikes at different speeds, large and small, wide and long. The differences are already very large today. The speeds are sometimes high. I don't think the speed pedelecs are an exception to that, even in terms of weight. There are baking bikes that are much heavier and there are classic electric bikes that go up to 25 kilometers per hour, which are equally heavy. So I think the weight here doesn't play such a big role. According to the European Directive speed pedals are considered mopeds. It is good that this directive has been translated into a hybrid system, so that they are not fully aligned with mopeds. I continue to regret the fact that people have left from a defensive vision, rather than an offensive, forward-looking vision, in which speed pedelecs are really seen as an alternative to car traffic and where all cycling routes are automatically opened up to speed pedelecs. Of course, there are situations where this is less desirable, and there it would be indicated that speed pedelecs are not allowed. I would like to mention one more specific aspect in relation to the current legislation. On the F99 signs you can see six different symbols today. If we add another symbol, no one will see what's on it. I do not think that this is the most recognizable way of indicating admission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u14	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In substance, I maintain that the reverse logic might have been more desirable, especially for the local road managers. I do not think this has anything to do with political conviction. I'm just gonna go with my knowledge of the terrain. We are both competent for mobility and should probably now provide additional budgets to change all signs. I found the comment about the cave very funny. However, I would like to point out that Han's caves are closer to your home than ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u15	Madam President, Minister, this is a very specific question about the ITRIS controls. We have asked several questions about this in this committee. Its rollout was announced in May 2015. At that time they talked about modern equipment, improved service and customer service and more accurate use for train drivers. It should lead to fewer discussions about travel cards. However, we were contacted a number of times by people on the ground, because there are still technical problems with the use of these devices. The batteries would not last enough, payments with bank cards are sometimes not registered, scanning is difficult, real-time information is sometimes not available, etc. Are you aware of these problems? Do you have an idea of the actions that SNCB will take to resolve these problems as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u16	Madam President, Minister, at least I agree with the questions put by Mr Geerts. Mr Geerts has already outlined the problem and I will look into my questions. Mr Minister, are you aware of the complaints about the ITRIS devices, as mentioned in a press article at the end of September? What kind of problems are we talking about? How many complaints were made by the train escorts? What measures does SNCB take to solve the problems? How is the roll-out for the train escorts on international trains? How many train drivers already have an ITRIS device? What is the further planning of the roll-out? Has the function of real-time information on defective ticketing machines already been established? If so, how does this work? How many devices have this function? If not, when will this be available? So much for my supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the ITRIS equipment did indeed raise a number of weaknesses. They concerned both the hardware and the software. SNCB guarantees that its objective was always to offer a stable, reliable and performant device to train supervisors. In the short term, the aim is to improve the performance of the device. For this purpose, SNCB is in permanent contact with Ypto, its internal supplier, but also with AEG, Panasonic and GMX, its external suppliers. In this way, for example, it was already possible to get a better picture of a number of problems relating to SAM cards, payment with bank cards via satellite devices, and to solve them. SNCB informs me that many actions have been taken which have led to continuous improvements. The following initiatives have recently been taken. First, a registered letter was sent to the suppliers. Secondly, 120 tablets and 180 satellite devices were ordered extra. Thirdly, additional software versions were developed and installed to better solve some problems with the tablets. ITRIS offers a number of functions, but to further improve and complement them, more developments are needed. SNCB also informs me that it will pay particular attention to this project and follow it closely. SNCB had to set priorities and the distribution of ITRIS equipment to train escorts of international trains was postponed. Tests are currently being carried out, particularly on the Dutch and French networks. The first feedback is positive. If the acceptance tests continue to satisfy, the employees concerned will receive an ITRIS device and will be trained to work with it in December. The function to automatically send data to the ITRIS devices was taken into production on 10 August. However, updating the list of faulty vending machines and thus deactivating the on-board fare in real time still requires manual synchronization by the train guides. IT developments are currently underway to ensure that the on-board fare is automatically activated in real time. This feature will be included in the next software version of ITRIS that would be installed in the course of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that the efforts made by SNCB in the field will improve passengers and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that it is particularly important that information on the status of ticket machines should be provided in real time by the train escorts or in the aircraft, so that we are already off the flight rate for those who were not able to buy a ticket because of a faulty machine. That would be quite a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u20	Mr President, my question follows on from an earlier question that I asked your predecessor on the same issue. Your predecessor replied very adequately to that at the time, but today I come to the legal and political topicality. We have recently heard that the Council for Authorisations has suspended an application by Infrabel and Tuc Rail for the second rail access to the port of Antwerp. For the sake of clarity, in Antwerp no one disputes the usefulness of a second track opening. Antwerp is and remains the most important railway port in all of Europe, if not in the whole world. I say that not with a thick neck, but as a mere observation. Furthermore, we all know that rail is and remains a very environmentally friendly carrier. We therefore need as much rail infrastructure as possible in order to be able to transport goods to and from our important ports. There is, of course, a but, Minister. You must, of course, be able to reconcile the inhabitants of the neighbourhood who are facing a new railway project with the size of such a project. For the Merksem district and the municipality of Schoten, your predecessor has brought joyful news. She said that the second rail tunnel would be tunneled in. It would be a drilled tunnel. Neighborhood residents wouldn't be bothered by that. However, in Ekeren and more specifically in the sub-area of Old Countries, there is of course a legitimate concern. Indeed, the building application refers to an uneven crossroads. There is an existing railway bundle which will have to be crossed unevenly by the new railway bundle to be built. This means that a talud of 1.8 km long, almost 2 km long and 13 m high will have to be built, which is not a pleasant prospect for the locals. They have therefore been sent to the Council for Authorisations. They were right there. The Council has now asked for the procedure to be restarted in order to introduce a number of improvements, a number of new proposals in the current application for authorisation. Minister, this is an opportunity for you because you can now enter into consultation with the local residents, with the complainants who have brought them to that council and to work out a new project that will benefit everyone, which everyone can live with. Are you willing to do that? Are you prepared to instruct the authorities of which you are the guardian minister to consult with the neighborhood, with the residents of the neighbourhood, with the complainants and to find alternatives that can unite everyone around this necessary and useful project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u21	Minister, Mr Penris has outlined the problem. It is true that one of the concerns of the neighbors related to a number of 13 meters high, over a distance of 1 800 meters. The urban permit itself was obtained in 2012, but it was appealed to the Council for Authorisations. The Board suspended the 2012 urban permit in September 2016 and asked Infrabel to clarify a number of issues further. I have the following questions. What is the current state of affairs in the file? Will Infrabel respond to the comments of the Council for Authorisation Disputes and therefore submit an amended proposal? What is the planning that is being put forward in this dossier? Are financial resources included in a multi-annual investment plan for this purpose? Is that one of the priority projects for Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u22	First of all, I would like to clarify that the request for construction relating to the file on the ground crossing of Old Countries and not on the file on the second rail access towards Lier. Infrabel has, and will continue to have, numerous consultations with those concerned in the past. The offered underground alternatives have been studied several times in the past. However, these underground alternatives are too detrimental to the operation of rail traffic. For the population there is also a negative impact on local mobility. The tunnel works would also require a very long implementation period. The city of Antwerp, in turn, reached similar conclusions. The results of all these studies were also made known. The Council for Authorisations has suspended the building application on the basis of observations of a legal and technical nature. Firstly, there is a need for a further review of destination and urban planning rules. Secondly, the conditions of the authorisation must be clarified and clarified. Thirdly, a further review is required with regard to the law on unsailable watercourses. Infrabel will take into account what the Council points out. Infrabel will provide its response by 30 December 2016 at the latest. At present, the works concerned are being examined in the Investment Committee, but no decision has yet been taken on their inclusion in the future multiannual plan for investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I am not entirely satisfied. I'm glad you're reconsidering the state of play. You spoke about consulting with the locals involved. There have indeed been contacts between the licensing authorities and local residents, but that was a one-way street. The plans were put forward there without which I have the impression that people could have an active input into the decision-making process. You say that the underground alternatives were investigated but couldn't be realized. I'd like to dispute that. I believe that the people who are working on this dossier have provided enough alternatives and arguments to Infrabel and TUC Rail to say that tunneling at Ekeren is feasible. I understand now, and this is important, that the new licence application will be there by 30 December 2016. I hope that, in the meantime, fruitful consultations will have taken place with the local people who are very interested in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My reply contains a number of elements. I'll try not to repeat myself. First of all, the people involved tell me that the conversation was a deaf man's conversation. There has been talk with Infrabel, but there has been no feedback on concrete proposals. Secondly, you mention legal-technical elements, including urban planning regulations. Urban planning regulations are of course more than legal-technical. They are content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u25	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Geerts and myself are asking for our combined questions. 14237, 14360 and 14495 to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u26	The next item is Question No Mr David Geerts, on the recommendations from diesel gate which have an impact on mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u27	Madam President, there will be a more recent question on the mobility budget. That is why I would like to ask my No. 14257 to be incorporated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u28	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u29	Madam President, Minister, we can read in Infrabel's 2014 annual report that the Traffic Management System will be put into operation in 2016. The system is a real-time computer support, which keeps track of the current situation of rail traffic and can make an accurate assessment of the journey time. The system will improve rail safety as well as promote punctuality and make communication to the traveller more accurate. I've heard that Infrabel would be its implementation date 4 September 2016. For this purpose, all staff of the services concerned each took a three-day course in spring 2016. I have also learned that the parallel running system, which should allow them to keep up and practice between their training and the deployment of the TMS, does not always work because of the large number of bugs. As a result, some agents have been unable to practice days and sometimes weeks. Mr Minister, first of all, was 4 September 2016 indeed the intended starting date for the introduction of the TMS? Secondly, for what reason is the TMS still not implemented? Thirdly, what realistic date is now set by Infrabel? Fourthly, how many people have already taken a course? How many of them should take a new course because the parallel run system would not always work adequately? Finally, when will Belgium's largest station, particularly Brussels-South, switch from all-Relais technology to EBP technology, so that the TMS could work optimally?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u30	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, the date of 4 September 2016 was indeed the envisaged starting date for the TMS. The TMS has not yet been implemented for technical reasons. The new date set is 12 November 2016. Everyone's been in training. Exercises are also prepared and guidance is provided so that everyone can practice at their reserve stations. The inner grid of the Brussels-South station area will be taken over into EBP technology by mid-2017. The outer grid of the Brussels-South exchange zone will be taken over by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. I am glad that the TMS system will soon be in place. It will improve passengers and train drivers and supervisors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u32	Mr Minister, on 17 July I asked a question about the prohibition of catching-up for lorries. Then I wondered if these were legally possible. The future findings of infringements of the prohibition of catch-up in the event of rain weather using unmanned camera dynamometers seemed useful to you at that time. But you have said to me, and I quote you: 'It is not natural to do so.' Checking a catch-up ban on 2x2 roads seemed to you, by means of unmanned cameras, and I quote you again, possibly......................................................................................................................................................................................... A month later, on 17 August, in the middle of the holiday period, I can see that you are unpacking in the press with the idea of using unmanned cameras from 2017 to detect infringements such as catching up with rainy weather. Now, of course, that is very good news, because the recent survey by the BIVV and the Transport Federation showed that catch-up bans, especially in the event of rain, are not respected by trucks. In addition, even our own fellow Members are very critical of catching up. When drivers were asked what they were annoyed about in traffic, this is also in the top 3. Hence my next questions, Minister. Will your adaptation of the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 concern both the prohibition of catching up in the event of rain and the prohibition of catching up on 2x2 roads? What specific adjustments will you make in the Royal Decree to make it legally possible to detect rain weather violations by means of the unmanned camera dynamometers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u33	Mr President, I would like to add my voice to the question put by Mr Dumery, who has focused on the enforcement of the catch-up bans for lorries; a catch-up ban in the event of rain and a general catch-up ban on 2x2 motorways. I have already raised the issue several times in this committee, for several years. Our regulations are very different in this respect from those applied in neighbouring countries. There a catch-up ban on 2x2 motorways is always indicated with a prohibition board, while we have a general catch-up ban here, which means that we have to use an admission sign to allow it at certain hours. I don't think this is a good idea as a small transit country. Moreover, the catch-up bans in our country are very poorly respected and it is also difficult to enforce that compliance with our limited enforcement capacity. All this has to make us look at the regulations. I've put that in several times. This would be considered in the context of the simplification of the Road Code. That is why, in addition to Mrs Dumery's questions, I would like to know what the state of play is regarding the revision of the Road Code and whether the existing catch-up bans for lorries in our country will also be looked at, examined and, if necessary, adapted in accordance with neighbouring countries. The dynamic traffic signs provided by the Regions above the motorways are a regional authority. Isn't cooperation possible to indicate more clearly when it rains and when there is a catch-up ban?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u34	The aim is to lift the catch-up ban for two-way lorries and thus to align them with what is common in Europe, namely to allow and specifically prohibit them rather than the reverse. This means that there will be a return to the imposition of catch-up bans by road managers on the routes where this is deemed appropriate. A draft amendment to the traffic rules is in preparation for this purpose. It also provides for the adjustment of the catch-up ban in case of precipitation. An extension of a catch-up ban to lorries with a maximum authorised mass of between 3.5 and 7.5 tonnes is not foreseen. Perhaps it will be limited to vehicles intended for the transport of goods. Because of their structure and structure, buses, cars and trucks between 3.5 and 7.5 tonnes cause much less splashing water than the lorries with a maximum authorised mass of more than 7.5 tonnes. I am also open to the use of dynamic road signs that indicate a catch-up ban for truck drivers. It is, of course, up to the road manager to decide where to place a dynamic road sign. The above-mentioned draft will be linked to a communication plan adapted to the interests of stakeholders, which will aim to ensure that all stakeholders have the necessary information in time. It is sufficient in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 to add the catch-up ban in case of precipitation to the list of infringements the detection of which by means of unmanned camera dynamometers provides special evidence value. A draft is also in preparation for this purpose. In addition, taking into account the rapid technological developments, more and more infringements by means of unmanned camera performance indicators will be reliably detected in the future. I have therefore asked my administration to examine the possibilities of an amendment to the traffic law in the sense that the special evidence value would apply to the determinations by unmanned camera dynamometers of all violations of the traffic law and its implementing act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u35	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I understand that you are preparing for changes to the Royal Decree to introduce dynamic signs. A lot of preparations are being made. I don't want to rush you, Minister. We do not immediately feel the hot breath of the elections on our necks. We are already in the second half of this legislature and I hope that these texts will soon be dealt with in this committee. It's also about a KB so if you can do it without us so much better. You will ask the stakeholders. I also think that you should not forget to involve road managers. In this way, the fragmentation of the sixth state reform will not lead to any excesses of powers. I wish you every success in producing texts or changes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u36	Minister, the powers in this matter are clear. I thank you for your answers and hope that they can now be translated into reality. We have already received the announcement that the catch-up ban will be reversed from your predecessors. It's all about realizing it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u37	Madam President, Minister, already a year ago, the SNCB announced the upcoming closure of 33 station counters, including 14 gallons. Currently, five are still in operation. The closure of these 14 windows and the reduction of time ranges in others were two of the conditions for maintaining stopping points in some rural areas. The press has recently analysed the impact of these window closures on other stations. Indeed, some lines find themselves without any further station counters on their route. With the upcoming closure of Mariembourg, this is the case with the 132 line linking Charleroi-Sud to Couvin. The nearest train station counter is in Charleroi-Sud for commuters to Couvin. A commuter from Gouvy will have to drive 58 km to Spa where the nearest railway station counter is located. The ASBL Shuttles.be points out that other alternatives exist to make the working time of a counterman of a remote station profitable, such as the installation of Kiala points or Post Points in the least frequented stations. Minister, what are the new measures you plan to implement in the short and medium term to support commuters without a station counter on their route? How do you intend to facilitate their journeys? Do you think that such a situation is sustainable in the long term? Are you planning to close any other station counters in the near future? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u38	Madam President, Mr Devin, I would like to take advantage of your question to recall a few points. When it comes to the closure of stations, as you said, it is the closing of windows. The train service remains unchanged for these stations. In addition, in recent years, SNCB has reopened the breakpoints of Athus, Halanzy, Messancy, Aubange, Evergem, Hergenrath, Distel, Beervelde, Mortsel, Liersteenweg, Noorderkempen, Simonis, Brussels-West, Hamont, Beringen, Zandhoven, Mouterij, Tour&Taxis. It is often said that there are many closures. However, 16 breakpoints were reopened. To answer your question, SNCB states that it does not intend to terminate the service of certain lines, stations or stop points. Moreover, it does not foresee any full and definitive closure of windows until 2020, as I indicated in my policy statement a few months ago. As my predecessor pointed out to you, of the 33 stations for which the closing of windows was decided in mid-2015, he subsides four of them where closure is not yet achieved, namely Mariembourg, Bertrix, Gouvy and Poperinge. SNCB adds that it notes that, across the country, its customers are increasingly using modern sales channels to purchase their ticket. This is the website, application and automatons in the stations. These channels are available 24 hours a day. In total, sales via automatons account for more than 45% of sales today, compared to just 10% three years earlier. SNCB has decided to take account of this evolution in purchasing behaviour in order to define a distribution strategy consisting of better use of human resources, i.e. where they are more useful to customers. A satisfaction survey on behalf of SNCB reveals that the client is satisfied with this approach. Almost 84% of these customers have a positive perception of the purchase of a ticket and attribute an average score of 7.8/10. In addition, there was a slight increase compared to last year. As I have already indicated, the application of this distribution strategy has no impact on the supply of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u39	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for these clarifications. He is right to recall that the stations can be reopened. Minister, I am thinking more about the numbers and how customers and users take and buy their tickets. It is true that, in the future, more and more customers will use modern technology. However, there are still people who are no longer left to choose. When you do your survey, you will see that in some stations where there is no ticket counter and where the only way to get a ticket is the automatic, the controller will be chosen 100%! There's no need to hire people, it's clear! It is not the SNCB that evolves according to the figures, but rather the figures that evolve with the SNCB's policy of replacing people at railway station counters with automatons. That too, we must be able to accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u40	Knowing that you have the last word, I would like to add something. It should be noted that a few months ago, SNCB launched a call to the public to find out who wanted to be part of a working group to improve services, information and products. Four thousand people responded positively. Every month, since July, a working group has been meeting according to the topics discussed. We give the floor to commuters and citizens. I had the opportunity, fifteen days ago, to participate, to visit the place where they were meeting and to hear what was proposed. There were commuters of all ages, of all backgrounds, of all transport conditions. Continuous listening to SNCB's commercial service will improve distribution channels. If there are specific requests from commuters and users, e.g. requests for deaf people, persons with disabilities who are unable to read, SNCB is responsible for finding solutions for them, by window, by electronic means, by automatons, etc. It is a new strategy, oriented to commuters, which is gradually being implemented. It is in this sense that we want to go, taking into account such remarks as yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u41	Mr Devin, you have the floor, but you can reply anyway, since you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u42	Minister, we have the last word, so you will have to accept my comment. Maybe you won't have anything to say next. I am pleased that such an initiative is being taken, and I am already looking forward to the projects that will be implemented on the basis of the opinions of the commuters. I won't be any longer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u43	Recently, the General Public Service Centre (CGSP) reported a shortage of station staff (sorting agents, sub-chiefs and station chiefs, members of Sécurail). Indeed, some stations are completely without SNCB agents, while they guarantee assistance and safety for rail users. For example, the Schaerbeek station no longer has any agents on the outskirts of the wharf since 25 July. Prior to that date, a yard agent and a station deputy chief provided the benefits. This policy is becoming more widespread, as we learn that there will be an abolition of all security posts at Dinant station. To cope with this lack of personnel and to ensure safety, SNCB will install nearly 1,000 additional cameras on the network. According to the CGSP, this removal of staff could have unfortunate consequences for travellers: malicious acts, minor crimes such as tags. This will inevitably lead to a sense of insecurity in Belgian railway stations. Minister, do you confirm the disappearance of the security posts at the Schaerbeek and Dinant stations? Will the phenomenon increase in the coming months and extend to other stations? If so, which ones? And by what date? What are the new measures, apart from the installation of surveillance cameras, that you intend to implement in the short and medium term in order to improve safety on Belgian docks? What do you intend to do to counter the insecurity of some commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u44	Mr Devin, at the Schaerbeek train station, the station's deputy chief provides services in three successive poles. With a view to the optimal allocation of resources, the station's deputy head ensures that other tasks such as accompanying the trains to the garage beams are carried out. However, it is still accessible in the Schaerbeek area via radio and telecommunications. At Dinant Station, there is currently an Infrabel Station Sub-Chief who is responsible for the signalling booth and for taking safety measures in this context. Infrabel Namur is scheduled to take over this signal booth in 2017 in the concentration planning of the signal booths. Once the resumption has taken place, only the window function will be maintained. It is impossible to ensure the continued presence of security services on all trains and stations. SNCB informs me that Sécurail's security service is directing its patrols based on the risk analysis. This means, in particular, that if incidents occur repeatedly in a station, their presence or that of the police will be strengthened. The Corporate Security Service also provides security advice to railway station management services. This includes, for example, taking into account lighting-related techno-prevention advice when designing and renovating stations. SNCB continuously implements a quality barometer to measure, among other things, travellers' sense of safety or insecurity. On the basis of the results, the Corporate Security Service can establish cooperation agreements with partners and develop preventive or repressive actions. SNCB set up a free emergency number at the Security Operations Centre (SOC) on 0800 30 230. This issue has been the subject of communication campaigns. SOC is the point of contact for security issues and suspicious actions. It can be reached permanently, the SNCB tells me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u46	Madam President, Minister, recently, Infrabel, the new owner of a public apartment building located in Saint-Gilles, decided to terminate the contract of occupancy for tens of railway cars by December 31, 2016. Infrabel justifies these expropriations by the fact that the building is too close to the international area of the Midi station and by the need to build a new signalling cabin. Some of these railway workers have lived in these apartments for more than twenty years. Deporting them could cause many social tragedies, especially at a time when affordable and decent housing is difficult to find in the 19 Brussels municipalities. CGSP warned Infrabel that, due to the circular of 16 October 2010, the expulsion of public housing between 1 December and 28 February is prohibited. CGSP calls for certain developments to be carried out in the vicinity of the building in order to guarantee the safety of the site and thus prevent these retired railway workers from losing their roofs. Minister, can you explain further the reasons for this expulsion? Are there no other possible solutions, such as an external security arrangement for the building in question? Can you give us more information about the collaboration between Infrabel and the Minister of Housing of the Brussels-Capital Region on the alternatives proposed to expelled railway workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u47	Mr Devin, in view of the establishment of the apartments rue de France, Infrabel's security services have decided not to extend the occupancy of these apartments for reasons related to its security policy. On the one hand, these apartments are located directly close to tracks 1 and 2 of the high-speed line of the Brussels-Midi train station. These tracks are currently subject to high security because of their assignment to Eurostar trains. The level of security of these areas is and will remain very high, as this is a high-security point required in the National Security Plan. It would therefore have been contradictory to the measures taken to strengthen security to maintain the possibility of observing these secure areas from apartments. On the other hand, these apartments are adjacent to the Brussels-Midi signalling station. Given its particularly important strategic role in the management of rail traffic, this signalling station has been officially recognized as a critical national infrastructure. Accordingly, Infrabel must take all necessary measures to reduce the risk of acts of malice in the broad sense (sabotage, acts of terrorism). Infrabel has had and continues to have contacts with the Minister of Housing of the Brussels Region. Infrabel has undertaken to respect the period of non-expulsion of social housing for the sake of equity and when it is not legally obliged to do so, since the housing on the rue de France is not social housing in the legal sense, having been made available to the railway workers under a fixed-term precarious occupation contract. In addition, as an employer, HR Rail has set up an accompanying service for railway occupants and has already contacted each of the persons concerned to assist them in their rehousing efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u48	Minister, on this last point, will these people be accommodated in public housing or will a private sector be promoted. I would point out that this is not a trap question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u49	All avenues are searched for. Sustained contacts are made with the Minister of Housing of Brussels. So I guess all the leads are being explored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u50	In Wallonia, deployments are a priority over new assignments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u51	Yes. Not knowing Brussels law, I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u52	These dwellings are not considered to be social housing. (...) There is therefore no possible transfer. Exceptions may be made. Expulsion in winter is prohibited in both public and private housing. This also applies to Infrabel. I have allowed myself this clarification since it was a question of Brussels law. Now I'm quiet. Mr Devin, do you still have a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u53	Madam President, I thank the bicephalous structure that responded to my last sub-question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u54	Madam President, Minister, at present 28 states of the European Union have a point licensing system. In France, the point licence has a capital of twelve points. For each infringement, the number of points is reduced. In Belgium, this system is a matter of debate. According to a national road safety survey, 46% of Belgians are in favour, 42% are against point permits, the rest being undecided. The debate also divides the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) and Touring Insurance. Touring considers the point permit to be a "blind system" because it does not take into account the circumstances of the offence committed. In addition, Touring insists that bad drivers always end up driving, either without a license or with false documents. Conversely, the IBSR considers that point permits can help increase road safety. Recently, we learned from the press that the Mobility FPS and the IBSR were studying the cost/benefit ratio of implementing this point permit system in the Road Traffic Code. Minister, can you describe precisely on what criteria and on what methodological basis the study of the SPF and the IBSR is based? When can we obtain the results of this study? Do you wish to introduce a point permit in the Highway Traffic Code? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u55	Mr Devin, I have asked my administration and the IBSR to conduct an in-depth study on the effectiveness and feasibility of the point permit in Belgium. Efficiency relates to the ratio of cost to profit, which results in recurrent investment costs, on the one hand, and gains in terms of decreasing the number of offences, accidents and victims, on the other. This cost-benefit ratio can also be calculated for other recidivism measures or systems. In order to carry out this analysis, a few point permit systems in a few states will be examined. The financial and operational costs of such a system will be analysed, among other things, in terms of both human resources and TCI. In need of contacts with foreign agencies, the research will last ten months, so that the result can be expected by the end of 2017. If the point permit were to be introduced, it would not be in the Road Traffic Code but in the Law of 16 March 1998 on the Road Traffic Police. The point permit is nothing more than a system for sanctioning recidivism, and its effects are similar to the deprivation of the right to drive. Therefore, it is all the rules currently applicable to recidivism and revocation contained in this Act that should be reviewed. The rules of procedure for immediate perception, criminal transaction and convictions would also be subject to an impact and a regulatory framework should be established, in particular to organise training and other systems through which points or permits could be recovered. It is currently not possible to decide on a deadline because the implementation of a point permit will depend on the results of the study and the implementation constraints it may reveal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u56	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u57	Madam President, Minister, according to the official statistics of the SPF Economy, 732 people died in a road accident in 2015 compared to 727 in 2014, a very slight increase of 0.7% but each death counts. However, the situation differs from Region to Region, as the number of deaths increased by 6.9% in Wallonia and declined in both Brussels and Flanders. Last year, roads were particularly deadly for bikers. Indeed, 100 bikers lost their lives in 2015. These are 15 more bikers than in 2014. Minister, what new measures do you intend to implement in the short and medium term, in order to reduce the increasing number of people killed on our roads? More specifically, what new measures do you envisage in the short and medium term, in order to reduce the number of bikers killed on our roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u58	Madam President, Mr Devin, I refer to the answer of 11 May 2016 to Parliamentary question No 11167 put by Mrs Thoron. On the basis of the measures proposed in the General States of Road Safety of 15 December 2015, my administration is currently considering as a priority five measures aimed at increasing safety: the limitation of the maximum permitted alcohol level in blood to 0.2 grams per litre of blood for inexperienced drivers, the more systematic use of alcohol recidivists driving with anti-start ethylotest Alcolock, of which we have already mentioned, the allocation of the costs of alternative penalties for offenders, better coordinated and more targeted controls on road transport fraud and, finally, the creation of a consultation platform for accident prevention. I will mention a number of projects under way: the creation of a database of immediate perceptions in order to identify repeat offenders, the linking of the data banks of the Mobility and Transport and Justice FPS to identify drivers who have lost their right to drive, the support for new technologies enabling vehicles to be safer, the modernisation of the Road Code, the systematisation of the use of ANPR cameras which automatically recognise license plates and which thus enable to verify whether the vehicle is properly insured and in technical order. Finally, my administration is currently developing a project to establish an institute to oversee in-depth road traffic accident research in order to identify its causes and enable appropriate measures to be taken to reduce their risks. These projects are carried out in close collaboration with the Regions and the various sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u59	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u60	Minister, I will formalize the question that I asked you last time. I often come back to this committee to ask you about the issue of waste disposal on railway tracks at the station in Tournai. I've been a happy man lately. Indeed, there was no more visible waste. Actually, they were covered in weeds... You will certainly have recognized the ironic tone of my remarks. They try to mask my annoyance at the problematic management of lane cleaning. Since the transfer of skills from the cleaning of the routes from Infrabel to the SNCB, I can see - and I can show you pictures taken by me, but I know you believe me - that the tracks are in a deplorable state at the station of Tournai. In mid-September, I noticed that weed size had been achieved. It had occurred a month and a half after the publication in the press of information on the subject. In the same way, it took me to intervene often with Mrs Galant last year for SNCB - with the help of Infrabel, who blocks and secures the tracks - to remove waste from the rails. I therefore note that, for one shot actions occurring after a political inquiry or press article, SNCB is responding, but that, in order to find a structural and effective solution, the railways are still to the absent subscribers. Minister, how do you intend to ensure that the tracks at Tournai station are cleaned and maintained more often? Do you have any structural solutions to offer? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u61	Mr Delannois, track ping is an exclusive prerogative of SNCB since the railway reform, since the teams and budgetary resources allocated to this task have been transferred to SNCB. It is my responsibility, however, that in order to enable its staff to undertake this work in the vicinity of the in-service lanes, an adjustment of the regulatory framework by amending a royal order is necessary. SNCB personnel must be assigned a safety function to enable them, after completing the required training, to carry out the strict procedures for Infrabel's signalling cabins. The adaptation of the Royal Order in question by the SSICF (Railway Safety and Interoperability Service) and the Mobility & Transport FPS is expected to be effective by the end of this year. On the other hand, the treatment of vegetation on the tracks, including the wharf tracks, has always been and will remain the responsibility of Infrabel. Since 2008, the latter has been using a weeding train equipped with an automatic vegetation detection system. In order to effectively combat its proliferation along the tracks, the intelligent train travels twice a year to process a total of about 10,000 kilometres of track. The first phase takes place from April to June and includes thirty-seven routes along the main routes of the network. The second, scheduled from the end of August to the end of September, aims to repeat the unsuccessful routes in the first season, following rains or incidents, and focuses mainly on areas where the plants are most tenacious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. I look forward to this royal decree by the end of the year. I'll take it as a gift from Saint Nicholas or Christmas. I thank you in advance if we can solve the waste problem. However, for the rest, there is still, I believe, a small problem. You're telling me we're going to spend twice a year. But I see that the problem is different from one station to another. I think that the problems are sometimes specific and, unfortunately, caused by certain people, which is of course regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u63	Madam President, Minister, after the waste along the railway tracks, let's talk about waste at airports. That doesn't change us much! One Lufthansa aircraft in take-off on Runway 07, and another from Aer Lingus, landing on Runway 01, nearly struck the tarmac at Brussels Airport on 5 October at about 8:40 p.m. According to the press, and your confirmation in plenary session, the Lufthansa pilot ignored Belgocontrol's instructions, asking him to wait before taking off. The disaster was prevented after the pilot of the Aer Lingus aircraft was instructed to go back to altitude, which is called a go-round measurement. This potentially serious incident highlights the issue of the use of Runway 01. According to the airport's mediation service, the use of runways 01 and 07 at that time was in no way justified by exceeding the wind standards on the preferential runways. In this kind of case, it is always extremely delicate since, between the time I tabled the question on 13 October, and today, information was published in Le Soir on 20 October. It states that, on the Live ATC site, which allows all conversations between the control tower and the pilots to be heard, we hear clearly the air traffic controller who tells the pilot in question that the wind is 6 knots to 70 degrees, and that, therefore, the runway was justified. You will need to confirm this information. It comes back to us that you asked DGTA for an audit of the choice of leads between 3 and 10 October and you answered some questions at the plenary session of the House on 13 October. Minister, could we have this announced audit, once it has been written? When will it be available? What were the speed and direction of the wind at the time of the incident? Can you confirm the Evening's information that it was 6 knots, 70 degrees, which justified the use of Runway 01? Were wind standards exceeded? Do you also intend to request an audit by DGTA on the application of wind standards by Belgocontrol in general? Are you considering an audit of the airport mediator who visibly gave information that would seem wrong if the Evening's information were true?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u64	Minister, on 5 October last, Brussels Airport would have avoided a collision between two passenger aircraft. Depending on runway usage, take-off and descending aircraft sometimes have to cross on the ground. The Autonomous Air Accident Investigation Cell shall conduct an investigation and prepare any recommendations. The airport is an economic engine for Brussels and the Capital Region and, of course, for the province of Brabant. The consequences of the tragic events of 22 March have shown the importance of the aviation sector in our country's economy and the international role of Brussels as its capital. There is an urgent need for a flight law that provides stability and legal certainty for all those who fly, live and operate in and around the airport, and for a sustainable and balanced solution to the noise pollution around the airport, where the nuisance is reduced as much as possible and distributed fairly. On 13 October, you pointed out in the press the importance of implementing the coalition agreement. You asked DGLV to check in an audit whether the choices for the jobs used between 3 and 10 October were in conformity with the obligations. The airlines that comply with the rules of the competent federal government are subject to fines from the Brussels-Capital Region. What is the state of play on the draft law? What is the expected timing? What was decided at the meeting with the regional ministers? What are the conclusions of the audit? What means of defence do the airlines have against the fines? How does this situation weigh on the investment climate and the competitive position of Brussels Airport? What is the estimated impact in terms of passengers and volume and in terms of economic growth? What are the conclusions of the investigation concerning the incident on 5 October 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of your questions, you are dealing with two different subjects, namely the problem of noise pollution caused by aircraft and the incident of 5 October last. I want to separate the two themes because they respond to two different approaches and have no cause and effect link. The first subject is complex and ancient, and previous methods have not brought any solution. Therefore, I would like to address it differently by analyzing the full range of solutions for each of the seven components identified. As part of this comprehensive approach, the creation of an independent authority will be considered as well as the added value of a law. I confirm that we are working on a list of measures to address this issue. It would be premature to highlight specific measures without the outcome of future discussions with all relevant federal and federated authorities in the appropriate platforms. My priority remains to maintain a constructive dialogue with all the actors involved. With regard to the audit requested from DGLV, I can confirm that an analysis will be carried out there on the basis of all the data on runway choices made between 3 and 10 October. According to DGLV, the results of this audit are expected at the beginning of November. I will inform you later on about the follow-up to the results of the audit. With regard to the second subject, since the incident of 5 October was classified as serious, the information was transmitted to the Independent Accident and Incident Investigation Authority, established by the Royal Decree of 8 December 1998. This cell, which has been seized, works independently. The investigation is under way. I therefore allow that authority, which has a relatively broad investigative power. In the meantime, I will refrain from giving further details about this incident. I also note that I was informed in the Chamber that the pilot had made a mistake. I didn't have that information and I don't know where it came from. One of your colleagues told me when he asked that the pilot had made a mistake. I don't know how he found out. Now we know, because we can listen to the tapes. At the end of its work, the Autorité will submit a report to the Mobility FPS. I invite you to wait for the outcome of this investigation. With regard to the report delivered to me by the two mediators, it should first of all be clarified that it concerns an analysis of the content of the complaints relating to the use of job 1. It's not the only thing I've gotten on this. I've also received a lot of e-mails from neighborhood residents. As a reminder, the mediation service was established by the Royal Decree of 15 March 2002 and, according to the legislation in force, its competence extends to the collection of information to deal with the causes of complaints and the treatment of suggestions from residents. The autonomy and independence of this service is paramount in relation to all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The DGTA report will be read carefully, but there is no doubt that more transparency is needed. You are between two fires and must untie the false of the true between the various associations defending the residents. Transparency can be ensured thanks to the future work of the independent authority, which is enshrined in the law, thanks to the information that operators – Belgocontrol and other bodies – can give on the Internet. Perhaps the Ombudsman should also be asked to disseminate correct information, which is not always the case, according to the press. This transparency will help you better manage the pull between the various associations of residents who are all engaged in a legitimate fight for the people they represent but do not solve the problems in the long term. The only long-term solution is to reduce and then eliminate the most problematic flights, namely night flights. Now you'll have less trouble. That is the solution that our group is defending.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, we are all in happy expectation of flying law, and I do not need to stress that you need to come out quickly. In this context, I would like to urge you to step up the pace. Of course, you must first enter into dialogue in order to explore all possible avenues and all possible elements. Furthermore, as far as the use of jobs is concerned, we are, of course, looking forward to the findings of the DGLV audit, which we expect at the beginning of November. Finally, we absolutely must avoid incidents above and around the airport, such as that of 5 October. Of course, you cannot anticipate the investigation, but I would like an answer from you as to the timing of the investigation. When will we get the results of this? Did the pilot take off early? Did it have anything to do with the job choice? Did the air traffic controllers make a mistake? All these questions need to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u68	Madam President, Minister, we recently learned from the press that one in ten trains was far behind in 2016. On average, 89.7% of trains were up to 6 minutes late in the first six months of this year. If we look at the number of trains deleted, this bad result gets worse: on average, there are 5,127 trains deleted per month, with peaks up to 11,830 fewer trains in May and 7,812 in June. SNCB has officially acknowledged that the statistics for this first half of the year are not good. Minister, what measures are you going to implement to improve punctuality on Belgian rail? Can you tell us how punctuality has evolved since 2010? Can you tell us how many trains have been deleted per month every year since 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u69	Madam President, Mr Devin, punctuality is the focus of Infrabel's attention, in particular through the specific measures, of which I will mention six. 1. Daily monitoring of punctuality and incidents. An internal committee called "Input" meets on a monthly basis to review incidents and take corrective action. 2. Close collaboration with SNCB. The monthly meeting of the PIP (Agreement-Punctuality Platform) with the SNCB is intended to list problems that have occurred on the network and to take corrective action to improve punctuality. 3. The feedback meetings. This committee, called "Rex", analyses incidents that have caused a minimum delay of 1,000 minutes, as well as sensitive incidents. 4. SNCB – Infrabel joint working groups for lines or places where punctuality is the least effective. 5. The introduction of seasonal measurements; for example, in case of high heat, in winter, adhesion problems, leaf problems, etc. 6. As an infrastructure manager, Infrabel also undertakes measures to limit the consequences caused by third-party causes: trespassing, theft of cables or suicides or attempted suicides, accidents at crossings, various measures with the actors concerned in order to reduce the number of cases of people in or along roads, by awareness campaigns, the setting up of dissuasive fences, surveillance by cameras at sensitive locations, etc. For example, yesterday the trains had to be stopped in the North-Midi junction following the presence of people in the tunnel. As regards SNCB, in order to improve punctuality on the network, punctuality is given to all actions aimed at reducing the number of incidents, both in terms of equipment and infrastructure. In addition, attention is maintained in 2016 for the first departure, respecting the timetables provided for the exit from the original station, with a view to promoting the regularity of rail traffic. I will give you a table showing the evolution of punctuality without neutralisation between 2010 and 2015, and a table showing the number of trains deleted per month since 2014. It should be noted that social movements and security measures related to the attacks mainly explain the negative trend observed for the beginning of 2016. The table shows that punctuality increased from 85.7% in 2010 to 90.9% in 2015. However, for 2016, we will have a deterioration in punctuality due to the elements I have indicated to you, in particular as a result of the attacks and the suppression or difficulties of traffic during the strikes. These elements are also taken into account when calculating punctuality. You have a list of all deleted trains. In 2014, there were 30,510; in 2015, 22,657, and this year, 33,036, already at that time, but the months of May and June were particularly important from this point of view, as a result of social movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u70	I will come back to this specific subject to point out the social movements, but we can see that every month there has been a significant increase. However, there have been no major social movements every month. We will therefore be able to verify what is happening in the second half of the year and draw the necessary conclusions. Thank you for all the elements you have provided, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u71	Delivering quality service to the customer and increasing the current capacity of trains on the networks are two of the priorities of SNCB, Minister. Recently, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo declared in the press the imperative need for SNCB to seek a private partnership with the necessary expertise in this area. Therefore, this partner would take a share of the capital of the public company. Does the federal government intend to seek a private partner from SNCB? If so, within what time frame? What would be the modalities of this partnership? How do you intend to ensure SNCB's public service missions, particularly in terms of service and quality, within this hypothetical partnership?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u72	At present, I do not intend to make any changes to the legislative framework established by the Act of 21 March 1991 with regard to the ownership of Infrabel and SNCB. This framework now guarantees public authorities a shareholding of at least more than 50% of the capital, and more than 75% of the votes and mandates, in the bodies of these companies. Even in compliance with these regulations, the use of private capital is not currently on the agenda. What is on the agenda is the urgent need for SNCB, as well as Infrabel, to improve their services so that they can also continue tomorrow in a liberalised railway landscape. That is why my predecessor and I have been investing for months already in putting in place an increase in productivity. Although this is not obvious in the budgetary context we know, it is only a matter of achieving quality objectives, which can be compared with what is being practiced in neighbouring countries, and therefore assure SNCB, in 2023, that it will be able to continue, in a quasi-monopoly situation, the public service mission. The European Commission will evaluate the performance criteria in 2022, and if we reach them with SNCB, we will be able to maintain the public service mission exclusively within SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u73	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u74	Madam Chair, Minister, recently, a study by the IBSR found that only 29% of children were well attached when they were in the car that brought them to school, just over a quarter of them. This finding is particularly worrying that the study also points out that four out of ten children are injured on their way to school. Between 2010 and 2012, 15 children were victims of a fatal accident on their way to school, i.e. 40 per cent of all children killed in a road accident in Belgium during this period. Minister, do you intend to implement measures to improve the safety of schoolchildren on their way to school? If so, what are these measures? Is an awareness-raising campaign for parents and students planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u75	Dear colleague, I refer to the answer I gave on 12 July 2016 to Parliamentary question No 13117 by Mrs Thoron. In summary, communication and awareness-raising are now the responsibility of the regional authorities. However, various information brochures detailing the correct way to attach children can be found on the IBSR website. These are children's sites incar.be and Kinderenindeauto.be. On these sites, small films showing how to properly tie a child according to its size can be viewed. Moreover, it would be desirable for schools to take the initiative to project these images. I would add that the wearing of the belt and the use of child restraints are permanent points of attention during frequent police checks. In 2015, 78,781 offences related to seat belts and child seats were identified. In addition, since 1 March 2013, child restraint offences have moved from the first to the third degree, as they pose a direct danger to users.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very sincerely for this useful reminder. I must confess that I no longer remember your answer to Mrs Thoron's question of 12 July. Perhaps this is due to what struck several of our fellow citizens during the evening of 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u77	Minister, we have learned from the press that 641 acts of passenger violence were recorded in 2015. This figure shows only complaints registered with SNCB and not those directly addressed to the police. It is noted that these attacks are often related to lack of space on trains, incivilities, delays. Minister, what is in place to prevent these acts of violence between commuters? What measures will you implement to reduce this number of attacks? If you have already answered Mrs Thoron in July, I would point out that my question concerns the current period and what you can implement in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u78	Mr Devin, the Securail security service reinforces its presence on the first and last trains as well as on at-risk trains. The emergency number 0800 30 230 is also displayed in all railway infrastructure in order to allow security and police services to intervene as quickly as possible. The new SNCB trains will also be equipped with a surveillance camera system to deter the perpetrators of attacks, but also to facilitate repression. However, I would add that the punishment of attacks remains primarily the responsibility of the local police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u79	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u80	Mr. Minister, we have learned disturbing statistics about the risky behaviour of some commuters around railway rails. You have just echoed this about what happened recently in the North Midi Tunnel. In just seven months, 474 reports of risky behaviour were recorded. These are mainly selfies near the wharfs, walks along the railway tracks and also lack of vigilance at level crossings. Minister, do you intend to implement specific measures to make these people aware of the risks involved in the vicinity of the railway? Is an awareness campaign planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u81	Mr Devin, Infrabel conducts annual awareness-raising activities with different target audiences, in order to recall the risks involved when dangerous behaviour is adopted in and around the roads. Since 2016, Infrabel has conducted a survey of dangerous behaviours in order to better understand the underlying motivations and to better identify the public to raise awareness. The survey found that those most likely to engage in this risky behaviour were men between the ages of 18 and 34. The main reason why they adopt this type of behavior is time saving. Among other things, Infrabel carries out the following actions: 1. Sensitization spots. Infrabel launched in 2009, 2014, 2015 and 2016 several awareness campaigns aimed at the general public in the form of large-format posters in stations and/or in the form of spots broadcast via Facebook, Youtube or on television. All past campaigns can be reviewed on the website. 2. Discovery Business Day. Infrabel participates annually in October in the Découverte Entreprises Day by opening several of its sites to the general public. Awareness-raising activities against risky behaviour in and around the lanes are provided for children between 6 and 10 years of age. 3. In the festivals. In August 2016, during the Pukkelpop festival, Infrabel conducted an awareness-raising campaign at the Kiewit stop point to encourage festivalgoers to adopt safe behaviors near the tracks. This action has been a success. In 2017, other festivals will experience the same kind of actions. 4. In primary schools. In order to raise awareness among the youngest, Infrabel distributes every year to all primary schools in the country its great calendar of schoolchildren. It is a useful tool for teachers, in which are taken up the main tips for safe behaviour on and around crossings. For the 2016-2017 academic year, Infrabel also organizes a creative contest for schools and families to encourage all actors to deepen, in class or at home, awareness of dangerous behaviours. Infrabel also provides teachers who wish to do so with two didactic games. 5. Infrabel is also present in secondary schools that contact her or whose students adopt risky behaviours. A 50-minute awareness lesson has been developed and can be dispensed. 6. At the request of the authorities, the police and Securail, specific awareness-raising activities can also be carried out in order to prevent or respond to a local phenomenon. I want to point out something that has recently been done in a city where there are a lot of incidents on the roads. An awareness-raising campaign was carried out by local authorities, in agreement with the various schools, to recall the dangers posed by railways, with emphasis on the need to cross where it is planned, in accordance with the rules as laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u82	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u83	Madam President, Minister, the Brussels Court of Appeal has delivered a judgment which obliges SNCB to remove all its advertising signs at all its stations. These are about 1,700 panels (2 to 36 square meters) and about 100 digital screens. The legal proceedings began when JCDecaux, a French industry group specializing in urban advertising, brought an action for cessation before the commercial court. SNCB and Publifer and Clear Channel Belgium won first instance. But on appeal, the judges agreed with JCDecaux. The Court of Appeal ordered the termination of the operation of this market and also granted a period of eight months, from the date of service of the judgment, to the SNCB and the companies concerned to dismantle all the billboards. Minister, what are the actions taken by SNCB to enforce the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal? Will the billboards be dismantled? If so, when? JCDecaux stated that it did not want the disassembly of the billboards but simply that the public market was open. Have there been any negotiations between SNCB, the partner companies Publifer, Clear Channel Belgium and JCDecaux? If so, can you tell us the state of the discussions between the different parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u84	Mr Devin, by contract of 1 January 1992, the former unitary SNCB granted Publifer the exclusive right to operate advertising in the Belgian railway sector for a period of 30 years. More than 20 years later, on 5 December 2012, JCDecaux brought an action before the Brussels Commercial Court to challenge the legality of this advertising concession and to obtain its termination. This action was dismissed by a judgment of the President of the Brussels Commercial Court against which JCDecaux brought an appeal. The Brussels Court of Appeal reformed the judgment of the first instance and allowed JCDecaux's application. It ordered the termination of the advertising concession and the posting of advertising devices in blank within eight months from the date of service of the judgment. The Court of Appeal does not require the dismantling of advertising signs. Like any court decision, this judgment must be respected by the parties and the SNCB will comply with it. SNCB informs me that it wishes to maintain an advertising activity in the Belgian railway sector. Since JCDecaux served the judgment on 9 September 2016, SNCB is currently exploring the concrete follow-up to the Brussels Court of Appeal ruling in order to ensure the continuation of advertising activity beyond 9 May 2017. SNCB has several options to execute the stop and continue advertising in the Belgian railway sector in a manner consistent with it. The only measure ordered by the Court of Appeal is the termination of the enforcement of the existing concession agreement. As with any SNCB activity in which the commercial market is also active, detailed information on the measures that SNCB takes or wishes to take should not yet be disclosed. But it goes without saying that each step taken by SNCB in the context of this dossier is made and will be carried out in compliance with the legislation applicable to it as a public undertaking and with respect for the financial and strategic interests of the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u85	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u86	Honestly, Madam Chair, this question is the best of all my questions. You will understand very quickly why. Minister, I asked you a few months ago about the project to integrate SNCB security officers (Securail) into the federal police force. My excellent colleague and our president, Karine Lalieux, had done the same before the holidays. Have you ever understood why this is the best question, Madam President? Mr. Minister, your answers reassured us as to the continued specificity of Securail's agents. You proposed an alternative to integration. It would be for well-defined missions in the context of terrorism to place Securail under the temporary operational command of the police. In addition, security officers and police personnel could use the same radio frequency for some missions. You had also envisaged, in particular, separating the missions of Securail "large stations" from all the rest of the territory, since, in the large stations, their mission is close to that of the police, whereas elsewhere, it is mainly about controls and administrative police services. Minister, what is the status of negotiations with the Minister of the Interior on the options you have put on the table? Do you confirm that there will be no integration of Securail into the federal police and that the service will retain its specificity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u87	Madam President, Mr Devin, I will be very clear. Discussions are still under way and I support my willingness to maintain the rail anchor of Securail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u88	Minister, thank you for the clarity of your answer. As we interviewed you before the holidays, we will of course come back to the rest of this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u89	Mr. Secretary, I always take the train in Ghent Dampoort. I note that the only escalator available on the two platforms of the Ghent-Dampoort station has been out of service for some time. For me that is not a problem, I just take the stairs, but it remains unclear whether and when a repair can be expected. The less mobile train traveller must already turn to the elevator to get comfortable on the platforms, which are at a certain height. A well-functioning escalator in the station is therefore not an unnecessary luxury. What's taking you so long to fix the escalator? Could you check that and make sure that the escalator is restored, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u90	Minister, the only escalator has been broken for several months in the Ghent-Dampoort station. The freight elevator that is about 40 years old still works but blocks regularly. At such moments it is impossible for less mobile people to take the train in Ghent-Dampoort. People in wheelchairs need to be carried up two stairs. That's a really big problem. In the same station the toilet is also not available on Sunday because the concessionaire keeps the toilets closed on that day. The station retains its public function on Sundays. The passengers can also take the train on Sundays but they can't go to the toilet. Why hasn't work been done on repairing the escalator in the last few months? After all, it's been broken for several months. When will the escalator be repaired? Is the Sunday closure of the toilet at Ghent-Dampoort station included in the concession agreement? What about the other station toilets on Sunday? If this is not included in the concession, on what basis is a distinction made between the stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u91	The lift at the station Gent-Dampoort is of the Daelemans brand and dates from 1974 while the escalator of the construction year is 1973. This makes certain parts less common. Although a maintenance contract has been concluded with the company KONE, it does not even appear evident to them to reach certain parts in the short term. As soon as the parts are available for repair, this will be carried out. They must maintain the lift and escalator at least six times a year. There may be a maximum of 70 days between two consecutive maintenance visits. A purchase file was also started to replace the current escalator with a new one. The start of the renewal of the station can start at the earliest from 2026. However, the proposal of SNCB's 2016-2020 multi-annual investment plan envisages several maintenances and investments in Gent-Dampoort, including replacing the escalators. Of the 14 stations where the plumbing is operated by a third operator until today, under a commercial concession agreement, only the sanitary facilities at the Brussels Luxembourg station are not accessible during the weekend. This is due to the low number of passengers in this station during the weekend. The opening scheme of the plumbing which is the subject of a service contract is included in that agreement but is adapted to the local situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u92	I understand they're waiting for parts. That's a weird story. I take the train there a lot. It's not a problem for me, but it's a problem for less mobile people. We must ensure that in the short term the companies to whom these contracts are awarded can also provide for spare parts. This cannot be explained to the people who have to wait four or five months. I notice that there is also a question in this committee about a long-term faulty escalator in Mechelen's station. We really need to take this as a focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u93	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. However, you will understand that we, gentners, are not really satisfied with the answer. I understand they're very old escalators. However, for its users in the station Gent-Dampoort that is really a problem. I would therefore ask you to put pressure on those who have to make the escalators work so that they can make them faster. After all, a period of six months is totally irresponsible. Do I understand correctly that only the toilets in the Luxembourg station should not be opened on Sundays? So normally the toilets in the station Gent-Dampoort should be open. Did I get that correctly? I think you said that there was only a problem with the opening of the toilets on Sundays at the Brussels-Luxembourg station. So, in Ghent, the toilet should be accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u94	On Sunday, this is left to the free choice of the service provider.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u95	The concessionary is therefore free to choose for himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u96	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u97	That should change in the future. Ghent Dampoort is not a small station. There are two stations in Ghent. Ghent-Sint-Pieters is of course the main station, but Ghent-Dampoort is a fairly large station, which makes the connection between Ghent and Antwerp. In the future, the concession agreement must make sure that toilets are open on Sundays as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u98	They must be open at every station at any time and every weekday. The opening on Sundays isn't in the contract right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u99	That's exactly what I mean. It is necessary to put in the contract that we also have to open on Sundays in the stations a little large. Gent-Dampoort is a large station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u100	What is a large station, what is a small station and what is a medium-sized station? That's different. Any traveller can expect the same service at all stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u101	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u102	Mrs. Temmerman, please close. I give you the floor one last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u103	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you this. You're right. Every traveller is entitled to the same service at each station. You must therefore also ensure that the concession agreement states that they must be open every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u104	Questions No 14493 by Mr Demon and No 14528 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u105	Madam President, Minister, I come back to this issue for which I had already asked you in this committee on 15 June. So I'm not going to repeat the exact history. At the time, you assured us that according to the forecasts of the Luxembourg Railways (CFL), the approval of their equipment for the connections between Virton and Luxembourg (via Rodange) on line 165 was to be in order at the end of June 2016 and that this was confirmed to you by the SSCIF (Belgian Railway Safety Authority) Since 6 June 2016, CFLs no longer have sufficient trainsets not equipped with ETCS to operate the trains between Virton and Rodange and return, the service being temporarily replaced by buses to ensure the connection. However, from a well-informed source, it is my responsibility that Infrabel must always issue the authorisation allowing CFL trains to operate again. You will agree that this situation embarrasss many travellers and undermines the very future of line 165. A final press release highlighted the fact that we should even wait until December 12, 2016. Therefore, Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, within what reasonable time will CFL trains be able to operate again with this approval?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u106	Madam, for the effective management of the file, I am in constant contact with my colleague Willy Borsus, in charge of the Service for Safety and Interoperability of Railways (SSICF), responsible for certifications. It is the latter service which is in charge of issuing the approval of CFL equipment which allows it to circulate on the Belgian network. Since this is a problem relating to the circulation of Luxembourg equipment on Belgian and Luxembourg networks, SNCB is not directly concerned with the solutions to be sought. If the traffic on line 165, in the sense of Luxembourg – Belgium, does not pose any particular problems, the same is not true when Luxembourg equipment circulates in the direction of Belgium – Luxembourg. In fact, it is my responsibility that the 2200 series of Luxembourg motor cars equipped with ETCS level 1 and TBL1+ (to operate in Belgium) are not allowed to return to the CFL network again, since the arrival of the first Luxembourg signal A 610. To be clear, Luxembourg equipment can pass from Luxembourg to Belgium and drive in Belgium, but as soon as it returns to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, because it was originally in TBL1+, it cannot be recognized in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to re-circulate in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Current concerns about the movement of car drivers in the Aubange–Rodange direction would be linked to files loaded in the transitional beacons on the Luxembourg network. We are therefore facing a problem of circulation of CFL equipment on the CFL network. In order to resolve these difficulties, contacts have long been made between infrastructure managers. The last meeting was held on 11 October. The two infrastructure managers, Belgian and Luxembourg, confirm their willingness to meet the ETCS commissioning target set at the end of 2016. This commissioning will also solve the problem of the traffic of Luxembourg motor vehicles. In the meantime, the replacement buses put into service by the CFLs will continue to operate between Rodange and Virton for as long as necessary in order to offer an alternative to the passengers concerned. Again, I would point out that this situation does not in any way affect the future of line 165. These are simply the "joyedness" of the passage in the new versions of the safety devices, and in particular the ETCS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u107	Thank you, Minister. Your answer is reassuring. I think travellers will be happy to learn that they can continue to benefit from this line. We will therefore be waiting for December to know whether this problem actually finds a solution. If so, I will come back to you with other questions in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u108	Mr Minister, one of the points of action in the plan for fair competition in the transport sector, signed at the beginning of February, is to increase the number of checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. These vehicles often remained under the radar because they do not have to comply with a series of obligations such as tachographs, transport permits and so on. The answer given by Secretary of State De Backer to my written question shows that the distinction between checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes and those of more than 3.5 tonnes is currently not included in the statistics of the FPS Mobility Inspection Services. Therefore, only figures on the total number of checks carried out are recorded. Mr Minister, since the statistics do not distinguish between controls on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes and those of more than 3.5 tonnes, it is not possible to check whether the action plan is implementing the measure in question. Will you ask the inspection services of the FPS Mobility to make this division from now on?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u109	As I replied to your previous question, it is not possible at present to distinguish between checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. The FPS Mobility and its inspection services are currently implementing the fair competition plan. This division of data is also part of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u110	Mr. Secretary, I'll take the plan. Action 6, national measures: targeted checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. I want to understand from the figures that there are more targeted controls, but in the action plan that is a green line. That means it's being ticked off, that it's being executed. So as long as the figures are not broken down, we cannot conclude that this action line has been implemented. I understand from you that we are working today on the division of these figures. I'll follow that up with you. I hope that this division can be made in the short term and that we can then make a proper evaluation of the action point from the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u111	Mr. Geerts is coming. We haven't heard from Mrs. Dedry. His question no. 14586 therefore becomes moot or is postponed. We come to Question No 14651 by Mr. Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u112	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u113	Questions Nos 14651 and 14652 Van den Bergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u114	Mr Minister, the work on implementing the GEN on line 161 between Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve and the Brussels-Luxembourg station has almost been carried out. A total of EUR 566 million has already been invested. The next step is to increase the provision of services on line 161. In concrete terms, this means that one wants to go to a frequency of 4 trains per hour through all stations on this line. This was envisaged at the start of the GEN. For this we may not have to put four tracks along the entire length of the line. It may be simpler and less expensive. A proposal that Infrabel himself investigates is to lay four tracks somewhere on a section of the line so that the IC trains, the fast trains, can still drive on that section while the local S trains continue to operate on the other two tracks. I personally think this is a very pragmatic solution that can dramatically increase supply in the short term, bring more people on the train and help reduce congestion around our capital. Minister, I have a few questions in this context. Has Infrabel completed the study to equip a section of line 161 with four tracks? If not, when will the study be available? If so, what is the proposed route? What will be the cost of building four tracks on such a sub-road? Within what time can the four tracks on the sub-route be constructed? Finally, I would like to ask a question about railroad 124. Is the same solution being examined for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u115	At this stage, the full extension of the line to 3 tracks is still registered in the GEN. For the reactivation of the GEN, priority could be given to certain sections, namely Watermaal-Bakenbos and the branch from Ottignies to Louvain-la-Neuve. Works to bring both sections to 4 tracks are estimated at EUR 150 million. Other works must be added which must be carried out in parallel on the sections remaining on 2 tracks. The cost of this will depend on the adopted implementation scenario. The aim is to initiate the cooperation with other investment projects in the multi-annual investment plan to continue the construction of the GEN network. Infrabel informs me that at least 8 years will be needed to extend the mentioned sections to 4 tracks. However, scenarios were considered for a partial extension of line 124 to 4 tracks. For more details, please refer to the answer to the written question No. 1578.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u116	Minister, I am very pleased to hear that the study is already further on. I am mayor of the municipality of Hoeilaart and live 300 meters from Beakenbos. We have two stations on that line, so I am very pleased that the Watermaal-Bakenbos section is being examined. I would advise you to do that, by the way. It's a straight piece. I walk there a lot. It's very easy to build that trajectory. I believe it will be a breakthrough for the whole region, both Flemish and Walloon Brabant. I'm glad there's light at the end of the rail tunnel for line 161. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u117	Mr Minister, since the sixth state reform, driving training has been a regional competence. This includes continuing training and vocational training with regard to driving licences C and D. It was decided at the October 2015 Consultation Committee that the Mobility and Transport FPS would transfer the competence of professional drivers from November 2015, subject to future different case law of the Council of State. In a letter from your predecessor, Mrs Jacqueline Galant, addressed to the Flemish Minister of Mobility on 3 March 2016, it was stated that the competent authority was changed from federal to Flemish in the Royal Decrees of 22 March 2014 on the carriage of goods by road and on the carriage of passengers by road. Consequently, the regions have immediately become competent for the provisions resulting from Regulation No. 1071/2009, namely on access to the profession. In the same letter, Mrs Galant also stressed that it is important that there should be no gaps in the provision of services. However, the transfer from the federal level was anything but smooth. In addition, the transfer of files, knowledge and computer applications took place without the transfer of the necessary resources and staff. The Flemish government will do everything in its power to deal with the files received as soon as possible. Nevertheless, within the Department of Mobility and Public Works, files on the recognition of teachers and the approval of training modules are sometimes subject to a very long lead time. This also exceeds the approval period of the training modules and the programme in some cases. I do not have to convince you that this is causing economic damage to the sector. Through political games, instructors and companies cannot perform their jobs properly. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Is the information correct that you have initiated an annihilation procedure against the Flemish Government's decision of 15 June 2015 that the powers that were transferred to the Flemish government by the sixth state reform are converted into Flemish regulations? Will the Region finally soon be given the staff and resources to which it has the right to properly implement this competence and the services provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the answer to the written parliamentary question No. 1422 of 2 May 2016 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu. Several legal disputes are currently pending in the context of the regionalised powers of the FPS Mobility and Transport under the Sixth State Reform. As none of those proceedings relate to the decision of the Flemish Government of 15 June 2015, I believe that your question concerns the application for annulment lodged on 23 October 2015 with the Council of State, Department of Administrative Law, against the decision of the Flemish Government of 10 July 2015 amending the regulations relating to mobility policy, public works and transport and road safety policy, as regards powers transferred in the framework of the sixth state reform. The Federal Government considers that certain articles of that decision relate to federal powers, such as technical requirements of vehicles, professional competence and market access in goods and passenger transport. The Flemish Region is of the opinion that it is competent to do so, on the basis of various regional powers relating to transport, road safety policy and conditions of establishment/accès à la profession. On 18 March 2016, the federal government received the response from the Flemish Region and on 17 May 2016 the federal government submitted its response. In particular, on 28 October 2015, the Consultation Committee recognised the competence of the Regions in this area, subject to a decision by the Council of State, and stated that the Regions themselves could deal with the applications for professional competence, as regards professional competence, access to Cronos and recognition of training centres. The FPS Mobility and Transport has been able to do this, but still wishes to inform you, for the sake of completeness, that neither the Brussels Capital Region nor the Walloon Region have so far dealt with applications for professional competence. Furthermore, the FPS Mobility and Transport awaits the auditoral report of the Council of the State. Following the Sixth State Reform, the Special Law of 6 January 2014 reforming the financing of the Communities and the Regions to extend the tax autonomy of the Regions and to finance the new powers was implemented. Consequently, under the Sixth State Reform, all staff and resources were already transferred to the Regions. As no additional transfer of staff and resources is foreseen, no staff and resources will be transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u119	Minister, I have received an answer to all my questions. Of course, this sixth state reform has caused a great deal of fragmentation in terms of road safety and mobility. I will probably have to ask you a lot of questions about how far this is going or how far it is going with that. Thank you for answering all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u120	Mr President, Minister, the Office for Registration of Vehicles of the Federal Public Service Mobility is responsible for the registration of motor vehicles, motorcycles and trailers of more than 750 kilograms. I hear signs of problems with the central database and the exchange of data. In particular, the provision of information from the FOD would be problematic. The malfunctioning of this database leads to false positive and/or false negative registrations in the ANPR network. Many people use that network and you can imagine that the incorrect information in it creates a lot of frustration and extra work. The owner of a vehicle must, if necessary, send his certificate to the police to prove that his vehicle has been subject to an inspection. The police, in turn, must contact the GOCA to compare the vehicle's certificate with the reality. For the GOCA, it gives rise to frustrations because the information has to be verified again and then passed on to the FPS Mobility. An internal audit at the FPS Mobility was already carried out in 2014. In that audit, recommendations were made for a better functioning of the DIV. Two years later, it seems, at least according to the signals that are circulating. Mr. Secretary, would you like to clarify the matter? Is it true that the FPS Mobility was failed by the GOCA? If so, when exactly did that happen? What happened after the formal notice? What actions have been taken in the meantime? What timetable do you propose to allow the database to enter into full operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u121	Colleague, the FPS Mobility and Transport was failed by the GOCA by letter dated 27 November 2015. Following this letter of formal notice, a consultation between the FPS Mobility and Transport and the GOCA took place on 15 January 2016. The following points were raised at this meeting: the daily data flow between the FPS Mobility and Transport and the GOCA, as well as problems in completing the approval files and exchanging data from authorised vehicles. A technical working group was also set up. This working group met three times and submitted its final report on 26 February 2016. This final report drew up the actions and concrete proposals already undertaken to resolve the problems mentioned above. The implementation of these proposals has led to a quality improvement of data in the DIV database. In order to maintain quality, the data exchange with the GOCA will be monitored on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u122	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which leads me to conclude that there would be an improvement in quality at the moment. I would advise you to check whether this is the case, because I have been asked about this recently. After all, it is the role of Members of Parliament to signal matters, including to you. It is quite possible that the quality has improved, and I want to be positive about your answer, but it is reported that it is not yet optimal. I believe that this matter should be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u123	Parliament adopted a resolution in spring 2016 to promote the combination of bike and train more. The government was asked to further develop bicycle rental in the stations and to develop a bicycle system in the majority of stations in the long term. I suggested doing so in all stations, but in the text it eventually became a majority of the stations. Blue-bike can play an important role in this. If we want to achieve a modal shift, then we need to make the train, including forward and downstream routes, more interesting than the car. Investing in sharing bike systems at stations can lead to greater modal shift in sustainable transport for the sake of co-modality and strengthening each other's assets. My previous question showed that Blue-bike aims to grow to 30 000 users per year in Flanders by 2017. In the long term, the success of the OV-fiets in the Netherlands will be looked at. In view of cycling culture and population, Belgium should be able to make 750 000 journeys. Nevertheless, the operation and support of the Dutch OV-fiets is completely different from the Blue-bikes in our country. Research shows that 30% of Blue Bikeritts are linked to new train journeys. The larger the Blue-bike network, the more potential and additional train passengers. This immediately stated that the Blue Bike system offers an important added value to SNCB. We are concerned about reports that subsidies or support from SNCB would be phased out. What is SNCB's cycling strategy? What measures are being taken to encourage the use of bicycles by rail passengers? How much has SNCB invested in Blue-Bike over the past five years? Can you give me a split a year? What exactly was that budget used for? Do B-Parking and Blue-Mobility have the ambition to continue investing in Blue-Bike? If so, can you explain that further? Do you believe that SNCB should be obliged to continue investing in a bicycle system through management contracts? How do you evaluate the operation and support of the Dutch OV-fiets? Do you want to evolve into a similar system in Belgium? How does SNCB evaluate the operation and support of the Dutch OV-fiets? What aspects of this do SNCB intend to take over in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u124	SNCB is committed to the development of an integrated public transport service. One of the aspects is the development of an intermodal global offer. The starting point for this cycling strategy is the focus on the capacity and comfort of the bicycle shed, space for new bicycle types, and all types of bicycles, the train users, an active role and participation of the municipalities and cities, an additional service to train passengers and the further development of the cooperation with B-Parking, which manages the bicycle sheds. SNCB primarily invests in the expansion and comfort of the bicycle sheds for all its passengers, both commuters and occasional travellers, with attention to e.g. floor shelves, safety, cover and lighting. Secure areas for bicycles will certainly receive attention and be further developed. Currently around 1 300 Blue bikes are available to travellers across the 48 rental locations. The first investment in 2010 was EUR 661,000. This amount concerned the purchase of the bicycles, the development of the necessary software and the purchase of the hand scanner for 41 locations. It was repaid by Blue-Mobility in the form of rent money during the course of the project. Afterwards, an investment of €902 000 was made for the installation of key machines in the locations concerned. After 2013, EUR 587 000 was made available for investments in additional Blue Bike lending points and the increase in the capacity of existing lending points. In addition to this investment, SNCB also provides the necessary space for the Blue Bikes. Since 2015, B-Parking, a subsidiary of SNCB, has been the main shareholder of Blue-bike. B-Parking is responsible for the management and operation of passenger car parks, bicycles and motorcycles, the monitoring and management of bicycle points, the follow-up of bicycle parts, the follow-up study and the management of mobility and intermobility projects at the stations as well as the operation of parking facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I feel that you have not answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u126	As regards the demand related to the different locations, the sites shall be regularly evaluated, monitoring decreases and increases in the use of the Blue Bikes and enabling them to be adjusted smoothly. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that De Lijn and SRWT are also shareholders of Blue Mobility. The extension of Blue-bike is therefore not limited to the Blue-bike points in the train stations. In the case of the bicycle system, the Netherlands cooperates with the municipalities that make the investment before enlargement. The operational operation is supported by the NS, as the OV-fiets belongs entirely to the NS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is important that SNCB continues to invest via B-Parking in the bike sharing system, which must be Blue-Bike. It is good that bicycle storage is invested. However, these stalls are mainly for the passengers who come by bike to the station and with which a range of action is made around the station that ensures that they can safely leave them there. That's one side of the story. If there is no proper after-transport by bus or tram, there is a range of about 2 km on foot to convince passengers to take the train. If bicycles can be made available at that time, this range is immediately extended to 10 km, thus greatly increasing the attraction of the trains but also of the buses of De Lijn and of SRWT. It is therefore a good system, which is really complementary, in order to develop public transport as an attractive alternative to the car. So I hope the rumor is that you haven't really gone into it, that B-Parking would stop its investments in Blue-Mobility, isn't right, and that Blue-Mobility, together with the municipalities, can build the Blue-Bike Points, not only near the train stations but also elsewhere. It is important that SNCB continue to participate in this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u128	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Van Hecke (Commission); Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u129	Mr President, I have been in contact with Mr Van Hecke by e-mail and he had no problem with me asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u130	Mr President, I have contacted Mr Van Hecke. He didn't mind my asking my question. I also sent him an e-mail. I would also like to return to Blue-Mobility, Minister. I have just read an answer from Minister Weyts in the Flemish Parliament. He says that Flanders is prepared to make an additional capital increase of EUR 180 000. He is awaiting a response from SNCB in this respect. Mr Minister, I come to my question about the mobility budget. I had already put a question on this on 10 October following the recommendations of the Dieselgate Committee. In the meantime, last week, we read that the government wants to draw up a proposal to achieve the mobility budget effectively. There are, of course, questions as to whether the aim is to achieve a modal shift or whether a cheap wage increase is being sought. Immediately they were warned of hitting a hole in social security. According to the newspaper, one should drive a company car for a minimum of one year before one could make a choice, which is a bit weird in the context of a modal shift. In Switzerland they work with network cards. I believe that this is a EUR 4 000 credit which can be used for all modes of transport such as train, tram and bus. Perhaps this example can also apply here. I come to my questions. What system does the government propose to develop a mobility budget? What measures are being taken to effectively achieve modal shift? Does SNCB know the impact of this? If an effective modal shift is achieved, this will provide additional passengers, especially in rush hour. Are we getting ready for this? What measures will be taken for people without a company car so that they too take the train? What do you think of the Swiss system that works with network cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u131	Mr President, Mr Geerts, in cooperation with the Ministers for Employment, Social Affairs and Finance, we will be developing a framework in the coming months in which workers who have a company car with or without a tank card in their wage package will be given the possibility, provided that the agreement of their employer, that company car, and, where appropriate, the corresponding tank card, is converted into a mobility allowance or an increase in the net wage. It is foreseen that the amount will be subject to the same tax and parafiscal conditions as the conditions applicable to commercial vehicles. The introduction of that measure will indeed be carried out in accordance with the principle of budgetary neutrality, both for the individual employer and the individual employee and for the public authorities. It is therefore appropriate that the measure should initially address only the holders of a company car. However, that measure taken in the context of the preparation of the 2017 budget is only a first step which lays the foundations for a future mobility budget. It is my intention to work together with my colleagues to harmonise and simplify the legal framework for commuting as a whole, so that every worker can choose his mobility mode in a flexible way in the long term within the limits of the mobility budget allocated. Mr Geerts, I share your concern that the capacity of public transport should be strengthened in parallel. This is why SNCB, in close cooperation with Infrabel, is working on an ambitious transport plan, which will strengthen rail supply in, to and around cities in our country from December 2016. In addition, I have started discussions with my colleagues from the Regions with a view to developing several initiatives to facilitate the modal shift. One of the projects on the call table is to develop a first mobility service that will enable travellers to choose the most efficient route for their travel with knowledge. Of course, integrated ticket sales throughout the transport chain are an indispensable tool to promote integrated mobility. SNCB must commit itself to making an active contribution to this. For my part, I will urge my fellow Members from the other levels of competence to also work for the implementation of this tool as an essential element for future mobility in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u132	I thank the Minister for his reply. We've been talking about the mobility budget for a long time. I know, of course, that it is a very complicated issue, otherwise there would have been ready-made proposals earlier in which the aspects of mobility would have a modal shift, in which taxation and RSZ legislation would have to flow in order to have a certain neutrality in the budget for the employer, the employee and the government. We will continue to follow the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u133	Mr Geerts, may I conclude that your question No. 14257 contained in it and therefore lapsed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u134	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u135	Then there is one more question to deal with, question No. 14701.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u136	I would like to turn that question into a written question, but I would like to put question No. 14685 more couples.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u137	Minister, this is the third time I have asked questions about this. I stayed a little hungry after your answers from last time. Actually, that's my fault. The Minister gives a number of answers and the Member must be able to ask better questions in order to obtain the right answers. Last week, you outlined the procedure given by Odgers Berndtson headhunters. Before the recess, you replied to me about the legal provisions on linguistic balance for the appointment of CEOs and presidents of a Management Board. You referred to Articles 162a (5) and 162 (1) of the Law of 21 March 1991. I have looked into this further because, like you, I believe it is important that a CEO be found and that it is even more important that there should be no subsequent proceedings against it. When I read the articles, it effectively stated that there must be a linguistic balance between the CEO of SNCB and the CEO of Infrabel and their respective presidents of the board of directors. I think there's a problem now. If the CEOs are not appointed simultaneously, there is a limitation by respecting those articles. In concrete terms, if the CEO of Infrabel is currently a French-speaking language person and if Article 162 is to be applied effectively, then only a Dutch-language person can be considered. If another decision were taken, the contract would be broken unilaterally. I read in the press that the N-VA says it would rather have a French-language one than a CD&Voper. I do not think that argument is strong enough to stand up in a court of law as a motivation for the appointment or non-appointment of a candidate. In short, I have a number of legal problems with such statements, based on the articles of the 1991 Law. Hence my questions. Firstly, do you follow my reasoning that on the basis of these articles only a Dutch-speaking candidate can be appointed? Secondly, has the headhunters office been asked to effectively rank the candidates in order of selection, or has it just been asked to put a number of candidates forward without a proper ranking? Are you prepared for legal proceedings in case of insufficient justification?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u138	Mr Geerts, based on the number of questions, I understand how much you are concerned about replacing the CEO. Maybe you want to run for office yourself. It was the government's intention and therefore the mandate given to the recruitment office to submit, on the basis of their methodology, which I will not explain again, a list of the best candidates for the position. The list was not intended to rank the candidates. Each person on the list had to have the appropriate profile for the job description. An exclusion of candidates solely on the basis of their language role was not envisaged. I will not answer your last question since the reasons for the choice have not yet been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u139	Minister, it is my concern to find a good CEO so that you, as a minister, can work very quickly on the files that are pending today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic521x.u140	(...)
