ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u1	Colleagues, welcome. At the request of Mr Lalieux, we are starting the interviews under agenda item 3, because Mrs Lalieux herself will have to chair the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u2	Mrs. Onkelinx withdrew her arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u3	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to make this inquiry in the first place. It is true that it dates somewhat because of a busy committee agenda. On 27 March, a peaceful and fraternal march was to take place in Brussels to enable tens of thousands of citizens to express their rejection of fear and hatred, to express their feelings of solidarity and belonging to a community of spirit marked by the recollection and memory of the victims. However, the day before, on the basis of information from the Crisis Centre, you announced, in agreement with the mayor of the City of Brussels, that it was desirable to suspend the organisation of this march. The Brussels police force had to be mobilised on a full-time basis to ensure the protection of citizens who had come to constantly gather before the Stock Exchange and to continue the work of combating terrorism through further searches. Yet, instead of a peaceful demonstration, the streets of Brussels experienced a flood of hatred and Nazi greetings of hooligans! Several hundred "ultras" supporters, dressed in black and camouflaged, mainly from Antwerp and Vilvorde, were able to carry out their "concentration", organised via social networks, before going down by train to the capital. However, it was subject to strict law and order requirements. The peaceful march was then replaced by far-right songs and slogans chanted by hooligans and supported by far-right activists known on the ground, as well as by calls to protest broadcast by different groups of the country's "nationalist nebula", whether it be Nation, AVN or others. While it was known that the Brussels law enforcement agencies were mobilised to protect citizens from a terrorist threat, how could they not be arrested before they reached the capital? What were the reasons why the authorities of the interior and the city of Brussels preferred to postpone the march from 27 March on Saturday afternoon? Were you aware that the police forces needed in Brussels were mobilised to protect citizens who were collecting in front of the Stock Exchange from a terrorist threat, as well as to carry out searches? I guess so. Have you tried to prevent these 400 hooligans from coming to Brussels? Can you prevent this coming upstream, in collaboration with the federal police or with the local police from where these hooligans came from? I do not in any way aim at a Community, a Region or any other. These individuals came from all over the world but met in Vilvorde and Antwerp before taking the train to Brussels. Of course, it is not Flanders or the Flemish people who are targeted here!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u4	Easter 2016 should have been a day of mourning, with a great march against terrorism, fear and hatred, as happened in Paris with a million people after Charlie Hebdo's attacks. Instead of this great march, the Stock Exchange square, where hundreds or even thousands of people are concentrated to gather after the 22 March attacks, was brutally occupied by 400 hooligans who trampled flowers, assaulted citizens who were collecting, chanted slogans against immigrants and made Nazi greetings in front of cameras around the world. The violence of these hooligans has manifested itself against people of foreign origin and local citizens. The site RésistanceS.be asserts, evidence to support, that the extreme right is at the heart of these violent incidents: one of the main activists of the Autonomous Nationalisten Vlaanderen (ANV), a neo-Nazi groupuscule active in Flanders, Jeanke Smets is at the heart of the incidents; one of the hooligans who carried out a violent punch against a person who expressed his disagreement about the presence of hooligans on the Stock Exchange, is a long-time activist of the neo-Nazi groups; the site of the Anti-Fascistisch Front has also demonstrated the presence of an executive of the Vlaams Belang, Martin Gyselinck, active for the Vlaams Belang in Ghent; Nation, a French-speaking far-right party, also declared to have supported the initiative, and others can be cited. The fact that these demonstrators first gathered in Vilvorde is inquisitive. They took the train without being the least worried and, when they arrived at the North Station, they again assaulted foreign traders, stole and broke their shops before arriving on the Stock Exchange. The police officers present watched these scenes without doing anything. Since 25 March, the police have been aware of the action planned by these hooligans. Why did the authorities allow this demonstration to take place? The mayor of Brussels declared that he had not been aware of this essential information. Do you confirm that? The big march planned that same Sunday at the Stock Exchange was cancelled because you, together with the mayor of Brussels, advised the organizers not to keep it for security reasons. However, the events proved a large presence of order services on the spot, certainly sufficient to frame a peaceful march while there was a violent hooligan march in place. If the citizen march was not recommended because of the threat of the violent demonstration of the hooligans, could you explain why you gave the field free to the hooligans you knew were infiltrated by the far right, instead of preventing them from going to the Stock Exchange? Why didn't you secure the citizen march?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u5	I will also reply to Mr Vanden Burre to clarify the situation better. Mrs Lalieux's first question is to be associated with Mr Lalieux's third question. Van Hees and Mr Vanden Burre's. Following a meeting at the Crisis Centre on Saturday 26 March 2016 and given the opinions of the competent departments in the field of threat assessment and prosecution, the mayor and I, as Minister of the Interior, called on the organizers to postpone the march on 27 March. The primary mission of the mobilization of the police force was to secure this highly visited place, because spontaneously identified by the population as a place of recollection, and the continuation of the searches and the usual tasks. It's basically the message that I and the burger broadcast. We met this afternoon, initially at my office with Mr Mayeur, and then at the Crisis Centre. I then asked the mayor if he had an additional request for the next day. To reply to Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Vanden Burre Van Hees, on 25 March, the Brussels and Vilvorde police were aware of the hooligan gathering scheduled for 27 March. On Friday, the Brussels police requested an increase of two to five platoons and two sprinklers. Support was provided as planned. I come to Mrs Lalieux's third question, Mr Vanden Burre's second question and Mr Hedebouw's first question. As part of the commemoration of the attacks of 22 March, the Brussels police had requested the reinforcement and support of two platoons plus one from the cavalry section, dated 27 March from 12.00 p.m. These reinforcements had been granted. The hooligan demonstration was scheduled for 25 March. As I said, the police requested and received reinforcement, with three additional platoons and two sprinklers. At the local level, it is up to the mayor to take appropriate administrative measures concerning public order. Even at Vilvorde station, I had no jurisdiction to stop anyone. It is at the request of the mayor that the federal police can intervene if necessary. I now answer a question from Mr Vanden Burre. On 25 March, as soon as the Vilvorde police were informed, the Asse Coordination and Support Service (SCA) was contacted with a request to send football spotters to Vilvorde on Sunday and to provide sufficient staff to support the risk supporters in Brussels. The exact destination of these supporters in Brussels was not known. The SCA of Asse assured that the local police of Vilvorde-Machelen (VIMA) should only be on site at the Vilvorde station when the supporters would gather there. It was then asked not to let the supporters go to Brussels. On 27 March, another group of supporters met at the Grand Place in Vilvorde. It was a group of about 450 demonstrators. Their state of mind was not worrying. At the Vilvorde railway station there were sufficient staff of the railway police, together with the local police of VIMA. At that time, no request had been made to the local police of VIMA or the SPC to detain the supporters in Vilvorde. A first train with 300 risk supporters left in the afternoon towards Brussels. Shortly thereafter, the Chief of Corps received a request from the VIMA area administrative police who were at the station. She had received a request from the head of the corps of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area to ask the mayor of Vilvorde to detain the supporters in Vilvorde. The mayor Bonte was immediately warned, but since a train with 300 supporters had already left for Brussels, it was not possible to retain the remaining 150 supporters in Vilvorde. This could lead to serious incidents. Before the mayor's decision could be communicated, the remaining 150 supporters were already on the train towards Brussels. It is up to the local police to assess the situation regarding the events in their territory. In the event of a shortage of staff, it may call on the support of the federal police that evaluates the application. In this specific case, the requested support was provided. I have already answered about the way in which this request has been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u6	Minister, thank you for this specific information. It remains troubling that 450 hooligans at risk – they had been identified as such in Vilvorde – were able to get on a train, accompanied by policemen to Brussels. The police and the Crisis Centre had cancelled a peaceful march because the police wanted to focus on the searches and security of those who came to gather. Hooligans are not prohibited from taking the train, while the municipality of Vilvorde has been warned for three days that they will meet. The football spotters had been notified on 25 March, three days before. And nothing is done to prevent them from reaching where the threat is greatest, that is, in the city centre. One can imagine the frustration of those who wanted to walk united against hatred and could not do so. I'm not questioning your decision to cancel this step. But we let them come to the place of the Stock Exchange, people of the far right and the Nazis. The already so degraded picture of Brussels has been more than negative. You must understand the total incomprehension of Belgian citizens. As usual, we let Brussels do it! There was a bad coordination. You granted the police, but the troublemakers should never have arrived in Brussels when we knew they were meeting in Vilvorde. The spotters knew that. We let 300 people at risk get on a train, without keeping the 150 others who went to Brussels partying and making their Nazi salvation. It is irresponsible on the part of the various police forces concerned, it is irresponsible to let them down on Brussels. Responsibilities can be shared. I would remind you that the image of Brussels is the image of the country above all. It has been degraded because of this irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u7	Minister, you say, "It is not our fault, it is the fault of the mayors!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u8	It's not about fault. This country is complex, there are skills at every level. If I begin to usurp the skills of the mayors, I can already imagine the reactions!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u9	You're postponing responsibility to the mayors. It's not my job to defend these mayors, but I think it's a little easy. Some elements of your answer are astonished. You tell us that the aim was not to let the hooligans go to Brussels when they were obviously allowed to go to Brussels. It seems to me that there is also a responsibility of the railway police for which you are responsible if I am not mistaken. I repeat, I still don't understand. Another thing I do not understand, you say that the objective was not to let them go to Brussels. But then, why were additional law enforcement agencies mobilised in Brussels? That seems a little contradictory to me. You add that we did not know where they would go when they were in Brussels. It is a bit laughable not to have guessed where these hooligans were likely to go to Brussels, knowing what was being prepared for the stock exchange. And finally, as you said, you had provided for additional law enforcement forces to oversee a violent march of racist and even neo-Nazi hooligans, while on the other hand, you prohibited or at least advised against a pacifist march for solidarity and against hatred. You didn't recommend or forbid a pacifist march. I see it as a political choice. On the one hand, you have not deployed or planned law enforcement forces to supervise hooligans and, on the other, you have invoked the lack of troops to prevent a peaceful march against hatred. I can only attach this political choice to some of your recent unfortunate statements. In any case, these events are a very bad signal, not only for the image of Belgium, as Mrs Lalieux said, but also for the solidarity of the population against attacks and racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u10	Mr President, Minister, we have recently learned of the case of a 12-year-old girl who was forced to prostitute herself via a children's chat site, based in the Netherlands. This site was full of child pornography profiles. A network of pimps would have forced him to have relationships with several clients. For Child Focus, this case is unfortunately not surprising. Teen pimping is becoming increasingly common and, of course, sites like this one are a favourite place for paedophiles. In addition, the website www.ecops.be of the Federal Police, which was supposed to be the first point of reference for the denunciation of child pornography sites, closed last July due to the excessive influx of reports in all areas, undermining its effectiveness. Since then, several options have been advised to victims, including referral to a Child Focus site, but things are not very clear. Minister, how have the situation and procedures evolved since the closure of this site? What steps should be taken to denounce the presence of pornography on a conversation site? Can this lead to the blocking of the site? In concrete terms, how do you envisage monitoring these phenomena in case you pursue your goal of deconcentration of the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) in judicial districts? Finally, is there any specific collaboration between Child Focus and the FCCU on supporting victims of such crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u11	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the closure of the website www.ecops.be has no impact on the activities of the reference point for the denunciation of child pornography sites. If the person visiting him/her wishes general information on child pornography, he/she is referred to the Child Focus website. On the other hand, if the person wishes to communicate an address or suspicious images, they can still do so via www.ecops.be by clicking on the link and filling in the form. The information is then transmitted directly to the Child Abuse Section of the DJSOC, which conducts the necessary checks and investigations, without any intermediary. Where appropriate, a report shall be drawn up with a view to identifying the victim and/or suspect. The police will also remove or block images by decision of a magistrate. In answer to your second question, I must tell you that the processing of this type of data, i.e. child pornography, does not belong to the FCCU but falls under a particular section of the DJSOC. It is not because the crimes are committed via the Internet, for example, that this is the responsibility of the FCCU. Instead, the FCCU deals with computer attacks against businesses. The FCCU does not deal with the content of the sites but with cyberattacks. With regard to your third question, the FCCU is not competent in this matter. On the other hand, the other police services always assist victims in such situations. With regard to the expertise within a police zone or a federal police department, I would like to remind you of the content of circular GPI 58 on police assistance to victims. It states that the Chief of Staff or the Directorate shall encourage the attitudes of all staff through awareness-raising, in-house training and the dissemination of the required information. It organizes a specialized assistance system within its body and also appoints a person responsible for supporting the policy of assistance to victims in a broad sense. It will thus ensure that this expertise acquired within its unit is not lost during mobility or pensioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stress the absolute need to maximise action in this area. In Europe today, between 10 and 20 per cent of children are victims of sexual assault. This phenomenon is constantly increasing, especially with the virtual exploitation of this type of crime. It is indeed easier, thanks to the Internet, to solicit children online for sexual purposes or to produce material of a pedopornograhic nature. More and more young people are victims of increasingly violent images.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u13	Mr Blanchart, we must not forget the role of Interpol in this area. Interpol has a specialized division and they're doing a really good job. Their analysts have a much broader approach than a country-by-country approach. The collaboration between our services and Interpol works very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u14	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u15	Mr President, I am asking this question in response to media reports from mid-March, i.e. a month and a half ago, in connection with a letter sent by SNCB top man Jo Cornu to you and your colleague, the Minister for Mobility. In it, SNCB's top man would propose to equip the agents of Securail who operate in the train stations with a weapon. The reason for this question is the conclusion of an analysis following the foiled attack in a Thalys and the attacks in Paris, namely that the current safety measures in SNCB are not sufficient. With this proposal, the SNCB CEO intends to extend the tasks of the agents of Securail. In his view, identity checks and the search with explosives dogs should be possible in the future. He also asks for 2 500 additional cameras in the stations and an adaptation of the law so that all workers with access to the railway infrastructure can be screened. Following these messages, a response came from the VSOA police union that claims not to be in favour of armed Securail personnel. The union did have an alternative proposal, namely the integration of those security officers within the federal police, in particular the railway police. For example, there would be more staff available there and cooperation would improve. I have questions for you, Minister. What is your response to the various proposals? What is your position on the proposal of the VSOA police union to integrate Securail's agents into the railway police? In general, what measures do you consider within your powers, of course, to improve the security of train stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u16	Last week I sat with the new Minister for Mobility, including on this subject. Of course, he's new in the business, but I've asked him to think about integrating Securail into the police force. There are two reasons for this. We are working on the special management within the police who will receive security orders, the Security and Security Directorate. In addition, there are a lot of police staff present at the stations today, especially in international stations, and there are also the people of Securail. That, I believe, is a little too much of a good thing. If everyone has only a part of the power, one gets a real fragmentation. My view is that we need to integrate these things. I asked my new colleague to think about it and then to discuss it further. Mr Cornu's letter went beyond Securail's position. We are now investigating how we can proceed. It is my belief that we can provide more security with both human resources, both the police and the police, and with technology in the stations. The previous Minister for Mobility had drawn up a number of ideas on this subject. I asked Mr Bellot to take it back and see how we can work together to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on the state of play. For researching the slope to integrate Securail you will certainly find a supporter in us. Above all, we want clarity in the landscape. Securail is a service that falls between the police and other services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u18	I'll follow up on the subject further. Mr Galant's successor has indeed yet to work, but this is an important issue in which decisions have to be taken in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u19	Mr President, on Tuesday, 15 March 2016, maintenance operations were carried out on the emergency diesel engine 1 of Reactor 1 of the Tihange nuclear power plant. In this situation, the rules require that the second emergency diesel engine and the replacement diesel engine be available. But, an incredible phenomenon, a maintenance agent got the wrong engine when disassemblying a valve on the diesel engine cooling pipe. He intervened on the valve of the engine 2 circuit and not on the valve of engine 1, making the engine 2 unavailable. How can such a gross mistake and such a flagrant lack of attention be explained? What's more, Electrabel only identified this anomaly two days later, when a leak of water occurred through the valve opened by mistake. How is it that such an error is not immediately detected? Does the maintenance officer always act alone or as a team? Fortunately, this event had no impact on the health of workers or the population, nor on the environment. However, it appears that similar intervention errors have already occurred in the past. Can you give me the exact number of similar incidents in recent years? Were the instructions clear enough? The repetition of this type of event is all the more aggravating since the Tihange plant had been the subject of a finding of shortcomings in the "safety culture" some months ago, a form of "self-sufficiency" which had led AFCN to transmit a pro justitia to the Huy Public Prosecutor's Office and to put in place an action plan. Clearly, what was meant to be "a strong signal" sent to Electrabel did not bear fruit. How does the PSAN analyze this incident and the return of some nonchalance to recent liabilities? Will the Agency continue to trust without reacting more strongly? How many more incidents will have to be noted before other measures are taken, including serious fines? What about the complaint filed? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, since my colleague has already explained the facts, I will come directly to my questions. We can only be questioned by the upgrade of this incident by AFCN because of the repetitive nature of this type of event in Tihange. Given the call to the order of the operator by the AFCN regarding the safety of the Tihange site, could you convey to me your feeling about this upgrade? Could you take stock of the implementation of the action plan in Tihange following the events that took place in August 2015? I would like to refer here to the minutes of the AFCN. How is it possible that this type of error will continue to reproduce in this nuclear power plant? In addition, it was requested that Tihange be audited. What are the conclusions of this audit carried out and finalised in January, particularly with regard to the entire safety culture?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in nuclear power plants, maintenance agents can act alone or as a team, depending on the work to be done. In this incident, a technician working alone mistakenly opened the emergency diesel valve No. 2 instead of diesel No. 1. Opening of the valve was requested during the ongoing maintenance work on Engine 1. It would appear that this is a human error, the instructions being written on the worksheet and the pipes correctly referenced in the premises. If it is true that this deviation was not detected immediately, it should be noted that emergency diesels remain stationary in the event of normal reactor operation. Their start-up becomes effective only in the event of a reactor incident or during periodic tests. A valve that remains open therefore has no visible effect outside of these circumstances. During the maintenance of these diesels, the valves on the cooling pipe are opened during the maintenance work. The engine valve 2 remained open until the engine was required for periodic testing. If the periodic test of engine 2 had not taken place at the same time as the maintenance of engine 1, this valve would have been detected abnormally at the end of the maintenance of engine 1 and before it was again considered available. In such operations, a third diesel is connected to the unit in order to ensure the availability of the emergency power supply at a certain redundancy. As you said, a similar event has already occurred at the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant in the past. For this reason, AFCN has decided to raise the INES level from level 0 corresponding to the absence of an impact on safety to level 1 corresponding to an anomaly in terms of safety. Indeed, following a repetition of events in the course of 2015, the AFCN took coercive measures. The authorisation has been withdrawn from some operators. An action plan to improve the safety and safety of the Tihange nuclear power plant was required and a pro justitia was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Since this initiative was taken by AFCN, a very large number of actions, some aimed at short-term improvements, others in the longer term have been undertaken by the Tihange nuclear power plant and Electrabel in general. Since these actions were undertaken, AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V have seen, despite this event, a significant improvement in the level of safety and safety culture at the Tihange site. They were able to see that a real awareness had taken place among all the staff of the Tihange nuclear power plant and its subcontractors. Efforts will have to be continued to improve the level of safety and safety culture at the Tihange nuclear power plant, in particular in order to minimize the likelihood of occurrence of an event or incident. With regard to the follow-up to the complaint filed, the King's Prosecutor has initiated a judicial investigation which is ongoing with the collaboration of AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u22	Minister, I feel like we've left for a long afternoon of questions about the incidents. As you know, on the agenda, I have other questions myself. So I'm not necessarily going to be long in this line. Do you worry about this multiplication of incidents at some point? Each time - and this is legitimate - you have precise explanations about the facts etc. That is what you are asked to do, but I assume that, overall, the sum of the incidents and their repetition are calling on you. You yourself are telling us here that such a problem has already been encountered once in the past. We're doing pro justitia, we're making remarks. We change the rules every time. But at some point, you, as a minister, have to think that it's no longer okay. We'll come back because I have other questions. A final element in connection with the AFCN. The incident took place on March 15 and the Agency published the first information on its site on March 30.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u23	Again, I am being called into question by this 15-day deadline for communication. This is a failure in terms of transparency and respect for citizens' information. The Agency is not Electrobel's communications agency. It is she who must inform and reassure the citizens. We had already talked about the deadlines for communicating information. This is an additional case, but the afternoon will be long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u24	Mr Minister, thank you for this answer which, in the light of the situation, appeals to me. It's a repetitive element. We had already asked you in the context of the safety culture in this plant and in the plants in general. My question also concerned the audit, which was to be concluded in January. Are there any conclusions and can we have them? Are there any plans for action on the subject? If you do not have the information today, I will allow myself to return to you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u25	Mr de Lamotte, as I have said on several occasions, the discussion on the results of the audit is a matter for the nuclear safety sub-committee, in order to avoid duplication of work. I am prepared to do so, but I believe that the results of the audit and the action plan should be discussed in the subcommittee. I have already asked the chairman of this committee, but also the chairman of the subcommittee, to take this into account. The questions can of course be asked but must be directed in the right committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u26	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u27	Mr President, I apologize, but the honourable Member often has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u28	Yes, it is. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u29	Mr Minister, in order to be clear, is the audit you are talking about the follow-up to the measures that have been initiated, not the communication one? Yes. We will therefore take up the matter in the sub-committee. As for the types of communication, we will discuss it later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u30	Mr Minister, I would ask to put the item on the agenda of the nuclear safety sub-committee, since it requires a longer debate. I hope that the conclusions of this audit can be communicated to us as soon as possible. I'm asking for it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top (10449) was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u32	Mr President, we are currently talking about work done twice. I cannot go to the European Chamber right now, but I still have the right to ask the Minister directly in the Committee on the Interior. This leads to double work. Mr Minister, the dramatic attacks in Brussels seem to reveal a number of serious malfunctions. Here are some questions that arise in the light of the facts revealed: According to De Tijd of 26 March, the investigators of Committees P and I warn, in a new report, that the Central Terrorism Service of the Federal Police does not manage to deal with the influx of information. This service can no longer filter information from all police services, although it is its task. The consequence is that the OCAM would be "submerged" information from the police services. The Terrorism Service would send all the information to the OCAM "as it receives it, without having been able to verify them or have been able to assess their credibility". The OCAM should therefore always request additional information from the security services "in order to be able to verify the credibility of the information". Is that correct? Professor Dennis Broeders (University of Rotterdam) said that "the collection of additional data would not improve the fight against terrorism. It's information from human sources we need. Data analysis never prevented an attack." All experts are unanimous: focus on the suspects and not on everyone. It is crucial to focus our efforts on recruitment levels, on those who organize propaganda and on their channels of communication. This is also called for by the families of radicalised young people themselves. Do the services work in a targeted manner with the target public in the fight against terrorism, instead of continuing with widespread surveillance of the population? I have already called a few times on the PNR lists and other global data banks. The reports of Committees P and I would mention, according to the press, that it has been a long time since everything worked optimally at DJSOC/Terro, which nevertheless plays a key role between the various other police services in the field of terrorism. Is that correct? If so, what steps have been taken to avoid such dysfunction? Is it true that the DJSOC/Terro database was defective for a year, until last summer? This, since early 2015, after the team leader and other team members left the service. How can we explain this after the attacks of January 2015 in Paris?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u33	Mr Hedebouw, you base your first, third and fourth questions on interim reports in the press. Thus, in the investigation conducted by Committee P, the services in charge have not yet had a right of reply. That is why I want to be able to comment on this case with the final report of Committee P, when, in other words, the defence will be prepared in the same way as the prosecution. This seems quite normal to me in a rule of law. In the end, therefore, I am quite prepared to come back to this issue, but after hearing from the police and state security services. On your second question, the collection of information needs to be strengthened in all areas. We need more human resources to invest in. It is essential that we monitor society closely and that we can detect radicalisation in time, so that we can counter this phenomenon by taking appropriate measures. One of the rules proposed and implemented last year by my colleague Geens and myself was the updating of the Radicalisation Plan, through which we fully rely on the strengthening of the work carried out on the ground by the local working groups, as well as on better management of the information of the common data banks. An important role is given to the OCAM which, on the basis of this information, carries out the threat analysis. Our initiatives in the management of technical data, such as the NRP or the ANPR, are an undeniable and essential complement in this area. Analysis of this data will allow the services to better allocate the limited staff in terms of the specialized staff available to us. These services must be able to operate in a targeted manner, and that is why we need to provide them with every means to do so. In this case, this is in no way a general observation of the population as mentioned in the question, but rather an example of sound domestic management. In this connection, I can tell you that the €400 million planned will be used, among other things, to recruit staff to strengthen our intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u34	Minister, I'm a little surprised when you talk about committee reports P and I, in terms of indictment. The word is strong. However, these are independent services and a form of counter-power. The questions are very specific. We've been waiting for weeks. That would be my supplementary question: do we have any idea of the final report? These are specific questions that have been asked. Public opinion has a lot of questions about whether we're going to get the answer in 4 or 5 months or whether it's going to go faster to be able to debate what didn't work. The point of the debate is not to find a lampist or someone who would have been wrong somewhere but to identify the structural reasons that led to a problem. Too much data cannot be processed. In all the data we obtained at the moment, we knew that. We got contacts, an audition. We asked for measures that we could not take because we did not have the staff to filter the information. This is an important question in the analysis of dysfunction: to want to fish far too wide in information, starting by taking measures that are linear in relation to the whole population, such as with regard to the PNR, mineralogic plate, telephone listening, etc., we come to services that no longer know what to do. There is a substantive debate to be held, which is urgent to question and resolve in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u35	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to 25 February, and I will try to update it a little, but it will not be easy. In February, for the first time, you gave precise figures about the number of Syrian fighters per Belgian municipality and the number of Syrian fighters returning to Belgium. Of the 451 Belgian Syrian fighters, 117 returned to our country, 59 of them to the Brussels-Capital Region. However, on Monday 22 February, the council member of the Labour Party, Dirk De Block, had to decide at the city council in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, a municipality of which 47 inhabitants have left for Syria, that the city government has not received a mandate from the federal government to deal with the returned Syrian fighters. This missed opportunity raises questions about the approach of the returned Syrian fighters, which the government puts first. It is in the interests of the security of all citizens that those returning from Syria should be properly supervised and, if necessary, prosecuted. A clear overview and appropriate policies are crucial to this. In Germany and Denmark, deradicalisation programmes prove their worth; municipal authorities are best placed to follow such programmes. Minister, how many of the 117 returned Syrian fighters were appointed an investigating judge and opened an investigation? How many of the 117 returned Syrian fighters are in custody, in freedom under conditions or in freedom? Has the federal government already given impetus to the judges to impose a deradicalisation process on all convicted or released Syrian fighters? How many of the 117 currently follow a deradicalisation process? Do the municipalities have the right or the mandate to contact returned Syrian fighters in order to offer them such a voluntary guidance path? What additional resources will be made available for prevention services and for helping families of deradicalised young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u36	Mr Hedebouw, I think we have a problem, you are talking about a question of 25 February, but the question that is on the agenda dates from 1 April and the questions you are asking seem to me to be mainly questions for the Justice Commission. I think you're asking the wrong question on the wrong committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u37	Mr President, we were referred to the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u38	You did indeed have two questions, one to Mr Reynders, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u39	I shall therefore ask my question No 10456, Mr President. But should the other question be asked here too?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u40	Questions Nos 10456 and 10457 are attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u41	According to the figures to our knowledge, more than 450 Belgians have left for Syria. These people are a real danger to the Syrian population and, in the event of their return, to the citizens of Belgium, as sadly illustrated by the events of recent months. It has become quite clear from the El Bakraoui case that the government seriously underestimates the issue of the jihadists returning from Syria. Minister, what are the duties of the liaison officer in relation to these fighters? What are the other duties of this same officer? What additional resources have been made available to the liaison officer? Is it realistic and possible that only one person can take on all these tasks? Don't we need an additional agent in Turkey to specifically monitor this return of jihadist fighters to Belgium? Who assumes the duties of the officer if he is absent or on vacation? Does the agreement with Turkey state that the liaison officer can interview potential fighters in Syria who have been arrested? In general, what is the priority of the Federal Judicial Police over these combatants? Are there any instructions from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office to the Federal Judicial Police for such cases? Are the information provided by Turkey concerning arrested combatants processed by the judicial police? Are these names given to the competent OCAM department for the list of known persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u42	Mr Hedebouw, I fully understand that you are asking your questions in our committee, but this is already a preview for the committee of inquiry. With respect to your questions about the role of the liaison officer, here are some clarifications. The role of liaison officers, whether in Turkey or elsewhere, is detailed in the Joint Ministerial Circular to the Ministers of the Interior, Justice and Foreign Affairs of 27 March 2014 on Belgian Integrated Police Liaison Officers abroad. All matters relating to the exchange of police information are governed by the joint MFO3 directive of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior on the management of the information of the judicial police and the administrative police (book 1 sheet C21), in the meantime supplemented by the provisions of the law of 18 March 2014 on the management of police information and the law of 15 May 2014 on mutual legal assistance. In summary, the liaison officer assumes an operational role, also in relation to the issue of foreign combatants, in facilitating the work of the operational services and its countries of accreditation. It is one of the channels for international information exchange. With regard to urgent, confidential and complex matters or in the event of failure of other channels, the liaison officer shall promote international judicial cooperation (execution of requests for mutual legal assistance) and may intervene as an adviser to the head of the diplomatic or consular post. Within this framework, the Federal Police shall endeavour to facilitate as much as possible the performance of its functions while taking into account the technical possibilities and available budgetary means. In accordance with the regulations, the federal police is required to evaluate the network periodically and at least every five years, in order to adapt it to changing operational police and judicial needs. Depending on the workload and budget availability, the federal police may decide to deploy additional staff. As far as leave is concerned, the liaison officer enjoys the status of PJPOL, like all members of the integrated police force. In accordance with the regulations on liaison officers, it is subject to the rules of the diplomatic mission or consular post. In practical terms, liaison officers generally contribute, and to the extent possible, to the monitoring of their files during their leave of absence, as only one liaison officer is in the position. They also settle attendances with his administrative assistant. With regard to the exchange of information, the liaison officer represents only one of the different channels provided for in Note CGI 2011/4253 of 27 November 2011 on the channel choice model. For Turkey, the alternatives are the central office of Interpol in Ankara, the procedure via the liaison officer of the Netherlands which, within the framework of the implementing agreement on the common use of liaison officers, may intervene for Belgium, or directly by the diplomat-post. This is how we operate in countries where there are no liaison officers. We currently have 11 liaison officers with about 50 accreditations. In addition, the liaison officers belong to CGI management, which also includes the Single Point of Operational Contact, which has a 24-hour, 7-day duty station. This set of possibilities must therefore also be taken into account in determining the capacity to deploy abroad. Finally, and still as regards the role of liaison officers, in accordance with national and international regulations (public international law, the principle of sovereignty and territoriality, articles 9 § 2 and 28ter § 3 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, article 2 of the Police Function Act, article 9 § 2 of the Mutual Legal Assistance Act, joint ministerial circulars on liaison officers), no member of the integrated police is allowed to carry out investigative duties abroad. The police have not signed any bilateral cooperation treaties with Turkey; only a Memorandum of Understanding. The model convention and bilateral treaties explicitly state that liaison officers are not competent to carry out police measures independently. Under the regulations, they may participate in the performance of investigative duties only in the context of an application for international judicial assistance made by the federal prosecutor, with the consent of the federal police and in accordance with the regulations of the country concerned. As far as the general aspect of your question is concerned, in the light of the judicial inquiry under way, the answers fall within the competence of my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. For your fourth point, information relevant to the threat assessment should be forwarded to the OCAM. This is particularly the case with foreign fighters. It is this body that manages the list of persons suspected of being involved in this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u43	Minister, thank you for the initial response you provided to me. As far as liaison officers are concerned, I am very surprised at the very lax manner in which leave is managed. If I understand correctly, they submit their request and organize themselves with the administrative staff who are on site. If they are not available, they are not automatically replaced. It was then up to the diplomatic missions to assume their role. You may be able to send us a list of eleven countries where we have liaison officers. In any case, for Turkey, where there has visibly been a great problem with the transmission of information, we need to be given a more in-depth answer. This is not an individual fault but rather a structural malfunction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u44	Minister, once it is not customary, the starting point is outside and not in Belgium. On 31 March 2016, EDF informed the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) of the fall in the handling of a steam generator in the reactor 2 building of the French nuclear power plant in Paluel. In the course of maintenance, the steam generator, 22 metres high and weighing 465 tons, tilted from its full height to immobilize on the ground, partly on the concrete of the reactor building, and partly on the protection trays of the reactor building pool, some of which were damaged. The handling stud also fell. Can you tell us more about this incident, its causes, its consequences, but also about the risk that it may occur in our Belgian power plants? Do we use the same techniques to replace steam generators? On the other hand, it appears that the unions had expressed doubts as to the ability of the company in charge of mounting lifting structures to achieve the quality required for a nuclear company. Have you had confirmation of this element, which would once again be the basis of the problem of subcontracting in the sector, including, of course, at home? Finally, some argue that the origin of the accident would be more complicated than has been said so far, and that the replacement generator could not have been removed and that it was necessary to cut it in half, which could be a generic difficulty for all reactors, including those located on our territory. Can you also inform us about this dimension? What interests me in this accident is the possible actions to consider or to prepare to avoid this at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u45	Mr Nollet, given the recent nature of this incident at a foreign nuclear power plant, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) does not yet have detailed information on the techniques used or on the causes and consequences of the incident. I asked AFCN to look for this information. As soon as I have them, I will gladly share them with you. The initial steam generators have already been replaced between 1993 and 2009 in all Belgian nuclear power plants without posing any problem. A second replacement of the steam generators is currently not planned by the end of the period of operation of our nuclear reactors in 2025, unless information on the incidents in France indicates that we should replace them. Of course, we must first learn more about the incidents in France. If the steam generators have to be released at some point, for example when the nuclear reactors are dismantled, we will not fail to take into account the lessons learned from the French incident, about which we will certainly know more by then. As soon as I have the information, you will have the opportunity to ask me an oral question. I intend to provide you with all the information as soon as it is communicated to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to have a delay, so that I do not ask a new question too soon. When do you think you have this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u47	I'll let you know as soon as we know. You will then be able to introduce this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u48	So far, the fall of a generator was considered an impossible scenario, but this has happened. This is the case with many incidents that are considered unimaginable in nuclear power. And suddenly, it's the embezzlement! Here, in this case, fortunately, the reactors were shut down. But we will see more clearly when we can analyse in depth the causes and consequences and find out if there are any lessons to be learned for our plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u49	Minister, you recently visited Washington for the World Summit on the Threat of Terrorist Nuclear Weapons. As Barack Obama recalled in his introductory speech, "Al-Qaeda had long sought to seize nuclear materials and individuals involved in the attacks in Paris and Brussels had videotaped an official in charge of nuclear infrastructure." On the eve of the summit, 35 Nobel Prize-winning scientists called for the abandonment of the use of highly enriched uranium and the transition to the use of low-enriched uranium, which cannot be used directly in the manufacture of weapons. Belgium is one of the few countries still using highly enriched uranium, both in Mol and Fleurus. According to Laka, Belgium announced at the end of February that it would import 142 kg of highly enriched uranium from the United States. Do you confirm this information? How many kilos of highly enriched uranium are still on the Mol site? Same question for the Fleurus site? And above all, how are you going to follow up on this Nobel Prize call? According to what timetable are we going to reconvert our industries concerned and move towards an exclusively low-enriched uranium use?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u50	Minister, my question is very similar to that of my dear colleague. I would like to refer to a message from the US authorities dated 31 March, according to which the United States will now convert the nuclear fuel for naval ships and submarines from highly enriched uranium to low-enriched uranium. The Nuclear Research Centre is not an insignificant player in this respect and describes itself as a pioneer in research into the conversion of highly enriched uranium to low-enriched uranium. That study centre made a statement on this, which is reflected in the written version of my question. As Mr Nollet has just said, it was also a topic at the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, on which you were present. But the SCK's BR2 research reactor is still running on highly enriched uranium. According to information from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, this transition to low-enriched uranium would be studied. In the written presentation of my question, this is supported by an extensive quote. My questions to you are more or less obvious. What timing has now been set to convert the BR2 so that it can function on the basis of low-enriched uranium? What's the status? When will the actual implementation take place? The SCK itself advises to switch as much as possible. How can the maximum content be understood here? What measures did you yourself propose in Washington to increase nuclear safety here and elsewhere? Was the switch from the BR2 to low-enriched uranium part of these proposals? I can imagine that this also concerns people elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u51	Highly enriched uranium is indeed a substance that must be handled with caution and whose use is subject to stringent safety and security requirements, which implies that no precise information can be disclosed about any storage sites of this uranium, its transport, quantities, etc. Belgium intends to transit in the long term towards the use of exclusively low enriched uranium. To this end, the necessary research programmes are carried out within the institutions concerned. Depending on the results of this research, we will then be able to set a realistic deadline for this transition. An immediate cessation of the use of highly enriched uranium at IRE or SCK-CEN is not an option as it would compromise the supply of medical isotopes. You should be aware that IRE and SCK-CEN account for about 25% of the total global production of medical isotopes and that a sudden cessation of IRE and SCK-CEN activities would be a problem for a large number of patients. The switch from high-enriched uranium to low-enriched uranium is indeed part of the many measures taken by Belgium to promote nuclear security and reduce the terrorist risk in that sector. The measures include the stricter regulations that we have introduced in recent years, the ratification of the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, and the accompanying amendment, as well as our participation in numerous working groups and initiatives. All this has led to a major improvement in the security infrastructure of the nuclear sites. Also important are the additional measures we have recently taken to improve our response capacity with a permanent armed presence at the nuclear sites. I gave all those elements to you in Washington.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for this confirmation of commitment to move from highly enriched uranium to low enriched uranium. You say that studies are under way, but it doesn't give a lot of prospects. On what scale will this transition take place? A few months, a few years, a few decades? We are in a state of confusion with regard to the period envisaged. I know that there is sometimes a gap between what is envisaged and what is achieved, but could you please tell us a little bit about the delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You yourself have already indicated that it is a sensitive matter. No information shall be provided on where it is stored or how it is transported. That is immediately an argument to formulate a concrete timing for that transition to low enriched uranium. I can endorse many of your words, but I regret that there is no concrete timing. The SCK indicates that it is an important step that we must take. I therefore believe that there is a calendar here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u54	Matter is also close to my heart. I'd like to give you a calendar of the tests if you like. It is based on those tests that a transition period can then be determined. It is very difficult to talk about the period now. I'd like to give you some information on the planning of the tests. The tests are necessary to determine the transition period. I take it you think that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u55	I think that's a reasonable position. It immediately offers a more concrete perspective on a step forward than your original answer. I agree with you that immediate cessation cannot be the intention. Thank you for your answer, which I believe is a step in the right direction. I look forward to planning the tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u56	When you were in the United States, I guess those questions were asked you too, and you formulated the same answers to the deadlines. Indeed, the pressure is strong; the 35 Nobel laureates are not just Nobel Peace laureates, they are Nobel Science laureates who opt for this transition. We will therefore carefully analyse the information you provide to us. Your employee has our email address and is used to sending us the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen's 10478 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u58	Mr Minister, France recently organised a nuclear civil security exercise in Cherbourg. Its purpose was to involve the civilian population in analysing their reactions. All residents residing within a radius of 2 km, or 25,000 inhabitants, were affected. In particular, it was pointed out that while the 9,000 students involved in the exercise remained confined, as planned, in their classrooms, there was a serious problem with the few delays. They stayed outside, without any possibility of sheltering themselves. A situation which the crisis management plan did not foresee for the moment: a famous lesson of utility also of this full-scale exercise. I would therefore like to know when the last full-scale nuclear accident in Doel, on the one hand, and in Tihange, on the other hand, date. How many thousands of citizens were involved in each of these exercises? What are the main lessons learned from citizens' reactions to exercises? Last question: when will the next exercises involving citizens take place in Tihange and Doel? I have the impression that a lot of exercises are being organised that do not involve citizens, but only services. We can see, thanks to the French example, the usefulness of the concrete involvement of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u59	Mr Nollet, the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for Belgian territory states in Chapter 10.4 that a large-scale global exercise is organised every three years. The latest large-scale exercises that have been organised are:- for the Doel nuclear power plant on 19 and 20 October 2009; - Tihange, 20 and 21 November 2012; - for the Nuclear Energy Study Centre and Belgoprocess, Mol and Dessel, 29 and 30 October 2015. The practical arrangements for the overall exercise shall be defined by the Minister of the Interior or his delegate, in consultation with the relevant actors. In accordance with the methodology for organising such an exercise, the objectives are set by the steering committee, in consultation with the various partners, and formalized in an exercise agreement. Methodologically accompanied exercises are exercises in which crisis management is very realistic from a strategic point of view, in the sense that a scenario involving measures to protect the population and the food chain can be taken on a large scale by involving a large number of people. The effective involvement of the population, as well as the implementation of actions on the ground by the intervention services, are determined elements, for each exercise, inter alia, on the basis of the capacity available to test these aspects. With regard to the Cherbourg exercise, it can be said in the media that a protective measure has been put forward. Nevertheless, although 25,000 citizens were involved, the available information shows that implementation was in fact very limited and that schools were targeted in particular. However, it is difficult to draw conclusions about this exercise. As part of Doel's 2009 exercise, a limited evacuation of 750 students was one of the goals, a little more ambitious than that of sheltering in Cherbourg. This called for such a work of information, preparation, communication and specific measures for a school population to which a large number of trainings have been given, that it is no longer feasible to carry out this evacuation exercise at the same time as the nuclear exercise. The evacuation exercise was then postponed and organized separately in April 2010. The main conclusion is that an evacuation or evacuation exercise cannot be improvised. Consideration should be given to monitoring of evacuees, such as registration, triage and possible decontamination. During the exercise in Tihange in 2012, the population was not really involved in the exercise. On the occasion of the exercise of Mol and Dessel in 2015, a limited number of citizens from different target groups were invited to participate in a workshop at the end of the exercise, in order to discuss the information they would receive in the event of an alert and in the communication of the measures taken. The main conclusions were as follows. Citizens found the exercise very interesting and asked, in the event of an emergency, to have more technical and scientific information in order to be able to understand what was happening. In addition, responding by following the announced measures takes time and sometimes poses practical problems, such as the rotation of staff teams in hospitals. Citizens also ask to be informed of the estimated duration of the measures taken, so that they can organise themselves accordingly. The next exercise at the Tihange power plant will take place on 29 November this year. Preparations for this exercise are under way. This is not a major exercise. However, the possibility of involving a limited number of citizens in assessing their response to certain communications or measures taken is currently under consideration. The next fiscal year at Doel is scheduled for the end of 2017. Preparation for this exercise must begin shortly. No decision on any citizen involvement has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u60	If I followed correctly, the only exercise that really involved citizens – in this case the students – dates back to 2009 and involved about 750 students. The main lesson you learn from this exercise is that you cannot manage the evacuation of 750 students and a nuclear incident exercise at the same time. I dare not imagine what it would do if an incident actually occurred and there was a need to manage the incident and evacuate thousands of students. Around Doel, within a radius of 30 kilometers, reference radius in Fukushima, there are 1,500 000 people. In Fukushima, only 150,000 people were affected. The lessons of this exercise are already sufficiently challenging. Indeed, it shows that similar exercises cannot be carried out because one cannot manage both the exercise of a disaster and the evacuation. I'm going to dig into the answers given because I didn't know the 2009 exercise. Just this is problematic. I can only plead that the exercise in November and the one in 2017 that still needs to be built for Doel really and simultaneously involve a large part of the population concerned and that we should not hide our eyes on the real difficulties represented by the management of a nuclear emergency plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u61	Minister, the TV newspaper on 7 April at 1:00 p.m., on RTL, showed a rather interesting report, relating to the test of sirens carried out quarterly around the Tihange power station. This report highlighted above all the fact that the sound level of the sirens was far too low, including near the power stations. The residents of their home did not hear the sound of these sirens at all, and yet the plant was seen in the back of their garden. That's an issue. When and how will this problem, now identified, be solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u62	Mr Nollet, to answer you, I will provide you with a plan that will hardly fit into an oral question. [[A colleague of the Minister gave a document to Mr. Nollet.]] The sirens worked properly in the area in question. There are areas, although limited, which, due to geographical characteristics, and weather conditions, such as wind orientation mainly, may have minor audibility. My services have been trying to find the place where the report took place. It appears to be precisely located on the limit of the range of several sirens. You see the yellow circles on the plane. One solution, subject to investigation, is to increase the coverage of sirens in these areas. This may be realized, but everything is related to the fact that appropriate installation sites must be found, and that administrative arrangements must be respected, including those related to obtaining a building permit if necessary. Other means of alerting the population include the mobile dissemination of messages by the police, firefighters and the media. But I think the only possibility is the pylons. Gsm pylons will be detected and the location will be defined, which is more modern than sirens in some areas. BE-Alert is in the test and is progressing very well. We can use it in a fairly short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u63	I am quite prepared to admit with you that BE-Alert would be a particularly useful in this kind of situation. I don't think BE-Alert can replace the sirens. It would be complementary to them in my opinion. It is not bad to do a duplication, because some people do not have gsms or are not close to their gsm when the SMS or BE-Alert call is received. Sirens are still important to me. Thank you for the map. I do not know how it can be included in the report - perhaps as an annex document, as has already been done. It is worth seeing the situation. What concerns me is that it took this report on April 7, 2016, when it has been years since these sirens are here and tested every quarter, I think. But this report took place precisely in the place where, on the circle on the map I received, there is obviously a problem. It seems that a small area is not covered by the sound of the sirens. Thank you to the journalists who have drawn attention to this. But I regret that it took this report to make us realize that these sirens are being tested every quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u64	Mr Nollet, I am sorry, but it is not possible to add graphs, plans or tables of figures to the report. But we can distribute them to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u65	I thought it was sometimes attached to the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u66	This may be on the extranet, but not in the oral question report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u67	At his hearing in the French National Assembly on 23 March, Mr.Niel, the new owner of the Institute of Radioprotection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN) said that the calculation of the thickness of the nuclear reactor tank was carried out to operate for a period of forty years. Can you confirm to us that Belgian plants manufactured by the same processes and sometimes within the same plants also have a tank whose thickness has been calculated for a life of forty years? If the IRSN boss says so, I guess it's reliable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u68	It is important to remember that a nuclear power plant tank is dimensioned to withstand all possible nuclear accident scenarios. The life of a tank is in fact limited by its ability to withstand the initiation of a fault in the event of an accident. This life of the tank depends, on the one hand, on the evolution of its mechanical properties during ageing, i.e. on the evolution of the tenacity of the tank under irradiation, and, on the other hand, on the mechanical stresses of the tank in the worst case of accident. Although the thickness of the tank affects the magnitude of the temperature gradient in the thickness and therefore the thermal stress gradient during accidents, the thickness of the tank is only one of the parameters of the calculation and not the most important parameter affecting the life of a tank. In summary, the thickness of the tank is not directly calculated for a given lifetime but to withstand all types of nuclear accidents. In Belgium, therefore, the hypothesis of the design of nuclear power plant vats, which limits the lifetime, is not the thickness but the weakening of the reactor vats under the influence of neutron radiation. As long as this frailty remains in accordance with the regulatory acceptance criteria, the tank is acceptable for operation. This frailty is obviously an essential parameter verified by the safety authority in its assessment of the state of a nuclear power plant, in particular to approve the long-term operation of certain nuclear reactors up to fifty years' service life. In the specific case of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, it was clearly demonstrated in the Long Term Operation file that the ageing of the reactor tank was not a problem for this lifetime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u69	Minister, I agree with you that there are many elements involved in testing the ability of a reactor to deal with potential incidents. I was asking you about a very clear sentence on how many years these reactors were originally designed. The French authority enjoys more independence than the Belgian authority. It also has more character and capacity to oppose politics. The French authority explicitly acknowledges that these reactors were designed to operate for 40 years, which is why it is important to test them. But you never dare to recognize him! In Belgium, we are in denial in relation to this! These reactors were designed to operate for only 40 years. As a follow-up, you do tests, of course, but at least recognize this starting point! But you don't! We know very well why! Because other problems could be seen as direct consequences of this ability or not to extend the activity of the plants. But it is not by denying this fact that you can reassure the population. I am speaking for you, but especially for the Federal Agency, which would do well to draw lessons from the situation in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u70	The Doel 1 nuclear power plant again experienced a technical problem on the night of 6-7 April, causing an immediate shutdown. Could you give me the cause of this incident that took place on the country's oldest nuclear reactor, please explain why this caused an immediate and complete shutdown of the plant? Could you also tell us the lessons learned from this new incident? This is the one for which the governor of Antwerp expressed all his concern. It's been the front page of the Standaard. It is not usual for a governor to be so worried about it. My next question is about the incident that occurred on April 13. The Doel 1 nuclear power plant, the country's oldest nuclear reactor, which had already been shut down in February 2015 after having reached its 40-year life, was disconnected from the network again on Wednesday, 13 April, at about one o'clock in the morning following a technical problem. Could you explain to us the causes of this new incident and the reasons for this unscheduled disconnection? Was the incident located in the nuclear part of the plant again? An initial estimate of the restart indicated that this could take place on April 15th, but it was not. So I also have questions about the ability of engineers to correctly predict the duration of closures following incidents. Can you tell us again when this power plant restarted exactly as a result of the incident? An early restart seems to have been carried out, but the crucial system has again been a problem and the reactor has been shut down for further repairs. As Greenpeace rightly points out, "with two nuclear incidents and a rushed restart in less than a week, the problems of nuclear power plants in Belgium are only getting worse. Meanwhile, Electrabel was cruelly lacking transparency, the government was silent in all languages, and AFCN was deviating from its obligations. The operator of the nuclear power plants, Electrabel, is always quick to insist that the procedures have been followed perfectly and that there is no danger for anyone, but for other information the population is increasingly groping in the dark. The AFCN indicated that there was also a problem with the cooling system pump, but just as quickly gave its green light to a restart." Too fast, obviously... My question is also when and with what content information about this incident was made public by the PSAN. My final question relates to the information that this incident would have been used to increase the power of the plant by 10 megawatts. Do you confirm that? What exactly is this? Is this any test on an old turbine? Will this situation continue until August? What financial gain does this power increase offer to Electrabel? The third question concerns a new incident at Doel 3, on 21 April, at 3.30 p.m. Doel 3 is one of the reactors that is cracked, which resulted in an automatic shutdown. Could you inform us about the causes, the location, whether nuclear or not, and the consequences of this new incident? How long does the reactor have to be shut down? What repairs will be made? What lesson do you learn, on the one hand, from the other reactors of this particular incident and, on the other hand, more generally from the succession of incidents? I would really like to apologize to you, Minister, and to my colleagues: I feel like I'm taking a lot of your time to talk about the incidents in Doel. One solution would be to close the power plants that are out of date. We'll save a lot of time. It will save the services and the administration time, the journalists who have to follow us. But anyway, you can count on me, whenever there's an incident, I'll be there. I'll ask the questions. It is unimaginable that I am obliged to ask such questions until 2025 on these multiple incidents. Anyway, I'm waiting for your firm foot answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u71	Minister, I hope you share our feeling that it has been enough and that this accumulation of incidents leading to the accumulation of parliamentary questions is quite annoying. What would our energy supply look like if we could invest all these hours and days in an energy-secure future? I think a lot better and a lot different. You may not believe it, but I am actually getting pretty tired of the nuclear file and the accumulation of incidents. I believe our country deserves better. I also assume that as Minister of the Interior, you have a lot of other work to do. However, the reality is what it is, that our power stations have cures, work half-time, take unmotivated time credits, and this is tolerated for the time being by this majority and this government. In fact, power stations that fail are about to be extended by ten years. First of all, can you shed some light on the incident with Target 1? Actually, it was two incidents at Objective 1, the oldest nuclear reactor, birth year 1975, when I was -12 years old myself. Secondly, Objective 3, one of the crack reactors. On Thursday you had appointed Mr Van Overtveldt as Minister for Nuclear Safety ad interim. That's not an attack. That's an observation. Mr Van Overtveldt was your deputy last Thursday. I didn't judge any of that value. I also regularly ask questions to Mr Van Overtveldt, so it is not a problem that he had to answer once. Mr Van Overtveldt had just replied or we were informed that Objective 3 was one of the crack reactors that your German colleague was concerned about. It is difficult to think of a stronger picture of nuclear safety malaise in this country. The script looks like it was written by an environmentalist. Also, what's going on there? Can you shed some light on that? Finally, as far as I am concerned, this is the political point of the day, after the incident in Objective 1 there was the concern of Governor Berx. This week, I think this was a bit under the radar, there was the open letter from Governor Berx and Governor Briers in Gazet van Antwerpen. I've checked on Gopress, it doesn't happen often that governors write a free stand. I have included the quote in the written presentation of my question. They are concerned in many respects. That's actually a letter to your address, the Home Secretary. They complain, for example, that nuclear emergency planning has not yet been updated. I would like to conclude my questions with a reference to that open letter. What's your response to that call? Do you often have enough contact with the governors in this matter? The governors call the unexplained sabotage act "the low point of the past few months." In the meantime, has there been any more knowledge of that? What is the state of play for nuclear emergency planning? What will you do with the recommendation of the Scientific Council and the High Health Council? Is there going to be a national spread of iodine tablets, for example? Your party chairman has already made it clear in the Antwerp City Council that this will not be the case. I do not know the real balance of power within your party, but I suspect that the chairman of the party is still talking about it. A strange attitude as mayor of Antwerp, but come on, it's often searched for the mayor attitude of your party chairman. Finally, what international testing is there about the new nuclear emergency plan to be drawn up? That is a lot of questions, but that is not our responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u72	Minister, as we were told to return to normal quickly after the Doel 1 incident, the planned restart date for the reactor was moved to April 22, and then to later. It should be pointed out that even the governor of Antwerp Cathy Berx, is concerned, as has been mentioned, about Doel 1, especially since this is not the first time. Incidents are more frequent and today they take place in the nuclear part. I therefore assumed that the AFCN analysed this very carefully. The Governor also states that he is waiting for the nuclear emergency plan to be updated. Minister, I am extremely surprised that some 15 days after the incident, we still have no written communication from AFCN on this matter. There is nothing on the AFCN website, no press release on this topic to enlighten us. Do you confirm that this is a nuclear incident? If so, why did the PSAN not communicate? At what level is this incident classified on the INES scale? As I said before, for us, any incident, including incidents classified as INES 0, should be the subject of a written communication from the AFCN. Furthermore, since this is the Governor's request, when will the nuclear emergency plan finally be reviewed and amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u73	Mr Minister, my fellow Members were already very clear, but if that is not the case, then I think that the follow-up to the number of incidents in Objective 1, Objective 2 and last week Objective 3 says enough: the start-up of Objective 1, its re-start on 13 April, will stop it again. Not just us as opposition politicians but a lot of people are worried. This has been proven once again by the interventions of people from abroad. The Minister from Germany has a number of questions. Ministers from Luxembourg are beginning to ask questions. Then there are our governor of Antwerp and the governor of East Flanders. I think the situation is very clear. It's an energy from the past. This government does not look to the future, nor does it give any room to invest in the future. It continues to support this old energy. It is unsafe and you doubt it, but you cannot doubt that it is not even safe anymore. Because of the many failures it is difficult to say that this form of energy generation and these power stations are operationally secure. My questions are a little more focused on security, Minister. In what way can you guarantee that any nuclear incident in our nuclear power stations will receive rapid and sufficiently accurate information from the public? The first incident in Doel took place at 00:30 a.m. Communications didn't start until the next afternoon. So a lot of time has passed. In what way can you guarantee that we are adequately informed? In what way is communication going on with neighbouring countries, in which we are very concerned? I forgot about the Netherlands. You have undoubtedly seen the report which showed that the Dutch citizens are very concerned. Can you tell us again about the state of play on the actualisation of the Belgian nuclear emergency plan? I have already asked you a question about this. How are you getting the advice on the actualisation of the Belgian nuclear emergency plans? What opinions are still expected at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u74	An automatic shutdown of the Doel 1 reactor took place on 7 April around midnight thirty. The competent authorities, including AFCN, were immediately notified of this automatic stop. A reactive type check was carried out on the same day by Bel V, AFCN's technical subsidiary, to identify the causes of this incident. The major cause of this incident is a mechanical problem in a charge pump. This pump provides volumetric control of the primary circuit. In other words, it checks the water supply in the reactor cooling system. The pump also ensures that the seals of the primary pumps in the cooling system are injected. As these are important functions, a backup pump is provided to take over and perform this function. In this case, the backup pump worked perfectly. However, the emergency pump uses water with a higher concentration of drill. Drill has the characteristic that it absorbs strong neutrons, which causes the reactor to have the tendency to slow down in power. This trend can easily be offset by the removal of the control rods. However, there has been a second malfunction. One of the control rods failed to pull out and fell completely into the core, giving the reactor the tendency to fall even faster in power. The reactor's safety system is set to respond to such a rapid power drop and, as foreseen, has caused an automatic shutdown of the reactor. Target 1 was restarted on the night of 7 to 8 April after analysis of the malfunctions. On 13 April, Electrabel decided to shut down Doel 1 after finding a loss of steam at the level of a valve's welding cord. This valve is located on the temperature measurement chain of the primary cooling system. The loss flow was below the power plant shutdown limit, but the operator decided not to wait for the scheduled August-September 2016 revision to proceed with the repairs. These have since been carried out. Electrabel took advantage of the shutdown to perform a series of complementary tests on the power control system. It was found that the defective control bar at the origin of the 7 April security stop was still deteriorated. It does not pose a safety problem as this control bar can always fulfil its role in the event of an automatic emergency stoppage. In the operating phase of the unit, however, it may be problematic in the event that the power should be slightly adjusted. The operator will now review the control bar in question in collaboration with the Westinghouse manufacturer, which explains that the Doel 1 restart date has been postponed. AFCN did not actively report on this failure, as it is not directly related to nuclear safety and does not require classification on the INES scale. The AFCN is, of course, ready to provide the necessary explanations to journalists, citizens or other stakeholders. As far as Mr Nollet's question about the 10 megawatt increase in power is concerned, I do not know what it is and what source you are relying on. The AFCN is not aware of any increase in power. On Thursday 21 April, at around 3.30 p.m., the Doel 3 unit automatically stopped during periodic tests on the turbine. It appears from the analyses that during an autoscan, the turbine misinterpreted the tests performed as an anomaly, resulting in automatic shutdown of the turbine and, by corollary, of the reactor. On Thursday evening, a leak was observed on two instrumentation lines linking the main food water circuit to a steam generator. This leak, unrelated to the turbine problem earlier that day, was rapidly isolated. Water leakage was compensated by adjusting the flow of the auxiliary food water system. The defective welds on these instrumentation lines were repaired during the weekend of 23 and 24 April. These incidents in the non-nuclear part have been notified to the safety authority, which closely monitors the situation. Both incidents were provisionally classified at level 0 on the INES scale. Once the corrective actions were brought in, Doel 3 could be connected to the network. Since then, the power plant has been running at full power. As I have just described, the reactor's safety systems have responded well to the technical failures, so that little lessons can be drawn in terms of the safety of the installations. The possibility of automatic shutdown always exists in our nuclear power stations. Since 2005, the Belgian nuclear power plants had an average of 1.3 automatic shut-downs per reactor per year. An automatic shutdown stops the nuclear reaction and thus contributes to safety. There is no connection between the various incidents that have recently occurred in the nuclear power stations. After analysing the incidents mentioned, the FANC does not currently see any need for additional security measures. Objective 2 has been stationary since 9 April for planned revision and will be restarted in early July. Tihange 1 will be shut down manually from Saturday 30 April, also for a planned revision. The restart of Tihange 1 is scheduled for the end of July. During the planned revisions of Objectives 2 and Tihange 1, a number of maintenance and improvement works will be carried out in addition to the recharge of the nuclear fuel, including in the framework of the long term operation of those reactors. The FANC and Bel V follow the planned revisions closely through checks and inspections, with specific attention to the LTO actions. Tihange 2 and 3 and Target 4 operate at full power. Then I would like to answer the questions about the revision of the nuclear and radiological emergency plan. I understand, of course, the concerns of the governors, who have an important role and responsibility in preparing for nuclear emergencies in the nuclear emergency plan. As regards incident reporting by operators, it should be noted that the operators of nuclear installations have a reporting obligation in relation to events or incidents occurring on their site. A distinction shall be made between incidents which may or may not give rise to the activation of the nuclear emergency plan. Events that do not give rise to the activation of the nuclear emergency plan shall be submitted to the FANC and its branch Bel V for verification to evaluate whether the notification is correct and the event is consistent with the reporting category concerned. Those incidents shall also be reported by the operator to the emergency centre 100 and 112, for information purposes or where emergency services are required on the site, and to the competent fire department if it is required to intervene on the site. They are also reported to the mayor, the governor and the crisis center for information, as was effectively done in the incident mentioned. The format of the notifications for information is twofold. On the one hand, there must be no excessive response from public authorities. On the other hand, this allows governments to respond to questions from the media and the public about what has happened, and to confirm that the nuclear emergency plan is not needed. Notifications by operators giving rise to activation of the nuclear emergency plan shall lead to the immediate alerting and mobilisation of crisis centres and structures at federal and local level, with a view to managing the emergency situation, in accordance with the nuclear emergency plan and the additional procedures and contingency plans of the actors concerned. The exchange of information with neighbouring countries shall primarily focus on incidents leading to the activation of emergency plans and shall be carried out in accordance with bilateral cooperation agreements and relevant procedures. The exchange of information on incidents that do not give rise to the activation of emergency plans is not in itself part of the bilateral cooperation agreements, but is currently the subject of bilateral discussions, for example with the Netherlands and Germany. The exchange of information on such incidents should be clearly monitored for the correct interpretations of what has actually occurred. Similar events in foreign power stations may be expected to be reported to Belgium by foreign governments at any time and as appropriate. The crisis centre shall cooperate on a regular basis with the governors on the preparation for nuclear emergencies in general, for various risk scenarios, but also in particular for the preparation for nuclear emergencies. They are involved in the development of improvement projects, in the preparation of the nuclear exercises calendar, in the preparation and follow-up of these exercises and in the consultation with neighbouring countries on bilateral cooperation. As part of the update of the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan, the Governors are part of the Local Authorities Working Group. At present, the crisis centre, in collaboration with the FANC and its branch Bel V, is preparing the draft updated nuclear emergency plan. Consultations on the updated nuclear emergency plan and the proposed changes with the governors and the mayors concerned, as well as with the federal departments and regional authorities, are planned at the end of May, beginning of June. The services concerned agreed to provide me with a first version of the updated nuclear emergency plan by the end of June. This plan takes into account various opinions, such as the advice of the High Health Council on iodine tablets and on the nuclear emergency plan, as well as the advice of the FANC Scientific Council. The thought trail of the national distribution of iodine tablets primarily for children and pregnant women, the main target group, is on the table of my colleague Minister responsible for Health. The updated contingency plan will take effective account of the international context, the recommendations of the International Working Group HERCA-WENRA on zoning, the European Directives 2013 on basic safety standards and the International Association for Impact Assessment (IAIA) guidelines on pre-treatment and response to a nuclear or radiological emergency. Cooperation with international bodies and the principles of cooperation with neighbouring countries will be clearly addressed in the updated plan as well as the concept of host nation support in the context of international assistance that can be invoked in a real emergency situation. The judicial investigation into the events in Objective 4 in August 2014 is, unfortunately, still ongoing. The question of the additional security measures taken following the incident in Objective 4 has already been frequently raised and answered equally frequently. So I can only repeat that the FANC immediately imposed additional security measures in all Belgian nuclear power plants after the sabotage and that these security measures are evaluated and reviewed on a continuous basis. I cannot give concrete examples, as this information is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u75	Mr. Chairman, I am always disturbed when all the questions are grouped together in one answer. I will therefore take the time to analyse it, but cross-cuttingly, I would like to make a comment. We are used to saying "the incident is closed", in other commissions we call "business as usual". Here, with Electrabel and the nuclear power plants, it's "problem as usual". Every week or every 15 days when you have a commission, you have to come back with new problems. Each time, the answer is "it's all right, it's under control, it's managed"; better: we can say that Electrabel has anticipated future problems. Except that the timing of the recovery is always postponed, that sometimes the problems affect the nuclear part and that the Agency rarely informs or after a much too long delay. For the rest, for each response related to each of the accidents, I will take the time to analyse in depth the technical elements given by the minister and set him up for the next incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It may be waiting for another appointment in the same atmosphere, unfortunately. With our nuclear power stations, permanent uncertainty and the accumulation of incidents seem to be the only certainty we have. At some point you say that the FANC sees no reason for additional security measures for Objectives 1 and 2. I'm afraid this isn't exactly a surprise. You're waving away the destructive audit, despite the incidents of last weekend. Your government commissioner has already been able to look into the audit, that's right. The drivers haven't been able to do this yet. In the meantime, we have come to the point where members of the board of directors of the FANC have to contact MEPs in order to be able to look into that audit. That's the nuclear administration under your command. We will certainly come back to that audit. We will not let this go, because the incidents and the way in which they are handled are of great concern to us. I understand that you consider questions from green MEPs to be biased. In the meantime, we have a German minister, a Luxembourg government, Cathy Berx and Jan Briers who express concern about nuclear safety policy. I'm worried about those nuclear power plants. The open letter from Berx and Briers is actually addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u77	You must learn to read. That letter is about the contingency plans. They ask where they are. I just answered this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u78	Why are they writing that letter just now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u79	You should ask them, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u80	Since you are so insistent, I would like to read out the letter from Briers and Berx: "Depth was the still unexplored sabotage in which many thousands of litres of lubricating oil leaked. Hence our repeated appeal to the various parties involved. I suppose you're involved in this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u81	The trial is under way. What can I say about that? For the rest, the reasons for this breakdown have been removed. What can I do in the context of a judicial investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u82	I will continue with my quote: "One, watch that installations and internal procedures are as robust as possible." Two, keep consistently reporting all incidents. Three, don't analyze these incidents as isolated facts, but look at the coherence. Four, process the lessons from incidents in a continuous improvement of your own emergency plan. Five, implement an internationally tested federal intervention and emergency plan as soon as possible. The two governors list several points. Mr Jambon, you have enough political miles on the counter to know that governors don't get in the pen every week. Can you tell me when Jan Briers has written another free stand? I think this was in his previous role. So that's exceptional. That concern is far beyond the dark-green family. Finally, for the iodine tablets, please refer to the Minister of Health. I'll ask her a question right away, because I thought this was part of nuclear emergency planning and of your powers. I'll be knocking on Mr. De Block's door right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u83	Mr Calvo, I assume you do not understand it all from the first time. I said in my reply that we will draw up the nuclear emergency plan, but the position on that element of the nuclear emergency plan must first come from Minister De Block, in order to integrate it into the emergency plan. That is the normal course of action. The drawing up of the nuclear emergency plan is not in the hands of Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u84	I didn't say the nuclear emergency plan was with Mrs. De Block. Fortunately, this is not being pushed forward, because in view of the delay, it is best that we work together as soon as possible and you can conclude this as soon as possible. I understand that Minister De Block is involved in the decision on iodine tablets. I will therefore knock on her door and hope that she will stand up as a real Minister of Health, as I hope you will soon be standing up as a real Minister for Nuclear Safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u85	Minister, this long answer deserves an analysis. Let's get a little deeper. But you have referred to the updating of the nuclear emergency plan but without setting a deadline. So we're in the long run? In the medium term? A number of decisions have to be taken or necessary updates have to be made. Security actors are waiting for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u86	In terms of deadlines, I have replied that by the end of May or 1 June we will have the first texts. Then it should go fast. On the basis of the various opinions which will be communicated to me, we will then make a first finalisation of the plans which will have to be verified by all the departments concerned, and then the report will be finalised on the basis of their comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I think it is clear that we differ on the way in which we have to supply energy in this country. There is no doubt about that. I am also surprised that your reply shows that you are not aware of the public's concerns. Why are the governors pulling the alarm now? Firstly, because, as you yourself say, they are partly responsible for emergency planning. Secondly, because they are getting a lot of questions from troubled citizens. The sequence of incidents does not help in this respect. The way of communicating, both by you and by the FANC, doesn't help either. I do not want to talk about the audit yet, because we have to look at it from the very beginning, but it will not help either. Minister, you, and by extension the government, do not realize how worried the population is. If, moreover, a foreign minister, Mrs Hendricks, the Luxembourg Minister and Government, and people continue to say that there is nothing going on, then that is really getting the head in the sand. I put my hopes in the various reports, the audit that has been done and the report of Elijah. Moreover, we have not yet discussed the latter with regard to our security of supply. Elijah clearly says that we need to invest in alternatives because otherwise we will have a problem in 2023. As a result of all these elements, it will be necessary for you and the government to look at this matter further. Once again, I am very concerned that you are totally ignoring the great concern of the people in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u88	Mr Minister, you are aware of Open Vld's position on the outsourcing of police tasks to the private sector. My question concerns a practical example that was put into practice in the municipality of Herne. In the absence of agents, a private security officer was called in who is now doing a round at night and thus controls about twenty public buildings in the municipality. The mayor took that initiative because the Pajottenland police area is too vast and there is only one patrol driving around at night. A pilot contract was drawn up for three months, costing the municipality about 2,500 euros. However, there are other motives. If the area were to recruit additional police officers, it would not only take a long time, but would also be very expensive and non-flexible. During his rounds, the security guard sees what's happening on the street. Of course, he can't interfere. If he notices anything suspicious along the way, he must inform the police, as any good citizen is supposed to do. In a response, your spokesperson stated that this initiative could be taken, as long as the mayor doesn't break the law. He also referred to the evaluation of the law on private surveillance that will take place shortly in this House. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that with this initiative the municipality of Herne is the first or do you know of similar initiatives? Which motivations do you think play a role? Secondly, what legal barriers do these pilot projects encounter? What changes to the legislation may be necessary? Thirdly, do you see in this pilot project the creation of an integrated security policy with a full role for the private sector? Fourthly, can you tell us any timing for the evaluation of the law on private surveillance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u89	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu, I got the information on the town of Herne, to which you refer, a few weeks ago. My services are currently investigating the legality of this agreement between the surveillance company and the municipality of Herne. Before that investigation is completed, I cannot give my opinion on it. With regard to the use of surveillance agents by the municipality, I can inform you that several cities and municipalities rely on surveillance companies for various purposes, such as freight surveillance, mobile surveillance and the provision of detections, for example in the context of parking fees. A common misconception is indeed that surveillance firms should not carry out any activity on public roads. The main activity covered by this prohibition is the supervision of persons, the fifth activity of the law. Other activities such as protection of persons can indeed be carried out on the public domain. The report on the evaluation of the Private Security Act was made available to the members of the Interior Committee of the Chamber of Representatives in January 2016. I will not fail to explain this in detail when the draft law amending the law on private security is discussed in Parliament. The place of private security in security policy is also discussed. I have said a number of times here that I would like to have an agreement within the government on the revision of this law before the summer and can therefore introduce it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u91	Minister, on 9 December last year you gave an update in this committee on the implementation of the Integrated Security and National Security Plan framework paper. You presented the ten defined priorities of the framework paper and identified four transversal themes. The National Security Council had already delivered a positive opinion. Sheets were drawn up indicating the strategic actions to be carried out by the various actors concerned, in implementation of the framework paper. At the plenary session on 7 January, you said that the framework paper would be presented politically in January. What's the status today? When can we expect approval? When will the Integrated Security and National Security Plan be presented politically? What is the role of the regions in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u92	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in December I informed you that the work on the framework note and the National Security Plan was almost complete, which meant that for the ten safety phenomena and for the five cross-cutting themes, a comprehensive and integrated approach was proposed through different working groups, in line with the methodology of the safety chain. The draft framework paper is a policy document prepared and prepared together with the relevant administrative authorities at federal and sub-state level, as well as with the judicial authorities. The National Security Plan has been prepared by the federal police, in cooperation with the Permanent Commission of Local Police. However, in line with the cooperation agreement of 12 May 2014, the relevant actors in the safety chain should also have their say in the latter plan. Mr Geens and I had hoped to enter the phase before the end of the year in which the necessary opinions had to be collected for these two policy plans. It has always been our intention to validate and propose the Integrated Security Framework Paper and the National Security Plan as two complementary policy documents. That is still the case, but we did not make it to the end of the year. We have been delayed for several reasons. First of all, there was the need for coordination with the Länder and with the judicial authorities, for all security phenomena and transversal issues. In doing so, we have really strived not to pursue the compromise model, but to pursue the consensus. This has been a difficult search for the integrated and integrated, in the interests of the safety chain. This has required a lot of consultation, but we have succeeded. It took a little more time, but the result is there. It was chosen not to go to the compromise and let everyone do their thing, but to go to the integrated approach. In addition, additional time has been taken to coordinate the framework note with the National Security Plan, where the police plan is expected to be seamlessly aligned with the framework note. For the first time in ten years, a police plan for the GPI has been drawn up in line with the framework paper. Work was carried out in the wake of this framework note, and a continuous check with the framework note was therefore needed. Nor do I have to tell you that the most appropriate translation of the policy documents into the two national languages has taken a long time and sometimes even led to new discussions. In addition, formal advice was required for both policy documents such as that of the College of Attorneys General, the Federal Police Council and the Minister of Mobility. Here, too, there was a need for an adjustment and discussion. Last but not least, the events surrounding the terrorist threat have suspended and postponed twice the activities of the group of experts. On April 13th, I hope this will be the last time and it also looks like the members of the group of experts came together. If the documents are given a positive opinion, as has been shown, then the Minister of Justice and I can present them to the Inter-Ministerial Conference with the Länder. Although urgent topicality has taken up much of our time and energy as a result of the threat of terror, we are determined to adopt and propose both policies in the coming weeks. I have become a little more cautious through my experience, but together with my colleague in the Justice Department, I will do everything I can to make it through the months of May and June of this year. I repeat, the role of the regions in this has been essential and prominent. For the framework paper, the texts have been prepared together with them. For the National Security Plan, the police plan, they have been able to give their advice, comments and input. The last framework note dates back to 2004 and was then prepared without any input from the Länder. In a year's time, we have now managed to bring together all the country's policy levels around essential security materials and formulate a coherent, integrated and integrated security approach. I therefore believe that everyone who has participated in it should be thanked. This applies to all departments and governments, and in particular Professor De Ruyver and Professor Fijnaut, who have managed the work. We're almost there. Within the time frame of May-June, we need to be able to finish this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u93	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u94	Mr Vice Prime Minister, a few months ago you were asked by the VVSG Executive Committee and the Committee on Mayors and Security for more possibilities for the mayors to make their decisions more enforceable. On the one hand, there is the GAS legislation that allows cities and municipalities to punish nuisances, on the other hand, it remains difficult to act against certain hard learners offenders. A typical example is a misplaced container. The owner can be fined by the local government. However, in certain cases the container may remain in its normal position. A mayor or city council is powerless to do this. The VVSG has asked you to examine which instruments can contribute to better enforcement, so that action can also be taken against persistent offenders. For example, reference is made to our neighbour The Netherlands, where an administrative penalty payment is used. Mr. Secretary, do you understand the problem being raised? Do you recognise that there is a need for an additional instrument in the matter? Have you ordered your services to launch an investigation? What is the state of play in this respect? Do you see anything in that administrative penalty payment, as it is used in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u95	It goes without saying that, as Minister for the Interior, I have taken note of the comments made by the mayors in connection with the enforceability of their decisions. However, I would like to draw attention to the already existing possibilities for cities and municipalities to respond to various nuisance situations. Not only is there the law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions, which provides for four types of administrative sanctions: the administrative fine, the administrative suspension, the administrative withdrawal and the temporary or final administrative closure. In addition, the mayor may also issue measures. This can be done both by virtue of its general implementing powers, Articles 133 and 135 of the new municipal law, and by virtue of its special implementing powers, for example Article 134ter and c of the new municipal law. Hard-nosed causers of nuisance can therefore be tackled in different ways. A sanctioning official may impose a municipal administrative fine on those who cause nuisance. If the nuisance situation recurs, a new, possibly higher administrative fine may be imposed. Where appropriate, a suspension or withdrawal of a municipal permit may be imposed by the College of Mayors and Ships. If necessary, a mayor may also take measures to put an end to the nuisance situation. As required by Article 52 of the Law of 24 June 2013 on the GAS, my services have prepared a report on the application of the law. To this end, the various actors involved in the application of the GAS regulation were questioned. In this context, the VVSG had referred to the existence of the administrative penalty payment in the Netherlands. The remarks made by the VVSG were also included in the report, which has now been submitted to Parliament, but has not yet been discussed. You will agree with me that there is still a need for an in-depth debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u96	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u97	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the additional appropriations on the 2016 budget for increasing security and combating terrorism. In this context, my own police area of Arro Yeper was also questioned about local initiatives for the use of these additional appropriations in the context of increasing security. This question was transferred through the Local Police Permanent Committee to the police area which gave an answer at the end of last year. The police zone Arro Yeper is the most extensive in Flanders, has no less than 34 border crossings with France and I think you are well known. The zone has registered itself in a provincial initiative to develop a border shield, as well as in a mobile system to ensure the smooth running of calls by mobile teams. In this way, the information will be made available very quickly to the integrated police. In a first phase, three major border crossings are equipped and connected via jet connections. The zone aims to further develop and link this network to neighbouring corps. This network consists of a series of camera sets on fixed poles, the replacement of two mobile ANPR units, and the extension of the teams with mobile data resources to facilitate the control of the databases, on the one hand, and the rapid availability of the ground information to other fellow service providers, on the other. I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, how many areas have since submitted a dossier for the use of additional appropriations in the context of increasing security? In the meantime, have those files been transferred to the administration? Secondly, on what criteria will applications be screened? Thirdly, what is the planned timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u98	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I will deal with your first and second questions together. Indeed, in the framework of the security commission of EUR 400 million through the Local Police Permanent Commission and by some zones themselves, project proposals or requests for additional appropriations were submitted. These proposals were examined by the standing committee. Finally, however, the government decided to grant loans to the federal police, but with objectives and affections that also benefit the zones, under various forms of assistance. This has already been communicated to the standing committee. The example is excellent, but you have little in Ypres, is the Channel Plan, in all its aspects, both administrative and judicial. Again, you have little advantage in Ypres. The development of mobile handling teams for the problem of migrants, including in West Flanders, also benefits the integrated police. We are there providing federal capacity that relieves the local areas. The same applies to the development of a renewed ICT platform for the benefit of the entire integrated police force. Until a while ago, there was iPolice and the question of how the zones should pay for that. As part of the 400 million, we have decided to finance the entire iPolice project and make it available to the local areas. That's a contribution in kind. Finally, appropriations are also earmarked for the development of a close ANPR border shield on all motorways of the country. I would also point out in this camera context that the police area you mention has already received a number of additional credits in connection with the recruitment process, which is being distributed annually. In practical terms, this is cumulative over the last four years, amounting to more than EUR 200 000. We are therefore not making direct money available to the zones, but we are providing capacity and information technology, which can lead directly to savings in the zones. The projects that will be launched in 2016 and fully implemented in the period 2016 to 2019, at least as far as ICT projects are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u99	Minister, I will take the answer to the Westhoek.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u100	My question is based on the framework note on Integral Security, which we have already discussed, and on the transversal issues. Open Vld shares the view that the financial returns of criminals should be better hunted. It is not only by systematically checking and confiscating criminal assets that the chance of taking action must be increased; it is essential to dismantle the structures of organised crime. In doing so, all public services must work together. The following issues are useful: the development of a fully-fledged administrative approach to crime, the establishment of a performance and coherent legal and institutional framework for the exchange of information between the various authorities and international administrative and criminal cooperation. One of these ten priorities concerns an updated integrated and integrated drug policy. We refer, among other things, to the large-scale police operation called Trefpunt in which 111 searches were carried out in the south of the Netherlands and the Belgian border region and 55 people arrested. Party King was the starting point of an investigation by the Dutch Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service. Several Dutch services work together to reduce the production of hemp and synthetic drugs. How do you see the updated comprehensive and integrated drug policy for our country? How do you intend to develop these transversal issues for this drug policy? What concrete actions and legislative changes are needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u101	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as you point out in your question, the government wants to strengthen the approach that will be developed in the priority phenomena by means of transversal efforts that will also ensure better coordination between these specific approaches. I would like to inform you immediately that the final version of the Integrated Security Framework Paper has not yet been discussed and approved in the Federal Government and the Inter-Ministerial Conference with the Länder. The draft framework paper is the result of intense consultation between the competent administrative and judicial authorities as explained earlier. However, I can give you the following elements. The policy which the government intends to pursue is very comprehensive and will also cover other aspects than those which relate specifically to drugs. The problems of alcohol, gambling or gaming can also lead to dangerous addictions. That is why we want to have a global policy for these addictions. I shall then turn to your specific questions. In the field of drugs, the policy remains the result of the joint efforts of various ministerial departments, both at federal, community or regional level. The policy which the government will pursue will continue to aim at combining measures aimed at reducing the application and, on the other hand, at reducing supply, under the coordination of the general drug policy cell. I would like to refer you to my colleague from Health. I would add, however, that it will be important to maintain the support of scientific policy in the formulation of the decisions taken. The government statement is very clear on the question of possession of drugs. This is prohibited and the use of drugs in public space cannot be the subject of a tolerance policy. As far as the reduction of the application is concerned, problem users are referred as far as possible to the provision of drug aid. The incarceration of the user who has not committed any other criminal fact will be considered an ultimum remedium. A criminal law approach should be understood in a gradual and proportionate manner, with detention reserved only for the most serious or repeated facts. As regards the reduction of supply, the focus will be on the production and trade aspects. A balance will have to be achieved between the local and federal police, under the authority of the judicial authorities. The local police will mainly be responsible for the parts relating to the retail trade in drugs, where the federal police will be responsible for the shutters previously linked to organised crime, in particular as regards its international character. The federal police will, of course, continue to carry out its task of supporting local police units. The focus will be on the phenomena that occur on our territory. In addition to the retail trade in each police area, emphasis will be placed on the fight against the production of drugs, cannabis and synthetic drugs, as well as on the fight against cocaine trafficking. The problem of hormone trafficking and the new psychoactive substances cannot be ignored. The transversal aspects of your question will be integrated into the approach to each phenomenon of the framework paper, through the preparation of specific programmes and action plans. Since the framework note and the National Security Plan are still in the design phase and the implementation of the objectives is still ongoing, I cannot at this moment disclose any more details. As examples, I can quote the following elements. The new legislation on new psychoactive substances will still be the subject of implementing measures to become operational. The fight against cyber trafficking will be of particular importance in this area, as these substances are sold in particular via the Internet. As far as the production of cannabis is concerned, a reinforced administrative approach will have to be developed, in consultation, among others, with the numerous partners involved, such as the municipality or the private sector. You will understand that international cooperation will be at the heart of drugs, both through the projects developed within Europol and directly with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u102	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u103	The Minister had announced that he would have time until 5 p.m., so we can leave two more speakers to speak, perhaps three, if the questions and answers can be put very briefly. I myself must leave the sitting now, but Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will replace me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u104	Questions Nos 10558 and 11044 by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Maingain respectively are postponed and disconnected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u105	Monsieur le ministre, lors de la sous-commission de la sécurité nucléaire du 6 janvier 2016, je vous ai interrogé sur la protection des sites nucléaires. Vous m'avez allors répondu dans les termes suivants: "At present, the analyses of the OCAD do not indicate in any way that the nuclear power plants are a possible target for terrorist action at level 3.' Since then, unfortunately, we have found that large nuclear facilities can be targets for terrorists. We must therefore take the necessary measures to protect our people. Minister, what analysis is the MACO now making of the potential threats to large nuclear facilities? Is there optimal consultation and cooperation with local police? How many military personnel are deployed to protect these facilities? What are the rules of engagement for members? Is this mission fully part of the broader Vigilant Guardian framework or is it a specific mission? Finally, how many access badges have been removed in connection with terrorist risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u106	The Islamist terrorist movement is increasingly interested in the so-called CBRN methods (chemical, bacteriological, radiological and nuclear). It has been found that the Islamic State has already used sarin gas in Iraq. With regard to an attack in the nuclear field in Europe, the use of plutonium to build an atomic bomb is unlikely for various reasons (transport, skills). Instead, the use of a dirty bomb with radioactive materials stolen from a hospital can be considered. We do not think they will fly to a nuclear site, because this technology is far too advanced, but since they used dirty bombs in Zaventem and Maelbeek, they can also consider the use of dirty bombs with radioactive materials from hospitals. Following the news, OCAM issued a warning on 8 December 2015, calling for increased vigilance for the premises of hospitals, clinics, private companies containing radioactive materials. With regard to nuclear power plants and other nuclear institutions, we have set a level 3 since 24 March 2016. We have no indication of any concrete plan of terrorist action against a nuclear facility in Belgium. Rather, it is a precautionary level, following the discovery of information during operations carried out as part of the investigation of the 22 March attacks. We do not have a specific indication for nuclear sites, but we remain cautious. Consultation with the local police is carried out directly through the directors of the sites concerned, who have direct contact with the chief of corps of the responsible police zone. The dirco are also involved in this consultation. In this way, all partners (military, local police, federal police and site managers) are involved. A total of 140 military personnel are engaged for the protection of nuclear sites. A specific protocol and specific rules of engagement have been drafted for military engagement in this context. This is a specific mission that is not linked to the deployment of the military in the context of counter-terrorism measures. We had international recommendations before the attacks and the last recommendation concerned the protection of nuclear sites. We are aware of five withdrawals of access badges for reasons of radicalism or radicalization. For more information, I refer to my colleague Minister Reynders, the Minister responsible for the national authority for security clearances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u107	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. The number of 140 military personnel is quite significant for the protection of the two main sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u108	There are four sites: the two nuclear sites, the Mol study centre and the IRE in Fleurus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u109	Question No 10597 by Mr André Frédéric becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u110	Minister, steps are being taken or will be taken by the government to effectively combat terrorism and radicalization. An important budget has been made available. We're hearing more and more about "deradicalization" classes. This term is used to such an extent that I believe it will soon enter the Larousse dictionary. Who will organize these courses? Who's gonna dispense them? Who will write the accreditation file? Will these courses be mandatory? If so, this assumes that your services are already experiencing radicalized Muslims. If one of them refuses to attend these courses, what action will be taken against him or her? If these courses are not mandatory, how are you going to encourage radicalists to take them? In view of the terms of the sharia, are you convinced that these courses really are a solution to the current problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u111	When it comes to training and courses, I would remind you that these are community skills. That is why I often say and repeat that, in order to develop a preventive approach to deradicalization, we must work together. The federal government has no jurisdiction over education. Nevertheless, we must work together for enforcement measures. My goal is to bring together the different levels of power with a role to play in this much needed prevention logic. I will take the initiative to bring together the different levels of power around the table. I hope that after last week's debates, they will be ready to cooperate. I would remind you that your specific questions fall within the competence of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u112	Minister, I sincerely invite you to take this initiative. The structure of the State is such that competences have been fragmented and shared. Training and education have been allocated to the federated entities. Nevertheless, it is true that the security of the state and the citizens rests in the hands of the federal government and, consequently, the Minister of the Interior. He receives the most information in this area. It is possible that the Communities will send you back the ball by saying that it is not in their powers but in those of the Federal Republic. You shouldn't start a ping-pong game! I agree with you, and I hope only one thing, that this cooperation will be even more frank. That is why I invite you to seize the bull by the horns by bringing together all the parties around the table and taking the necessary measures to ensure that the citizens are as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic399x.u113	Questions from point 24 are postponed for lack of time. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Calvo, No 10629 10724 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Foret's 10899 were converted into written questions, as were Mr Demeyer's questions 11043, 11048 and 11049.
