ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u1	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, universal periodic review is a unique process. It reviews the achievements of all United Nations member States in the field of human rights, and provides each State with the opportunity to present the steps it has taken to improve the human rights situation in its territory and to fulfil its human rights obligations. A central mechanism of the Human Rights Council, the universal periodic review is designed to ensure equal treatment for each country. During its twenty-fourth session, Belgium was the subject of recommendations by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in particular on issues related to migrants, refugees and asylum-seekers. Indeed, UNHCR recalled that Belgium had received recommendations during the first round of the universal periodic review in May 2011, including the improvement of certain aspects of the asylum system and the identification of persons with special needs (living conditions, housing, protection against violence for asylum-seekers). The reception situation had improved significantly since 2012. However, measures had been taken to ensure that asylum-seekers submitting multiple asylum applications were excluded from receiving conditions during the examination phase of their asylum application. As regards the systematic use of detention of asylum-seekers at the border and the frequent use of this measure in the context of the application of the Dublin III Regulation, 896 asylum-seekers had been detained in closed centres in 2014. Mr Secretary of State, what follow-up has been given to the implementation of these recommendations? What are you doing today? Madam Chair, I would add that I am tabling a motion of recommendation, which I am not going to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u2	Mr Kir, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. In recent years, Belgian legislation has been amended to remedy the shortcomings found by international and national courts in this area. Thus, for example, an appeal with suspensive effect of removal or refoulement measures has been arranged, or the judge on whom an appeal is lodged in extreme urgency must now carry out a careful and rigorous examination of all the evidence, in particular those indicating a risk of being subjected to human rights violations. Belgian legislation defines vulnerable persons and therefore does not limit them to minors alone. These persons may receive specific support or be referred to a specialised institution where they receive appropriate follow-up and where material assistance is also guaranteed. When applying for asylum, women and girls receive the information brochure Women, girls and asylum in Belgium for women and girls seeking asylum. It not only contains information on the asylum procedure itself but also addresses other more specific topics such as health, gender equality, domestic violence, the problem of female genital mutilation, trafficking in human beings, etc. In order to reach as many women asylum seekers as possible, it has been translated into nine languages. It's not an initiative I've taken. This brochure already existed. I think it's Mr. Courard who made it. Changes have been made to the asylum procedure. There is now a list of safe countries; consideration of new elements invoked in multiple applications has been transferred from the Office of Foreigners to CGRA. In the coming months, further amendments will be made to the new Asylum Directive. That is the asylum procedure directive. I will come before you with this bill as soon as possible. Each of the five recommendations relating to the competencies of the Federal Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers was accepted by the authorities and was therefore taken into consideration by Fedasil. There is no mechanism within the Agency to follow up on the study's recommendations, but actions are constantly being put in place in the reception networks to ensure that beneficiaries receive conditions that are respectful of dignity and adapted to their specific needs. With regard to the recommendations on the provision of a sufficient number of reception facilities meeting safety and security standards and on the improvement of living conditions in reception centres, Fedasil was able, despite a considerable increase in arrivals in the second half of 2015, to offer a place for each asylum-seeker by applying, continuously increasing his capacity in existing facilities and opening up new reception facilities. In addition, the Agency has also set minimum quality standards in order to continuously ensure the quality of reception throughout the host network structures. These standards have been communicated to all partners. They cover various themes: infrastructure, furniture, security aspects, social and legal support, as well as medical and psychological support for residents and material assistance. We have spoken on several occasions about this minimum standard, but I think that Fedasil and our social workers in the centres are doing everything possible to exceed the minimum standards. Secondly, with regard to recommendations on persons with special needs, the Law on the Reception of Asylum Seekers has already provided, since 2007, specific provisions for the identification of the care of vulnerable persons. In general, special needs shall be taken into account by the Agency, both in the allocation of a reception place, where dispatching designates a compulsory place of registration adapted as far as possible to the needs of the beneficiary, and during the latter's stay in the reception structure, where an assessment of his individual situation is carried out within 30 days of designation and where continuous follow-up is carried out. If necessary, persons may be referred and/or transferred to external organisations in order to receive more in-depth support. For example, women are received throughout Fedasil's host network and its partners, but tactical arrangements such as separate wings are usually planned to accommodate women alone. There are also reception facilities with a specific accompaniment project for women. Thus, I visited one in Rixensart, which is intended for minors who are mothers. This Fedasil center is worth visiting, Mr. Kir. Lauvranges welcomes single women with children in housing run by Caritas. A new model of reception more appropriate to the individual needs of the beneficiaries had, moreover, been provided for in the government agreement. However, its application is delayed due to the saturation of the reception network observed since summer 2015 and due to the increase in arrivals in Belgium. In addition, the Agency is currently conducting a study on identifying and addressing the needs of people in vulnerable situations within the host network. Its objective is to assess field practices in this area. Finally, in the case of persons applying for multiple asylum, the Agency may decide to limit material assistance to medical support until the application is taken into consideration by the CGRA or the CSF (Knowledge and Learning Centre). If necessary, the person will be able to re-apply for material assistance and to present himself or herself for dispatch in order to have a reception place assigned to him or her. With regard to Dublin III detentions, the figures should be compared. Communicating them as part of an inquiry does not seem to me a good idea. In any case, persons in this category are not systematically detained. Finally, with regard to the other questions on this subject, I can only say that our action is in absolute compliance with the law and Dublin III.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, you have been very thorough in your answer. If you were to take stock and qualify how you are implementing the universal periodic review recommendations, would that be favourable, very favourable or satisfactory? How do you see things?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u4	There are two aspects. The government and the previous government have done key work to identify the most vulnerable in Fedasil's and its partners' hosting networks. There are a lot of plans. I didn't mention the CARDA project in Bierset. It is a project for very traumatized men and women. I've seen this project too, and it's worth it. There is also the Time-Out project for MENA youth. We're doing a lot for the MENA. Asylum policy continues to focus on vulnerable groups. Yeah, I'm happy with the field work. The work is not done, but it improves every year. People who are more vulnerable, either because they are traumatized or because they are single women or pregnant girls, etc., are a priority for Fedasil, the Red Cross, Caritas and all partners. When you give a bed every day to 30,000 people, there's a little bit of everything, so you have to diversify.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u5	Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your answers. The universal periodic review is ultimately a means of evaluating our policies and regularly implementing the recommendations under the auspices of the United Nations. I am pleased to see that the government before yours has also done a good job. It's nice to hear you recognize this fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u6	I'm trying to be intellectually honest, Mr. Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u7	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government - to set up a system to ensure the registration of all asylum applications at the border, including at ports; - to identify the body which would verify the guarantees of readmission in the first country of asylum and the practical arrangements for such verification; - clarify the responsibilities regarding the examination of the risk of violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 3 of the Convention against Torture in the event of the removal of the rejected asylum-seeker; - take advantage of the process of transposing the directives of the Common European Asylum System to adopt, where appropriate, more favourable standards in accordance with international law; - to maintain, in the new reception system, a sufficient number of individual housing units to meet individual needs, and to strengthen, throughout the asylum procedure, the mechanisms for identifying vulnerable persons with special needs in order to provide them with adequate reception and social follow-up; - to reverse the trend towards systematic detention of asylum-seekers at the border and the frequent use of detention under the Dublin Regulation; - to subject detention decisions to automatic judicial review; - establish an independent and effective mechanism specifically dedicated to the handling of complaints in detention centres; - to further align the status of refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, taking into account the similarities between the protection and integration needs of these two categories of persons; - to adopt a specific, accessible, fair and effective procedure for the recognition of the quality of stateless persons or to improve the existing procedure. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, advises the government - introduce a system allowing the registration of all asylum applications at the border, including ports, - identify the body which would monitor the safeguards relating to the readmission in the first country of asylum and lay down the practical arrangements for such surveillance, - define the responsibilities relating to the examination of the risk of breach of Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Article 3 of the Convention against Torture in the event of the expulsion of an applicant for asylum, - make use of the transposition of the Directives on a Common European Asylum System in order to adopt, where appropriate, more favourable and more appropriate standards in accordance with international law, - to maintain in the new reception scheme sufficient individual reception places to meet personal needs and to strengthen during the asylum procedure the measures enabling the identification of vulnerable persons with specific needs to provide them with appropriate reception and social follow-up; - the tendency to systematically lock up asylum seekers at the border and to make regular use of detention under the Dublin Regulation; - to subject detention decisions to an automatic legal review; - establish an independent and efficient mechanism for the handling of complaints in detention centres; - better coordination between refugee status and subsidiary protection status, as both categories of persons have similar protection and integration needs; - introduce a specific, accessible, equitable and efficient procedure for recognising the status of stateless person or improving the existing procedure. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Bellens. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u8	Mr President, there are a lot of questions about the Turkey deal, about fifteen or twenty. I would simply like to suggest that there will be a debate, in which each group will speak and that one answer will then be given, around which a debate may arise. There were questions coming in last night, too. It's the same for me. I would also like to answer each question individually. But at 12:30 I have an appointment at the cabinet, where I certainly want to be present. It's no big deal for me. I've got till 12:15. You're my boss.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u9	I will start with Mrs Matz, who has been kind enough to replace me as chairman. Thank you for that, Mrs. Matz. In the meantime, we will see who is present and how we can possibly link a topical debate to this. A number of questions have already been merged. You seem to want to merge the merged questions even further. We shall look at this together during the debate on Mrs Matz's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I apologize for letting this question drag on, but, as you know, I have encountered a few problems that did not allow me to come and ask it earlier. On 26 January, the French National Assembly adopted the draft law on the rights of foreigners, a part of which is devoted to non-European foreign students. From now on, these students will no longer have to renew their residence permit every year, but they will be able to be issued a "multi-annual residence card", after a year in France. This visa will remain valid until the end of their studies, with a maximum duration of 4 years. Other changes have also been made for these students. Thus, repetition will no longer be considered as grounds for refusal of the visa. In addition, once they have completed their studies, they will be able to obtain a non-renewable one-year temporary residence permit if they find a job or start a business. In Belgium, foreigners who come to undertake or pursue higher education may obtain a long-stay national visa, known as "visa D", the validity of which may not exceed one year. This visa is also granted to workers or in the context of family reunification. My questions are as follows. Are there any meetings with the Ministers of Higher Education to discuss topics related to foreigners who are studying in Belgium? What do you think of the measures adopted in France? Could such avenues be considered in Belgium? What measures are you planning to simplify administrative procedures for foreign students? Is repetition a ground for refusal to renew the residence permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Matz, Directive 2004/114 EC of the European Council of 13 December 2004 on the conditions for admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, exchange of pupils, unpaid training or voluntary work and Directive 2005/71 EC of the European Council of 12 October 2005 on a specific procedure for admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research have been recast. The future directive which will replace them has not yet been adopted by the European Parliament but should enter into force shortly. Translation has yet to take place and then the debates in the European Parliament. I can say that we are really waiting for this new student directive. The political partners concerned by the various residence statuses organised by this proposal for a directive will be consulted as part of its transposition. The implementation of the future directive will provide an opportunity to make residence legislation more transparent and more adapted to the reality of the field. The Member States have two years to transpose this directive, but my ambition is not to wait two years. In addition, regular contacts are held between the field actors and the competent services of the Office in order to ensure an exchange of views on the problems facing everyone and to provide solutions to them. The reality of the field will also be taken into account in the transposition of the future directive. It will be a matter of learning from the past. The aim will be to facilitate the stay of foreigners involved in more appropriate procedures while ensuring that abuses and misappropriation of proceedings are avoided. Secondly, I believe that the current provisions do not stand in the way of student migration. On the other hand, the supply of training has diversified and the organisation of higher education has become much more flexible and complex, leaving the student more autonomous in the way he or she intends to train. There is also an important place for mobility in and outside Belgium. Adapting the current regulation to this reality of higher education in order to facilitate access to the applicable rules and the stay of students who have a real desire to continue their studies in Belgium therefore becomes a necessity. More and more students from third countries come to Belgium to study. The regulation is good, but it can of course be optimised. Each State shall adopt measures to enable it to meet its objectives. Our primary objective will be to make the current system more transparent and responsive to the reality of higher education, in compliance with European directives. When the time has come to transpose the future directive into Belgian law, Belgium will in turn take the measures appropriate to its objectives, within the limits of that directive. The cases in which a student's stay may be terminated are listed in section 61 of the 1980 Act. One of these reasons is the excessive prolongation of studies based on the results. Repeating is not in itself a reason for ending residence but is taken into account. It is clear that the case of a student who does not work seriously for one, two or three years will be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u12	Is this not done on an ex officio basis? Isn't that because he's repeating?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u13	No, it is one element among others that can be taken into account to remove the card or not extend it. The card is valid for one year. In addition, the notice of the institution in which the student is enrolled and in which he or she was enrolled the previous year is required prior to the decision. There is always a consultation between the Foreign Office and the university, for example. These provisions are in line with the Directive since Member States are allowed, under Article 12 of the Directive, to terminate the stay or refuse to renew it in the event of insufficient progress in studies. It is up to each Member State to define the cases and conditions under which this provision is to be applied. This was included in the proposal for a "recast" directive. It is therefore highly probable that administrative practices are and continue to be different from one Member State to another. When there are reasonable grounds for poor results at the end of the year, the residence permit is not withdrawn; it will be extended. It's like at university, you can double but triple can only be done on reasonable grounds. So it's possible. For me, the same philosophy is applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u14	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. It is true that I have a little difficulty in understanding why France has anticipated legislation even though there is a European directive. It may even be in contradiction on some points with this one. When you say that you will not wait two years before implementing it, you mean that you will still wait for the directive to come out and then transpose it quickly. I am not defending the principle of a systematic renewal of the student's residence permit. However, as you said, we are aware of a lack of transparency in the initial granting of the visa for them. We have the impression that this is not always based on stable criteria. It is difficult for a student to know if he or she will obtain a visa by entering a given curriculum. For renewal, it's a little different. You yourself note that the diversification of training offers is a factor in this respect. I am thinking of the greater facilities offered by training for jobs in short supply. The aim is therefore transparency. It's not about welcoming all the students. Those who are received must benefit from an added value for their return to their country of origin. Let us be clear: it is in this sense that my question was asked, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u15	After the questions from Mrs Cassart-Milleux and myself, we will come to the attached questions. We will merge a number of merged questions with other ones. These are the combined questions 9960, 10534, 10537, 10649, 10876, 11354, which are combined with the questions on the Europe-Turkey Agreement Nos 10538, 10539, 10879, 11351, 11352 and Question No 11352. No 10648 by Mrs Cassart on hotspots, under item 17 on the agenda, and by Mr Crusnière, under item 24 on the agenda, 10799 sur la réunion à Ankara. I forgot to mention paragraph 38/5, question No. Mr De Vriendt on the proposal from the European Commission on Turkey and the situation in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u16	Will there be a debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u17	A debate, on all these issues, yes. But first, we'll start with your two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u18	I propose that we ask the attached questions because everyone is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u19	There is also point 12 on the situation in Greece, in particular in the refugee camp of Idomeni. That is a question from the PvdA's colleagues. I may be able to answer that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u20	We can indeed add questions Nos 11353 and 10536.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u22	That's another thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u23	I'd rather deal with it all at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u25	(...) prefer to keep separate and treat it at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u26	I also believe that Mr De Vriendt's question on the settlement has a slightly different perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u27	That question is wider.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u28	Items 6, 12, 13, 17, 24 and 38/5 will therefore be joined. Mrs Cassart, we are now starting with your two questions or with the topical debate on Turkey, which will take a long time? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u29	I don't really have a problem. I will quickly ask my two questions to the Secretary of State, who will be able to respond quickly. The only concern is that I may be called in the Committee on the Economy. So I quickly ask my two questions, and then you will talk about the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u30	Mr President, Secretary of State, 2015 saw the arrival of many refugee candidates, mainly from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Iran. Once they have been granted political refugee status, they have eight weeks to leave the reception centre that houses them. They therefore have to find housing, something that is not obvious since, without a home, they do not receive assistance from the CPAS, although in some large cities, CPAS are used to these situations and help refugees find accommodation in the city in question, before they are domiciled there. Fedasil is responsible for the transition from material assistance received by refugees in reception centres to financial assistance received from CPAS. But it seems that a royal decree still has to regulate the supervision. This poses a problem because there is a risk that refugees will be left homeless, and therefore on the street, which is not the point, once they have been granted political refugee status. Minister, is the royal decree to regulate the arrangements for the supervision of refugees between their lives in the reception centre and their lives outside? When will it be published? What are the terms of this order?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the royal decree to which you refer is intended to lay down the arrangements for the transition from material assistance to social assistance. However, the fact that it has not been adopted since 2007 has in no way prevented Fedasil from ensuring this continuity of social assistance for recognized refugees. The adoption of this decree, the draft of which has yet to be finalized, is one of the objectives pursued during this legislature. I will present this project to the government, but I can already tell you that we are flexible over the two-month period (it's normally nine weeks, but it can be eight and a half). When a person is recognized as a subsidiary protected or recognized refugee, it is clear that we are flexible if, after two months, he or she has really not found a dwelling and can prove that he or she has made a great deal of effort to find one, as well as the CPAS. That's the second condition. But Fedasil foresees exceptions: 10% of recognized refugees have been in Fedasil centres, or those of its partners, or in ILAs, for more than two months. They asked: "I did everything, but I couldn't find another solution. Can I stay another month?" They can then stay for three months. They can even stay four months, but only with a reasoned request. After four months, it's over. Fedasil can say yes or no. It's possible. It has always been. I can say that we give it to 90% of those who ask for it. In 90% of the applications we allow this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, it was interesting to take stock of this order. It dates back to 2007; it's been a while. This government works and will come with solutions. As you said, there is no problem on the ground because, from the moment a reasoned request is made, there is a possibility of extension. It is clear that this extension cannot last either ad vitam aeternam. From the moment you get here, you have a status, you also have to have a willingness to find a place to stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u33	It is the responsibility of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u34	Absolutely, everyone has a role to play. I will eventually ask a few colleagues from the federated entities to ask questions on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u35	You keep the floor to ask your question No. 9868 on "the guarding market of the WTC 3".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u36	Mr President, I will turn this question into a written question because I believe that the debate that will follow is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u37	Thank you. I will ask my questions after the debate. All the groups that are present can, of course, ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u38	Mr President, I accept that my question on Greece should be included in the topical debate on Turkey, but I intend to receive answers in relation to the situation in Greece, Macedonia, etc. And that's not a way to avoid the question I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u39	What question is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u40	This is my question No 11353 attached to Mr Hedebouw's question!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u41	Question No 10536 by Mr Hedebouw has already been taken up...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u42	That's the meaning of my question! Since Question No 10536 by Mr Hedebouw is taken up in the current debate and does not concern Turkey directly, even if everything is connected, but Greece and Macedonia, I simply asked that my question not be avoided since it was attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u43	But we will keep your question and the minister will answer it. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, we shall have the questions asked. I propose that all the groups that have tabled a question should also ask that question. It makes no sense to turn it into a topical debate, which would allow groups to join, since a question has been put from each group. For my group, I am the only one. I trust the Secretary of State's answer. I'll be neutral. Mr De Vriendt, you may begin with the first question in the series of questions that will be grouped together and are waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u44	Mr President, it will take a great deal of concentration from the Secretary of State to answer all these questions, because many have been combined. Mr Secretary of State, the deal between Europe and Turkey on how to deal with the refugee crisis raises a great many questions, and that is more than right. The main problem seems to me to be that we ignore the right to asylum in Europe, in countries that have signed the Convention on Refugees, and that we transfer the hot potato to a country such as Turkey, which does not have full rights for refugees. The main argument that has recently been used is that fewer people are killed in the Mediterranean. I would like to make three brief comments. First of all, there are still casualties along that same route. Secondly, the situation in Turkey itself for the people who are being sent back or the people who have to stay there is equally dangerous, because there are deaths there too. Thirdly, new routes will be created that will also require victims. The claim that the agreement with Turkey prevents casualties is, in fact, totally incorrect. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions for you about the procedure, because there are still some doubts as to exactly what is happening to people who are currently arriving in Greece. Firstly, what happens to Syrian refugees being intercepted on the Mediterranean Sea or arriving in Greece? What exactly is the procedure for them? Secondly, what happens to the non-Syrian refugees? They would be systematically brought back to Turkey. How will the right to asylum be guaranteed for non-Syrian refugees who will in principle be sent back to Turkey? If they are sent back to Turkey, what will happen to the outcome of their asylum procedure? What guarantees are there that refugees in Turkey will be treated properly? Reception of refugees in their own region is still one of the necessary elements to tackle the whole problem. That's a fact. What resources has Belgium promised and effectively spent on the reception of refugees in its own region in the Middle East? I would like the data for 2015 and 2016. A particularly worrying and repeatedly confirmed rumor that I would also like to present to you is that Turkey would not hesitate to put Syrian refugees back across the Syrian border. The non-refoulement principle is hereby destroyed and pushed aside into the extreme. Another question concerns the latest proposal by the European Commission to push through visa liberalisation for Turks wishing to travel to Europe. Meanwhile, the situation for refugees in Greece is unsustainable. The refugee agreement itself also raises many questions. That's what I was talking about earlier. Following the European Commission's proposal, it is now up to the Member States and the European Parliament to decide. What is Belgium's position? We have heard a number of politicians from the majority, especially at European level, in particular the Open VLD and N-VA. They are opposed to the European Commission's proposal. It's about politicians from the majority. Will the Belgian Government be consistent? What will be the voting behaviour of the Commission's proposal? What will happen to the European conditions that Turkey has not yet achieved? As regards the situation on the Greek mainland, Amnesty International reported on the situation of nearly 50 000 refugees and asylum seekers trapped there under inhuman conditions. What does Europe provide to help these people? Forelast question. Is it true that Belgium has still not taken over any asylum seeker from Greece in implementation of the distribution plan to fill in 2 415 places? How do you explain that? Finally, how will our country support Greece to ensure that all refugees and asylum seekers in the country receive a proper procedure and reception?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, as many Members of the majority and the opposition have reservations and questions, I have also asked myself questions about the agreement between Turkey and Europe. CD&V also has questions about this. Turkey has signed the Geneva Convention, but not the corresponding protocol. As a result, people from third countries cannot apply for asylum in Turkey. Now Turkey has made an exception for Syrians who are given some kind of temporary protection. For other nationalities such as Afghans, Iraqis and, in fact, all other nationalities, Turkey does not yet have an asylum procedure. We can ask ourselves a lot of questions. We also note that, even for Syrians, the situation in Turkey is very difficult. The refugees who are in refugee camps in Turkey, the minority, namely 360 000, are more or less given adequate reception and opportunities to work in or outside the camp or to go to school. However, the vast majority, more than two million refugees, are not received by the Turkish authorities. They are actually left to their own devices. Because of lack of space, they must seek shelter for themselves. There's no job opportunity. They are often exploited. Hence the need for many refugees, including many Syrians, to make the crossing. Turkey does not succeed in providing shelter, possibly as we do, with bed, bath and bread, to anyone who needs shelter. That's the big problem. I have the following questions. How does our country ensure that the Turkish-European readmission agreement is properly implemented? The agreement itself lays down many conditions, including the granting of asylum to refugees, including in Turkey, and respect for international conventions. Where does that leave Turkey? How does Europe look at that? What control options are included in the agreement so that Europe can monitor the proper treatment of refugees in Turkey? The agreement also provides for the resettlement of refugees from Turkey, for each Syrian refugee who is taken over from Greece. How many people will resettle our country? A number of countries have started this resettlement process. Our country is not there yet, but to show their good will to Turkey there are already countries that have wanted to resettle people from Turkey. What preparations have you already made for resettlement? Do we have a certain profile or leave it entirely to UNHCR to do so? For example, do we propose that these should be vulnerable groups, family or family people in our country, or minorities? Is there a particular profile or do we not put a profile first? What agreements have already been reached with other EU Member States? What about the second aspect of the deal? Eventually, a relocation from Greece is needed and not only from Turkey. In the latter case, we are talking about resettlement. Relocation from Greece is also needed for refugees who are ultimately happy but are not returned. I have heard that very few people are being sent back to Turkey at the moment, just because Turkey does not yet have adequate legislation. Other nationalities will not be returned because they cannot yet apply for asylum. Many Syrians are not sent back if it turns out that they are unaccompanied minors, families with children, women with children and people who can assert the right to family reunification. When they arrive in Greece and it turns out, for example, that their husband or wife is in another country, they are not effectively returned. It is a good thing, in itself, that very careful thought is being given to who is or is not being sent back. In the deal it was agreed that the people who are returned will end up at the bottom of the list. The resettlement of the people from the refugee camps would begin. The situation is, after all, the most difficult for them. Now, however, it appears in practice that this is not the case. People in the refugee camps still have it pretty good or very good. They are often not party to resettlement questions. We must therefore focus on an adjustment of the deal, if possible, so that people who are really in a precarious situation are re-established. Of course, we must urge Turkey to give all refugees the right to an asylum procedure and to appeal. However, we must also insist on decent care, at least on bed, bath and bread. Now, of the 700 000 Syrian children, 400 000 cannot go to school. That is a problem that will not be solved by closing our eyes to it. I therefore hope that our country, although it is a European deal, will be able to take control and that we will be able to exert pressure on Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u46	Mr Hedebouw is not present. Mr Van Hees, this is probably the same question as your question earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u47	Mr President, a lot has already been said. On 1 April, the Greek Parliament passed a new law on asylum: migrants who may be returned to Turkey must either have renounced their right to apply for asylum in Greece or have been denied their application at first instance. Mr Secretary of State, when did the first removals of migrants to Turkey take place? How many people were involved? Does the new Greek Asylum Act comply with the 1949 Geneva Convention? What happens to these people when they return to Turkish soil? My second question was more about hotspots. I have already asked you several times about the hotspots but they have taken a slightly different direction as a result of this agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Since March 18, it appears that the registration centres no longer have the same role. While they were open camps for the registration of migrants, where refugee candidates stayed only a few days before returning, they became closed centres with a great deal of demands. In addition, the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees has expressed concern about the conditions for the application of asylum in these registration centres. Mr Secretary of State, are the eleven hotspots now operational and operating differently from what was planned? What is their role now that the EU-Turkey agreement of 18 March 2016 is in force? Have you been aware of the concerns of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees regarding the conditions for the application of asylum in registration centres? Are they well-founded? Have the 4 000 agents promised by the European Union to strengthen the staff of the hotspots arrived? Where did they come from? Are they recruited specifically for this mission or are they seconded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u48	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it was you who said that a solution had to be found in consultation with Turkey to stop an uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers. And you even said it was a winning bet. I think it's far from winning. Firstly, because the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is fragile. Fragility because Turkey has already threatened to put an end to it if it does not obtain visa liberalisation in return. You yourself said it was to allow thousands of Kurds to come to Europe. Then because there will soon be three million refugees in Turkey and it is – according to Human Rights Watch – a time bomb. Also with the risk regarding the situation of children. The researcher who mentions this refers to a lost generation for these children, with a vulnerability to early marriage, forced labour, radicalization and recruitment by terrorist groups. But in addition to the fragility of this agreement with Turkey, there is also the question of its legality, since for this agreement to be valid, legal, Turkey must be considered a safe country, a safe third State. And for that there are four conditions, three of which in my view are not respected. The first condition that is not respected is that asylum seekers are protected from refoulement, but it is clearly not. Secondly, they cannot be locked up and can't be subjected to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, either. And thirdly, there is the question of being able to enjoy protection in accordance with the Geneva Convention, and this concerns in particular the situation of children. I was therefore saying that the first two conditions mentioned above are not respected since the Turkish border guards have been returning about 100 Syrian refugees to the war zone every day since January. And according to Human Rights Watch, a report indicates that Turkish border guards opened fire on Syrian refugees fleeing Daesh. In December, Amnesty published a report according to which hundreds of refugees are detained illegally and in the utmost secrecy in camps in Turkey. This clearly shows that Turkey cannot be considered a safe third State. You yourself, Mr Secretary of State, said last month that, if it appeared that Syrians in Turkey were being sent back to Syria, this country would have to be reconsidered as a safe country. Minister, what is your current judgment? Have you changed your mind? With regard to the third condition I have mentioned concerning children, children are apparently unable to attend school. It appears that there are many problems and that they are subjected to, inter alia, forced labour. What position did Belgium take at the European summit with regard to the detention of people fleeing the war and Daesh? Under what conditions were refugees detained in the centres, initially hotspots becoming real detention centres? How is it possible that the asylum procedure can be dealt with there in about ten days, whereas in Belgium it takes several months? Why does the press not have access to these centres? What is the current legal situation for non-European refugees in Turkey? In practice, did refugees have access to the labour market? Do children have access to education? How many children are still out of school? I also have a more specific question about the situation in Idomeni, a Greek village on the border with Macedonia where Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) finds a rather serious situation. According to MSF, the authorities have abandoned the Idomeni camp. Only NGOs would provide assistance to respond to what the European Commission itself has described as a humanitarian crisis. A nurse from Médecins du Monde testified to the brutal practices of the Macedonian police towards refugees, many of whom were allegedly beaten and had broken bones. She claims that the police beat up a refugee in a chair and humiliated him. Mr Secretary of State, what is planned for these 50,000 refugees in Greece? What share of the EUR 700 million promised by the European Commission to Greece in order to be able to cope with this humanitarian crisis has already been paid out? Finally, what does Belgium intend to do to put an end to the brutal and illegal practices of the Macedonian police currently supported by the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to come back today to the agreement itself. I have already had the opportunity, and my group has also done so, both in plenary and in the Committee on European Affairs to the Prime Minister, to say everything we think is wrong. Unfortunately, the time is no longer ripe for a philosophizing on the content but on the verification of the correct application of this wrong agreement. This agreement has been in place for a few weeks and I would like to hear from you about monitoring and monitoring - monitoring compliance with the agreement by all parties, but also from a financial point of view. This is a huge amount of money. I would like to know how things are changing and how we can verify that the sums already collected actually benefit migrants and their associations directly. With respect to the funding component, it is known that the amounts are significant. There was talk of a Belgian shareholding of more or less 72 million. I asked the Prime Minister, who did not have all the information at the time. Do you know a little more? What is the amount of the Belgian contribution? From what appropriations will this amount be taken? Much has been said by my colleagues about the nature of this agreement. I would like to return to the aspect of the recognition of Turkey as a safe country, in the context of the return to that country of persons who would apply for asylum in Belgium or elsewhere, after having transited through that country. In this context, I wonder about the relevance of such a qualification. At European level, third countries can only qualify as "safe countries" in the case of countries which do not resort to persecution and ill-treatment, which respect the principle of non-refoulement, which examine applications for asylum and offer protection to refugees in need, according to the Geneva Convention. It is known that Turkey has not signed the annexes to this Convention. However, some sources report very difficult living conditions in Turkey, not least because of the massive influx of refugees into Turkey, but also because of more structural elements concerning the procedures themselves. I am thinking in particular of the closure of the borders with Syria and, as several colleagues have already said, of doubts raised by some about the effective observance of the principle of non-refoulement to Syria. I am also thinking of the recognition of refugee status for European nationals only. Migrants from other nations will have to settle for a transitional status that leaves no access to the labour market. I would therefore like to know your intentions in this area. In your opinion, does Turkey qualify for safe country status? What criteria do you use, if yes, to form your own opinion? My second question concerns your travel to Ankara with your colleagues from the Interior, Justice and Foreign Affairs. The main reason for this visit was the signing of a memorandum of understanding on asylum and migration between the Foreign Office and its Turkish correspondent. However, if my information is correct, at the last minute, the Turkish government linked the signing of this agreement to a significant flexibility in the exchange of information on members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) - which Belgium refused. Therefore, the memorandum of understanding could not be signed. The visit to Turkey also provided an opportunity to discuss with local authorities the possibility of speeding up the repatriation of asylum-seekers from Uzbekistan or Tajikistan, whose application had been rejected by Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, what will be the consequences of the non-conclusion of this agreement? Are talks still under way to find an alternative? As regards the possibility of speeding up the return of asylum seekers from Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, have you been able to achieve some progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify a number of points. First of all, what's the deal about? The Turks were financially asking party for 3 billion euros, of which Belgium contributes 71 million euros. The EUR 3 billion is not just a donation to the Turkish state budget, but can be used, for example, for military expenditure to the detriment of its own people. There are certain things you can imagine. I won't go into detail. The money is conditioned. The invoices must be approved. The money goes to improving the comfort of refugees in the refugee camps and, above all, to teaching the many hundreds of thousands of children, as Mrs Lanjri said, in the shelter camps and in the expansion of refugee children throughout Turkey. Last week, I don't think the money was deposited. However, I have to check, because that is not within my competence. You can always check with the Minister responsible. He'll be able to answer you. I don't think the money has been transferred yet, but it should be done soon. However, it is not my competence. Nevertheless, I think it should be done, because we have committed ourselves to this. I'd like to put things in perspective, too. Fedasil's reception budget for this year amounts to EUR 600 million. 71 million euros is a much smaller amount. It seems like a lot of money, but it's absolutely necessary. It is for a piece of development cooperation, but it is also in our own interest to get the children who do not go to school on the school benches as soon as possible. That is also in the interests of the West. It is also in Europe's interest to teach children there. The Syrian population had a fairly high level of education. Please do not let us throw that away because of the terrible civil war that is taking place there. Secondly, there are accession talks, the opening of new chapters in the context of Turkey's accession to the European Union. It is really only about one chapter, now under the Dutch Presidency, where the discussions have been reopened in the context of accession. In order to become a member of the European Union, there must be an agreement, not just talks, on 33 chapters, and there must also be unanimous approval in the European Council. It is very important that each Member State should approve this before a country can become a new EU Member State, after the 33 chapters have been completed positively and properly. That puts things in perspective, too. Thirdly, visa liberalisation. The Turkish Government is a very demanding party, not for visa liberalisation but for a visa waiver for all Turks from the end of next month. It is true, however, that all the conditions have not yet been met. Let me sum them up. The evaluation of the read mission can only take place if the read mission has actually entered into force and the readmission agreement with Turkey has not yet entered into force. An upgrade of biometric person passports is under way, but of course they need time to implement it everywhere. As far as the fight against corruption is concerned, all the conditions have not yet been met. As regards data protection legislation, there should be an operational agreement with Europol. There isn't. There is no legal cooperation with all the Member States at present. You will know which Member States do not yet have legal cooperation. The revision of the Terrorist Act must be brought into line with EU standards and also with the case law of the European Convention on Human Rights. The President of Turkey said yesterday that he does not intend to do so either, given their fight against terrorism, as he calls it, in Turkey. In that sense we are not yet there, Turkey is far from there. The Belgian position was correctly expressed by the Prime Minister last week. The Belgian position is that all the conditions for a visa waiver can be granted to Turkey. All these conditions are clearly, very clearly and clearly not met at the moment. Will all these conditions be met? I don't know. For example, the revision of the Terrorist Act is an essential element. This is an essential element for Turkey too, from the looks of it and from the sound of it. The fact that Turkey does not like this revision is a huge problem of granting visa waivers. In addition, we only want to go along with the visa waiver if there is a stronger emergency braking mechanism. At the moment there are not only visa talks with Turkey, but also with Kosovo, Georgia and Ukraine. The government's position is clear that there can be no visa waiver at the moment, certainly not before there is a stronger emergency braking mechanism in the European Visa Liberalisation Directive, the Visa Code, and that there should therefore be a more efficient procedure with a broadening of the suspension grounds. Quite specifically, there should also be an opportunity to lift the visa waiver if there is insufficient cooperation in the context of third-country nationals' reading mission. Quite specifically, under the assumption that we are granting visa waivers to Turkey and that many Turkish nationals from the south-east of Turkey come to Belgium with visa waivers and ask for asylum at the border, there is a mechanism to pull the emergency brake and to say that there is an excessive increase in asylum applications from the country to which we have just granted visa waivers. Then the emergency braking mechanism, which was approved by the European Parliament in 2012, could be put into effect. This does not apply to third-country nationals, but only to Turkish nationals. They can be Kurds, because they do have Turkish nationality. It does not apply to the 2.7 million Syrians in Turkey. That makes it a little weird. In that sense, it is necessary to take the view of the Belgian Government that there should be a clause or reinforced emergency braking mechanism for a sudden and strong asylum influx into Belgium of third-country nationals residing in the country which has been granted a visa exemption. I am going to the European Council for Home Affairs in Brussels next Friday, as every month. I will, of course, explain and defend the Belgian position there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u51	(...) visa exemption for all European countries, in groups, or is it possible that some countries are definitely not participating?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u52	No, it happens in group. Under the visa waiver and the Visa Code, this applies to all countries, at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u53	I have a technical question with what you just said. You gave the example of the Syrians in Turkey. To what extent does a visa waiver apply to refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u54	He says they're from Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u55	Yeah, but still...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u56	It's done as part of a read mission. They commit themselves to comply with the readmission procedure. If we grant a visa waiver, they will have to comply with the read mission procedure for the Turks anyway. These matters always go hand in hand with visa exemptions, but we want the read mission agreements to continue to apply to third-country nationals on Turkish territory. I would never want to be so perfide, but one might think, for example, that a visa exemption will be granted at the end of June and that the deal will then be broken up by Turkey and suddenly they will not accept anyone from the Greek islands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u57	The question is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u58	It's about reading mission. If they suddenly say in mid-June that they do have their visa waiver, but that the deal is no longer going to happen, that the rest of them no longer care, that we can keep our money and that they know that we do not want to join Europe, then at the moment we do not have an instrument in the Visa Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u59	The visa waiver applies only to those who are Turkish nationals and not to a third-country national who comes from Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u60	It's about the third-country readership procedure. The visa waiver is granted to the Turks. It concerns the visa waiver for the Turks and the third-country readership mission. The reading mission for the Turks is in it, that's always together, but it's also about reading mission for third-country nationals. We certainly want this to be done, and we are not alone. That is also the communication last week from Mrs Merkel and Mr Hollande. They said that additional conditions should be imposed in the context of third-country nationals' read mission. By the way, this is initially a proposal from Belgium. I am very pleased that Mrs Merkel and Mr Hollande have been able to get the international press with this, and that is a very good thing for them, because if they do not support it, it will probably not be there and if they support it it will probably be there. In any case, I am pleased that we have been able to make the proposal. These are the three elements on which the EU-Turkey deal is based. That deal won't win a beauty prize, but that deal is efficient. The influx has fallen very strongly. In January 2016, 62 000 people arrived on the Greek islands. The deal started on 20 March and in April 2016 it was 4 000. This is an anti-drinking plan, whatever it may be said about it. Mr De Vriendt, those deaths at sea are, of course, the argument that I have been hearing from the opposition for months. Now you say that this is not an argument, because there are still dying. According to the latest statistics, in April 2016, after the deal, 10 more people drowned in the Aegean Sea. Before that, there were hundreds and hundreds of them a month. You should check the numbers. I'll get them to you. So that's a big difference. In December 2015 it was 207, in April 2016 it was 10. I came back from vacation in August when the asylum crisis started. I had many positive suggestions from the opposition and the most important one was to stop those drownings, to save the people from the sea. We have carried out operations, many more have been saved, fewer drownings have taken place since the operation in the Mediterranean with the help of Belgian Defence. Now we have a solution that has caused the number of deaths to fall. However, you are talking about a fake argument. Honestly, I don't follow very well anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u61	I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u62	That's good. I look forward to your explanation. So the influx has fallen very strongly. The first non-recital decisions have been taken. Now, of course, we have to wait for the appeal procedure. The establishment of an asylum appeal body for Greece is a Greek competence, which is not evident. Belgium wants to help. Three judges of the Council for Foreign Affairs were ready to leave. However, the Greeks were not ready. So they still haven't left. However, we are still prepared to help the Greeks. 386 migrants have already been returned from Greece to Turkey since 20 March 2016. One could also say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say'say's say'say's say '. It's just the way you look at it. It's about people who haven't applied for asylum. It is very clear about people who have not applied for asylum in Greece. With regard to the Belgian commitments, I can tell you that we have taken the commitment to do a resettlement from Turkey in 2016 for 250 refugees. The files were requested from the UNHCR. At the end of May 2016, we will get those files. In this context, I would like to say that I am absolutely of good will for the resolution and the relocation. That's no problem at all. Let them come. However, we had no files on Turkey. We had pointed out that all the files had been done from Germany and the Netherlands. That was, because there had already been pledged by the regular resetllement pledge, which already ran in the two-year plan 2015-2016. They just speeded up that plane or that booking. However, we did not have any files. We do not normally do so from Turkey. We are from Lebanon. Now I have stated that we will do so from Turkey, for at least 250 refugees. We want to start with that number. We are talking about 250 people from the contingent that we will do, namely 550 refugees, for 2016. So we will do 250 files. However, we had not received any files from the UNHCR. I even asked my Dutch colleague whether we could not take over some of the Dutch files, so that we could, at least symbolically, receive a number of refugees from Turkey in Belgium. However, the Dutch did not want this because it was their files. They also have the European Presidency. So I fully understand the attitude of the Netherlands. It's not like I'm holding things back. The opposite is true. The same applies to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u63	Is there a particular profile or didn't you ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u64	We usually ask the most vulnerable groups and Syrians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u65	You did ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u66	Yeah, that's what we're asking. As far as relocations from Greece are concerned, there are 200 relocations from Greece. The Prime Minister had promised 100. I added 100 last week. The files have been requested from Greece. We're waiting for the crossing. On 25 May, the first 20 arrives from Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u68	UNHCR's files don't arrive until the end of May. Then they'll come to us first and we'll have to screen it. Then the tickets can be booked and the practical matters dealt with. We have committed ourselves to sending 50 experts to Greece. There are six for now and there will be nine next week, but the security situation needs to be taken into account. I will put it in Dutch because it is a delicate issue. There are security issues on the islands in the hotspots. I sent a letter to my Greek colleague and to the Director of EASO, Mr Carreira. I also got a letter back. Mr President, I will hand those letters over to the secretariat of the committee, so that they can also be delivered to the members. I have expressed my concerns about the security situation in which our and other European employees must operate. There's an audit of a German security expert right now. That report will be delivered this week. There are still some issues and there have been a lot of tensions on the islands in recent weeks. Of course, a lot of these people aren't satisfied that they're stuck there. So I will hand those letters over to the Chamber, so that they can be discussed further if you wish. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless would send a number of staff. He has put that temporarily on hold until there is more clarity about the security situation. As regards material support to Greece. With regard to material aid to Greece, we have sent 2 000 blankets, 200 tents and medical kits for 20 000 people to the hotspots, but also to the people in Idomeni. What is the situation in Greece? At the moment there are about 8,000 people on the hotspots, on the islands. Those people will normally be returned to Turkey unless their application is considered. Of these, only 386 were sent back because they did not apply for asylum. We see that everyone is applying for asylum in Greece, which was initially the intention of the European Asylum Procedure Directive, to apply for asylum at the external border. Now, because they can no longer go through and are threatened with being sent back, they all apply for asylum in Greece. It was meant to be. I do not want to discuss this too much, but that was the concept and now it is happening. This asylum procedure is being launched in the Greek asylum system. It's being considered. If the answer is negative, they can be returned. If it is positive, their asylum procedure runs, they can appeal again, and so on. Then things will be as they are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u69	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u70	Yeah, it's in the early stages. It's all happening fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u72	It's in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u73	Can people file appeals? Yes. There are 8 000 people on the spot and about 50 000 on the mainland. They're eligible for relocation. That depends on nationality. If they're Syrians, they're eligible for relocation. That's the 200 we made. If they apply for asylum in Greece, they can enter the Greek asylum procedure. If they are not eligible for relocation, asylum applications or are not considered, return is also the only option. That is the logic of an asylum policy. I understand the worries about Idomeni, but there are two things. Firstly, there are people who do not want to seek asylum in Greece and who do not want to return to Turkey. It is the same problem in Calais: they do not want to apply for asylum in France but they do not want to return either, they want to go to England. Secondly, Greece is convincing some to apply for asylum in Greece. There is also a part that has already applied for asylum in Greece. It is also increasingly being moved to other asylum centres in Greece, but not in Idomeni. The situation in Idomeni is a bad situation and it needs to be resolved. They are telling us that Macedonia is closing its borders. Macedonia is not a Member State of the European Union. Macedonia is a sovereign state that has taken the decision to close its borders. That is, of course, their right. They have the right, and even the duty, to guard their borders and to deny access to the territory under Macedonian law. I am not a judge of law, but a country, just like no Member State, that decides to close a border, so of course there are still some. As far as the treatment in Turkey is concerned, and in particular its legality. It is in line with European directives. The concept of "secure third country' is enshrined in the European Directive, which has been transposed by the Greeks. Procedural guarantees have been given, including on the suspensive action. As far as the treatment in Turkey is concerned, you can apply for asylum in Turkey. There are a number of things I would like to say about this. Firstly, according to Turkey's national law, anyone can apply for asylum in Turkey, not only Syrians, but also others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u74	Third countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u75	A Belgian cannot apply for asylum in Belgium either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u76	No, it is about third-country nationals outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u77	Yes. That's one. Secondly, the agreement is very clear. That is one of the commitments of the Turkey-Europe deal, that they must protect everyone. That is just as much an agreement as the fact that they have to meet the conditions for visa waiver before they get it. They must abide by the agreements that have been made. Non refoulement: it is written in black and white that the Turks must abide by it. The European Commission continuously monitors and reports every two weeks, almost every week. There is permanent political and technical dialogue. The Turks have made a lot of legal adjustments. For example, they have amended legislation on work permits, work permits are granted, including to non-Syrians. Only now the Turks themselves see that there is relatively little interest in the work permits. One may then wonder why. In my view, this can be explained by the following, although I am not active in Turkey. I was told that one possible reason is that part of the Syrian refugees, who are at 2.7 million, have been working for some time without a work permit. In that sense, the push is to apply for a work permit, maybe not that big anymore. At least it's legal now. It is also quite clear that the Turks must commit themselves to additional education and care. It is true that some of the refugees are not being cared for and are not receiving education, but very little is said, and that is why the Turks were so angry at the European Union about the efforts they are making, which they have long been doing, namely to receive 2.7 million people on their territory, part in tent camps and part not. Those who are not in the tent camps also do so by choice. There's a part that would rather not be in a tent camp, but in the city, because there's work there. After all, there is little work in the tent camps. So we have to look at things in a nuanced way. The Turks have made enormous efforts in the area of shelter. We have to do it once, a country of 80 million inhabitants is catching 2.7 million refugees, teaching 300 000 to 400 000 children, thousands of classes are needed and thousands of teachers have to be recruited. They sometimes find themselves in a position to do so, and I understand that this is not sufficiently highlighted in Europe, it is always about things that may not run at 100% and where they still have to take steps forward. It is never said, however, that they have already done a great deal of work. I believe that this may be said here in the Belgian Parliament, and I have done so on this occasion. Then I come to the efforts to provide care in our own region. Mr De Vriendt, this is part of development cooperation and you must ask Minister De Croo. If I understand correctly, another EUR 70 million commitment was made yesterday. There has been a communication about this, I have read it, perhaps you have read it as well. So that's Minister De Croo's jurisdiction. It is quite clear that this really must be made a priority, and so does the government. We have already done several pledges at international level. We will also keep all the promises from the Turkey-Europe deal, and we will continue to invest to the maximum. It is not just about money, it is also about humanitarian aid, about sending asylum workers, people from Fedasil and the CGVS, judges from the RVV, people from the Foreign Affairs Service for the asylum procedure to help with the intake. We do a lot of things and try to help as much as possible. There are our donations to UNHCR and IOM, we are one of the countries that consistently always contribute to IOM, one of the great fixed values in terms of their subsidies. You asked about Belgium's voting behaviour. We will see at the JAI Council next week exactly what is being presented. The agenda wasn't final. Negotiations on the agenda setting are still under way, under the chairmanship of the Dutch. If there is a vote, I have made Belgium's position very clear. The conditions must be fulfilled and there must be an additional guarantee on the admission of third-country nationals. If there is a vote, I will vote according to whether or not the conditions are fulfilled. Let's make that very clear. That is with the full support of the entire Belgian Government. I believe I have answered most of the questions? Why isn't the press invited? I can't answer you. I've also read this information, but I don't know if it's accurate. Whether the press is really refused on those islands, on those hotspots, I don't know if that's true. I can only say that tensions are present in the hotspots. Perhaps it is for security reasons that journalists are not welcome. I'll check it out. Mr Crusnière, with regard to our trip to Ankara, the readmission of Uzbeks and Tajiks must be discussed with their respective countries. The discussion with Turkey could only concern the resumption of those who have clearly transited through Turkey. The recovery clause for third-country nationals will enter into force only on 1 June. I can already inform you that the number of Uzbeks or Tajiks who have visibly passed through Turkey will be negligible. The item is therefore not on the agenda of discussions with Turkey. In addition, Belgium's policy is to repatriate foreigners in the first place to their country of origin. The memorandum of understanding had not been signed, but the Foreign Office had informed the Turkish Directorate-General for Migration Management that it wished to maintain the cooperation between the two departments in good understanding. Two Turkish delegations have already been received. In addition, a mission to Ankara was organized. The willingness of both sides to cooperate is very clear. We therefore continue this cooperation. The lack of signature of this MoU has no consequences. For several years, we have had a readmission agreement with Turkey, which is working well. Another agreement concerns the authorisation to use Istanbul airport as a hub. This is very important for our return and repatriation policy. Indeed, Istanbul has one of the largest airports in the world. This agreement was reached before our mission and does not pose any problems. The most sensitive aspect was the agreement on police cooperation, but it is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u78	I have one more question for clarification. You say that there is an asylum option for other nationalities in Turkey. That was exactly the problem, wasn't it? That is also what Europe has called for, in particular that adequate protection should be given to the philosophy of the Geneva Convention and its protocol for everyone. There is no such thing in Turkey now. They only have a certain level of protection for Syrians which is somewhat comparable. You surprise me when you say that there is no problem and that this is already there for other nationalities. I think there is a problem, otherwise Europe would not have insisted on it. Can you clarify that again? This also explains why so few people are being sent back because a number of nationalities are not protected in Turkey. I would be pleased if this had already been adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u79	Turkey's national legislation recently states that all nationalities can apply for asylum in Turkey. They have not yet ratified the Vienna Convention, but they have put it into national law. They have given the full commitment that they will give the possibility of protection to all who reside on their territory, not only to the Syrians. That's what their law says. How to apply for asylum, I do not know. This is in the reports published by the European Commission. Maybe it's interesting to have a look at them here, too. Last week's follow-up report describes the state of play point by point. The European Commission reports on the state of play almost weekly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u80	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. Maybe first something about the deaths in the Mediterranean. Of course, it is crucial that as few victims as possible are among the refugees in their attempt to reach Europe, but what difference does it make if these victims do not fall in the Mediterranean Sea but in other places? It doesn't matter at all. In fact, it is true that there are victims in Turkey. The Turks are putting refugees across the border with Syria, Mr Secretary of State. I think their lives are in danger there. The Turkish government, with which you concluded an agreement as a member of the European Union, is putting refugees back across the border. That's well documented. That is certainly a serious threat to their lives. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u82	I'll give you my solution right away. Think a little longer. One, there are still deaths in the Mediterranean. Two, there is a life-threatening situation in Turkey, especially if they are moved across the border with Syria. Three, there will be other routes. That is my answer, Mr Secretary of State. Now I'm giving you my solution, something you've always left behind in the past few years. Create legal gateways for war refugees to Europe and to Belgium. Yeah, that's what it's about. Then we talk about resettlement, with a fair distribution plan. Then I'll get to your grades. That will be discussed in another question. What will you do this year? You are talking about 550 people, 250 of whom are from Turkey. That's a joke, Mr Secretary of State. Moreover, as you said yourself, that has not yet been done. I've pulled the numbers before. Resettlement is about a legal gateway, bringing refugees from the camps to Europe and to Belgium. You have not yet fulfilled your 2014 and 2015 promises. Black and white. As far as the deal with Turkey is concerned, the right to asylum exists on paper. The problem is that in practice the obstacles are so numerous that there is no real right to asylum. That is exactly what Europe is about. So there isn't. What's not? Reception and protection of refugees in Turkey, whatever their nationality, as it should be. There is no such thing. You know what else isn't there? The holding of Syrian refugees, at least on Turkish territory. No, Amnesty International documented it, up to 100 a day, not 100 a day, but there have been peaks of 100 Syrian refugees who were put across the border in one day. Mr Secretary of State, my question to you is very simple. If all these things aren't in order, why is that deal still in place with Turkey? It is not about visa liberalisation. It is about a refugee deal, which is now in progress, but which does not meet the most human conditions, which I thought there would be a consensus about here in our house. You know people are being sent back across the border. You know that the right to asylum in Turkey does not work in practice. You know that protection is not enough, but you have made a deal with Turkey, as one of the Member States of the European Union. I will then go into what Belgium is doing. It's all going way too slow. You must listen carefully to what you have just said. I just talked about resettlement, about bringing people in from camps. What is now being done is totally inadequate. You don't even keep your own promises. However, I would also like to talk about relocation, bringing people from Greece here. Relocation is something other than resettlement. You say that it concerns 100 people and that the Prime Minister has added 100, but that intention has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u83	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u84	No, there's 200 of them. That's what you said. Read it yourself in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u85	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u86	So 200 in total, but has that plan been implemented yet? No! How many months have these people been stuck in Greece, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u87	(...)!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u88	I would advise everyone to filter your comprehensive answer carefully and check what you have already done, as Secretary of State, to avoid what you are suing, namely the deaths in the Mediterranean. There must be legal gateways and we must do our humane duty. You have just said, quite rightly, that Turkey is now receiving 2.7 million people. Jordan and Lebanon also provide shelter in their own region. Chapeau for those countries. To some extent I can follow you, but in recent years we could have relieved those countries and reduced the pressure for them. We could have done that by doing our part ourselves. From your partymate Sander Loones, I read in an opinion piece that these people are walking into Europe. As an understatement, that can count. Those people are gonna stumble in here. So you do your part, in that you guarantee protection to those who come here and survive the journey. That is true, but you have done absolutely not enough to relieve the refugee camps in the region, through resettlement or relocation, by spreading people from Greece. I advise everyone to check in your answer what has already happened. The criticism that Turkey is putting Syrian refugees back across the Syrian border has not been answered by you. I'd like to ask you again next time. Maybe we should get off the system to put everything together. I ask you very clearly: how can you defend such a deal with Turkey, a regime that puts war refugees back across the border and deliberately puts them in a life-threatening situation? You are right about visa liberalisation and the European conditions that Turkey has not yet achieved: what Erdogan said about his definition of terrorism is extremely worrying. But your answer is hopeful. You clearly said that visa liberalisation cannot be achieved in the current circumstances. Everything depends on the question that will be put on the table at European level, of course. I'd like to ask you not to be naive. It will be a discussion about interpretation. Turkey will at some point claim that it does meet the conditions. Then it will be up to you to keep your back straight, with the heels in the sand, and to plead for a crystal clear interpretation of the five conditions that are not fulfilled at the moment, and not to go along with some Turkish interpretation of reality. It'll be up to you, too. It will also be up to Belgium. Europe is not floating somewhere above us. Europe is made by the Member States, including you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to briefly replicate a number of things. Firstly, I follow you, of course, when you say that the deal did not win a beauty prize. If only it were, I could still support it. The deal isn't perfect. I don't think perfection is our world. But we must at least have the ambition to ensure that what is agreed in the agreement, and that the guarantees requested from Turkey, and from Greece, in some areas, become a reality. I mentioned the problems. Certain nationalities, including Syrians, do not receive the shelter they are entitled to. It may be that care is regulated by law, but that does not mean that it is being implemented. Either they ensure that the law becomes effective practice. That is what we have to watch, together with Europe. We would not rather have the rights of the refugees guaranteed. If we can help Turkey to respect human rights for all refugees, we must certainly do so, preferably through encouragement, preferably with the root, but if it is necessary with the stick. We must be absolutely vigilant about this, because I do not think that this is happening at the moment. In most other European countries there is bed/bath/bread, so shelter and guidance for refugees. That is not the case in Turkey. Not everyone gets the kind of care they need or can go to the shelter. They're not always tent camps. The testimonies of people from the refugee camps in Turkey are actually positive. But it's not enough, it's not enough. It is not enough to take up 360 000 people and not give them all the rest, or very bad or no rights. Turkey will have to be encouraged to provide decent reception for all refugees. We have to watch over that, otherwise we will be blackmailed by Turkey. We often see this in Erdogan's statements. If Erdogan says we shouldn't count on them to amend the law on terrorism, he's actually laughing at us in the face. Of course you can't. If the conditions are not met, we cannot make a deal to accept them. For the sake of the agreement on the refugee crisis, we cannot accept everything. It is therefore a good thing that we will check whether all the conditions for the visa waiver are met. I hope this will happen effectively. We must not lower the bar and allow Erdogan to laugh at us in the face. Of course, I am aware of the fact that Turkey, a country with almost 80 million inhabitants, is receiving almost 3 million people, and that is a lot. That is much more, Mr De Vriendt, than what Europe received last year. Last year, Europe received 1.2 million applications for asylum from refugees, and Turkey catches 3 million people. I would also like to draw attention to other countries such as Lebanon, which has received more than 1 million refugees out of a total of 6 million people. I hope that we can do the same for other countries that receive refugees and do not allow it to come this far. Otherwise, in the long run, we will no longer have the cooperation of countries which are doing a great deal now and may not receive enough international support. Our country cannot do this alone; we must support these countries effectively at European level. Very often people prefer to stay as close as possible to their own region, because they hope to be able to return to the country of origin after the conflict. Then it must be feasible and they must be entitled to education, to reception, to employment. If that is not the case, they open the gates and, of course, they want to go to a country, anywhere in the world, where they can send their children to school and have shelter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, like the Coué method, you remind us that the deal is effective. It is not enough to say that this is true, especially since there is a person who makes you wrong. It's you. Just listen to you to see that, in fact, you show that the deal is not effective. You have explained to us in detail that Turkey does not meet the conditions for visa liberalisation. You say that "not all conditions are fulfilled, far from there." It clearly doesn't work. On the part of the European Union and Belgium, you also say that there is no question of agreeing to move forward on this visa issue until Turkey meets all the conditions. This clearly doesn't work. There are 3 million refugees in Turkey. This is not a long-term tenable situation. It's easy to send everyone back to Turkey, but it's going to explode at some point. Above all, with regard to Turkey's situation as a safe country or rather as a unsafe country, we have a big problem. All you're saying, Secretary of State, is that "the agreement is clear." It's a little short as an answer. The agreement is clear but Turkey does not respect it! It turns Syrians back to Syria and to Daesh. Border guards are shooting at Syrian refugees. There is no protection for refugees in Syria, especially for children. There's no shortage of reports. I cited Amnesty's report on reception centres in Turkey, MSF's report on the Idomeni camp (the same problem), Human Rights Watch's report on children in Turkey, which speaks of them as a "lost generation". UNHCR also suspended its activities in the hotspots. The reports are alarming and you simply say that "the agreement is clear". I remind you - and I mentioned it in my question at the same time, Mr Secretary of State - of your own statement reported by De Tijd on 2 April: "If it appears that Turkey is returning Syrians to Syria, Turkey cannot be regarded as a safe third country". From the moment there's evidence that this is happening, I think you have to rule. Compared to drownings, you are quoting a figure of ten drownings, I believe, for April 2016. For my part, I give you the figure of 1,200 drowned since the beginning of 2016. These 1,200 drowned not only concern the Turkish coasts, but also new roads that are being created, especially from Libya. The problem of drowning is therefore far from being solved and even continues. Indeed, from the moment one blocks one way, there are others that open. The problem of drowning is not solved, but we find ourselves with very serious human rights problems, and even with the deaths of men, at the level of what Turkey is doing and the return of refugees to their executioners in Syria. So I think we're far from having solved the problem, far from it. We made it worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u91	Mr Van Hees, Libya is not a new route. Unfortunately, the fact that people are still dying in the sea for Libya is true. This is a discussion on the EU-Turkey deal. I would like answers to questions about Libya. I didn't deny that people are still drowning in the Mediterranean. I'm just saying that the number of drownings since the deal between the EU and Turkey has fallen with improbable figures. I am also pleased that the deal has been concluded with your ideologically enjoyed. Ideologically, they certainly enjoyed you. You meditate internationally even together with the people of Syria. That's always interesting to know. Mr De Vriendt, you say that one should not be naive about the deal with Turkey. What you are proposing, however, is completely naive. Legal migration routes to Europe. How many millions of people a year is that supposed to be? If you think there is still support for this in the European Union, then you are mistaken. You should try to attend a European meeting, not only with your ideological associates but also with other people, who are pursuing policies. I have done most of the work in 2015 in the field of legal asylum migration; most of it. Humanitarian visas times four or nearly 1,000 in 2015. The resolution pledges we have done have never been so high, but whether I do 550 or 55 000 a year, it will never be enough to know what huge refugee flows have been taking place in recent years, in the Middle East, but also in Africa and in large parts of Asia. These are all people who want to come to Europe, at least to five or six countries in Europe. That's immense. There's no support for it. When does it stop? At 550, at 5 500 or at 20 000 or 30 000? Will there not then be any more people who take boats, who try to illegally enter Europe through human trafficking in order to apply for asylum? If that's what you think, you're unlikely to be naive. That will not be the case at all. Open as many legal migration routes as you want, you will always get in the way of your numbers. You must also think about the general interest, about the support of our society; it is not the case that there are not enough challenges here. Secondly, you are talking about commitments, you must read it word for word in the report. Mr De Vriendt, I have made it quite clear that if we are doing everything for Greece, as we are doing for Turkey, I am prepared to do everything, and even more, to which we have committed ourselves so far. That's no problem at all. My position on the European table has been the same for over a year. Make sure that the asylum figures in Brussels fall, then I will relocation, reset as much as one wants, although that may be a bit exaggerated, but in any case much higher. That's no problem at all, but I'm not gonna let people in mass if I don't know where to give them a bed. And it's been months after each other. It has been quiet here for a few months now, but it has been madness for months to give everyone bed, bath and bread that came here via an illegal migration route and applied for asylum here. I do not know where you sometimes come from, but I honestly do not think there is any support for this for the Belgian people, although of course I can always be mistaken. Next, it is not my fault, it is not my services, it is not my administration and it is not UNHCR, but the fact that we have not completed our pledge for 2015 is purely due to operational difficulties with the countries of origin. I have already answered several questions here in Parliament. There are still questions on the agenda and I will be happy to answer them again next week or in two weeks. The engagements remain. Delay is not a set-off and therefore the commitments remain. Business is slow. I even asked the Netherlands if I could take over some of them from Greece and Turkey, but they said they would not. Why couldn't it be with us sooner? We had no dossiers ready for Turkey, because we are dealing with resettlement from Lebanon, and I have now decided for the first time to do so from Turkey. Whether a Syrian is in a refugee camp in Lebanon or Turkey is not particularly relevant. On 25 May, the first 20 people arrive, which is within two weeks. It couldn't have come from Greece sooner, because the Greeks didn't approve. For us, these files have been fine for weeks, but according to the Greek authorities, the papers were not yet in order. So you must turn to the Greek authorities. So here I say that I want to do something, but that I'm not actually doing anything, that's the truth, that's a lot of violence. In doing so, you show very little respect for my staff, the administration and the people of UNHCR who are working day and night to put relocation and resolution in order. I am sure that if you hear any other signals from the organisations involved, you will be the first to question me on this. I'd probably have been interrogated by now. It's not right to say that. We are doing everything we can to get the people in here, to help them and to take them in, but that must be in order and good for the countries concerned and for the international NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, I am just looking at the 2014 and 2015 figures on resettlement from the camps. Only one in three of the number of resettlements you have promised has been carried out. Of course, you can keep looking for excuses, but at some point that stops. In addition, the numbers are particularly low: 550, 250, 200. What numbers are those, anyway? We call for a realistic but humane approach. If you're saying you can't do it for the shelters, why are you closing down shelters already? Why are you closing down shelters now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u93	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u94	Yes, you did. You have said that you are working on an exercise to reduce the number of shelters in our country. You'll have to explain to me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u95	...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u96	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that this is a difficult debate for you, but it would be nice if you would let me speak. You intend to reduce the number of reception places in our country because the asylum influx is decreasing. Perhaps it would be wise to take into account what you yourself say, namely that we still have to resettle people from the refugee camps from Greece. You have already made the mistake of reducing the number of shelters in our country far too quickly. Shall we make that mistake again? What will you say in a year's time? That resettlement is no longer possible because of the lack of shelters? You have just said that we cannot live up to our commitments on resettlement because of too much asylum influx. That's what you said. So that means you're making the same mistake. In a year's time, I will ask you what happened to the resettlement, and you will again apologise for the absence of an asylum influx, while you now intend to reduce the number of places of refuge. Totally premature. It is indeed a question of legal migratory flows, Mr Secretary of State, but it is realistic, not for millions of people. However, an offer must be created, which exceeds at least 250 Syrian refugees from Turkey for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u97	Mr De Vriendt, sometimes we agree, but you must remain intellectually honest. I do not have to defend the Secretary of State, but he just said that it was extremely difficult to create places between September and December. That was a fact. It wasn't obvious because there was a massive influx. Last year we had to cover almost 40 000 people in total. That was a lot, more than a doubling compared to the year before. It goes without saying that the number of places for a piece can be reduced, since the inflow has decreased. However, we have all advocated, majority and opposition, that we do so with caution and that there are sufficient buffer points to be kept, and I remember that from a previous committee meeting in order to cope with a possible slight or stronger increase. We must live up to the resettlement. Last year it was about 550 people, but only part of it was carried out. For this year, 550 people are also involved. That brings the number to 800.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u98	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u99	This year we still have 550 people to resettle, in addition to the places that were not filled in last year. I also call for us to do what we have agreed. I have heard the Secretary of State say that he is prepared to do so, and even more so, when the influx for a piece is under control and when we see that all the countries in Europe are taking on their responsibilities. It is now seen that some countries have to do a great deal, such as Sweden with 16 refugees per 1 000 inhabitants and Belgium with 3 per 1 000 inhabitants, and that some countries are doing almost nothing. Europe must also act in this regard. We will have to live up to the resettlement we have promised. You will find in me a partner to continue to argue for that. Nor have I heard you say that you will not, Mr Secretary of State. Here's what I want to ask you. If you see that it is difficult for a particular country, such as now the 200 for Turkey, then if I were in your place, but you have to decide for yourself, I would be negotiating again with countries like Lebanon. That makes more sense. It doesn't matter if the Syrians are from Lebanon or Turkey, if you are relocating. The conditions in Lebanon are not much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u100	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u101	I am simply saying that you should not sit down if you see that Turkey is not cooperating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u102	They'll cooperate. It just takes a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u103	If you see that things are going badly, then I would suggest going back to the other countries, such as Lebanon, where things were apparently going well in the past. Of course, I am not saying that you should not take the 200 from Turkey, but there are still many. You will have to resettle a total of 800 people this year, not all Syrians, but a large part. In the meantime, you can work perfectly with a country like Lebanon to resettle people from there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u104	Mr President, despite the fact that Turkey clearly does not respect the agreement, the Secretary of State is not concerned about it. Does Turkey not comply with the rules of the European Union? We don't care! The plan is applied, regardless of people's living conditions, but no matter! I also note that the Secretary of State is reluctant to accept thousands of refugees in Belgium, while Turkey can host millions of refugees without any problems. It's quite incomprehensible! Finally, with regard to the causes of the influx of refugees – namely, poverty in the world and wars – I observe that this government pursues a war policy by sending F-16s. That's why there's an influx of refugees. Under this government, development aid has never been so weak. Therefore, believing that we are going to solve the problems is very utopian. The refugee problem will continue to grow in the coming years. The only solutions presented are provisional, but we know that the Turkish situation is going to be explosive and that this agreement is not on the road. So we're preparing tomorrow's problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic409x.u105	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart's 9868 is converted into a written question, as has already been mentioned. Debates of the European Parliament 10131 by Mrs Lanjri is also converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 10294 by Mrs Pas, converted into a written question, as well as Question No Question No 10669, by Mr Metsu: Question No 10708 by Mrs Temmerman 10743 by Mr Metsu, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
