ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u2	I have received an order motion from Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet. I read them out: 'In view of the Prime Minister's statement, in view of the uncertainty about ARCO and timing of fiscal reforms, the plenary asked the Prime Minister to clarify these two points before the start of the debate on his State of the Union, in function of a proper and rich debate'. Mr Calvo, you have the floor for an explanation of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u3	Mr President, we are pleased with the good reception. Anyway, we met today to talk about the Prime Minister's State of the Union and to know whether there is confidence in this team and its captain. Yesterday it was already clear that a very important question remained unanswered during the State of the Union, in particular the question of fiscal reforms: when and how will there be a fair contribution from the greatest assets? Today I read Minister Peeters in the newspaper and I quote: "The Prime Minister did not understand that an added value tax for CD&V was really important." That's a special way to start this day. Moreover, there is now also uncertainty about ARCO, and this is the real reason for our order motion. The Prime Minister stated explicitly in his statement that there would be a solution for the ARCO coordinators this year, and then today we read in the newspaper that CD&V and the N-VA have a completely different view on this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group likes the parliamentary debate, but would like it to be correct, hygienic and based on complete information. It would be strange not to know what the answer to those two important questions is. Mr Prime Minister, can you clarify these two points before the start of the debate? It would be very strange not to do that. If you do not take the floor, we are heading for a bizarre debate on a virtual political agreement, on a virtual majority on two unanswered questions, and that would be very unfortunate. I look forward to your explanation. Especially after the statement by a number of Deputy Prime Ministers, that seems to me to be particularly logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u4	Mr. President, thank you. The logic and tradition of parliamentary debates would like, in the context of exchanges, to be able, through the reply, to give you all the information relevant to the questions asked. However, I have no difficulty in replying immediately to the point just raised, if it can make it possible to spend a serene day. What's the situation? In the Government's first statement in this rostrum, there was certainly a bit of a hustle and bustle on that day. That is why not everyone has been able to pay sufficient attention to me; that being said with a smile, of course. We therefore indicate the willingness of the government, like others before it, to find a solution in the ARCO case. We even had the ambition to resolve this issue in the course of 2015, after the liquidation. The new element of recent days is the liquidation. That is an important element. I am very transparent and clear: in recent days we have spoken little about ARCO in the government. We only confirmed our commitments from the start of the government. The will is to find a solution for ARCO, to work on it technically in the coming days, in order to examine any possible solution, both legally and financially. What did I say in the gallery? Our goal is to make this solution operational in the course of 2017. No agreement has been reached within the government on the modalities of this decision, as technical work is needed. We must take account of European constraints. There is also the question of fine tuning in order to resolve this question. The intention is to make a decision in the coming weeks and months and to make it operational in 2017. It's extremely clear. I have no doubt that this answer will allow calm, relaxed, pleasant discussions throughout the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u5	I assume, Mr Calvo, that your motion will lapse, because we will be able to raise the issue in the course of the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u6	Did you really think that was an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u7	Mr Calvo, may I say something? Thank you very much. We shall return to this during the debates. In addition, following the general debates, there are thematic debates in which this can also be discussed. If the Members of Parliament ask, we will even make a separate chapter out of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u8	I am surprised that you regard this as an answer to the question put. Prime Minister, I note that you need a lot of words to say that there is actually no agreement yet. You don't have to put that in the hands of the opposition. It is your own majority parties that are causing panic and confusion about two important dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u9	Mr Calvo, that's for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u10	It is about the fair contribution of the greatest capabilities and about ARCO. You say you will develop a solution for ARCO. I read today from the N-VA that, until Europe is clear on the matter, nothing can happen at all and nothing will move. It is your majority that leads to uncertainty. Nor is there any euro in the budgetary table. For the time being, the conclusion is that neither an added value tax nor a solution for the co-operatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u11	Then the incident is closed. (Mr Nollet asked for the floor) Mr. Nollet, I can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u12	Mr President, I just want to know whether we have received the documents sent to Europe. Yesterday, you announced that we would receive them at the very moment when the Prime Minister would send them. They were supposed to arrive in Europe yesterday. We were told they were ready to be sent, but we haven't got them yet. We must therefore start a parliamentary debate without having the tables of the figures as they are sent to Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u13	Mr President, for the sake of clarity of the debates, the European guideline did indeed fall on 15 October. Working groups were convened in September, not especially for Belgium - I must tell you - but for the whole of the European Union. Since October 15th fell on a Saturday, the deadline is today. We will therefore send the Draft Budgetary Plans (DBPs) as agreed today to Europe and at the same time to Parliament, as we have committed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u14	Mr Nollet, you will receive this information as soon as Parliament obtains it. That's quite clear. When they are forwarded to the European Commission, they will arrive at the same time in Parliament and we will be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u15	The next item is the debate on the government statement. The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. I call Mr Peter De Roover. Mr Peter De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u16	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk very much about the results of the discussions and what was presented here yesterday by the Prime Minister in the light of the ambition of this government. This government wanted to be a reform government. It depends on the measure used for this purpose. However, when I go over the list, I note that every quarter since the start of the government there has been an increase in the number of jobs. Unemployment is falling. The number of starters is increasing. Bankruptcies have reached an historic minimum. Private investment has risen sharply. In pension legislation and in the labour market, we have implemented strong reforms. The tax burden has fallen, we have to say that this reduction should be even more explicit for us. The wage handicap compared with 1996 has been largely eliminated over two years. We have had an impressive tax shift, the biggest tax reform since 1963 according to experts. The purchasing power of the population has increased. In short, when I confine myself only to the socio-economic constraints, after all, there is also the security policy, asylum and migration, justice and so on, the reform agenda to this day is impressive, although I repeat that it may of course always be more for my group. We have paid a price for this ambition and those results. We must not hide that either. That price is in the budget. We have not chosen easy solutions, which have been adopted in the past. This means that when a number of efforts are made, at the end of the story in 2016, we find that we are running a very difficult year on budget terms. The year 2016 has therefore been a very difficult year. Firstly, there is the context of the constitutional framework of this country, which must nevertheless be seen as a driver of costs. In this respect, unfortunately, we have to stick to the status quo today. Moreover, there is an ever-increasing ageing wave, with a high cost, associated with it. There have also been the very sad terrorist attacks in 2016. We must also wait and see what the consequences will be of the Brexit's unexpected decision. The latter is, of course, something that is differently estimated by different groups. The future will tell us. If we are in for many hours of debate today, I would like to introduce myself to the philosopher Kees Kraaijeveld. He recently wrote a very interesting contribution in De Volkskrant which at first sight has nothing to do with what is on the table here today, but Kees Kraaijeveld notes that when we talk about our great western values, we rarely mention the separation of church and state, equality between men and women, freedom of expression and the search for truth. Well, says Kraaijeveld, the search for the truth is an extremely important element for us and for us of those so-called Western values. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that I do not believe in the truth with a great W, or in the sacred or less sacred book in which all the solutions to all problems can be found. I believe that the doubt about the great truth is also an important Western value. The small truths, where we can distinguish between right and wrong, and where we are able to falsify, must be at the basis of the debates we are going to have today. Allow me to put forward a very small truth, a formula consisting of three elements. If expenditure exceeds revenue, there is a deficit. I do not think one should have studied higher economics to know that this is a basic fact. The messing with one of the three unknowns has immediate consequences for at least one of the other two unknowns. The fact that, against the very difficult budgetary background, this government needed a little more time than was intended to pronounce a State of the Union, I also refer to the philosopher Johan Cruyff, whom I loved, because this disadvantage has benefited from it. Both Tuesday and Thursday, we, by the majority, have shown the appropriate restraint in a debate on a State of the Union that was not there. However, the opposition had prepared a number of speeches and had to bring them to any price here. We have listened to this, because it is never known that there would be an interesting thought from the statements made by that opposition. We stand before an open mind and want to take any useful suggestion with us. I'm going back to that very simple exercise of spending minus revenue. If expenditure is greater, then there is a deficit. What have I learned from the opposition speeches? First of all, they're unisono against a deficit. They find it reprehensible to submit a budget which is not in balance. That immediately limits our options, my friends, because there were three strangers and one of them apparently has to end at least zero. By definition, then, we come from revenue or expenditure. From the numerous statements made by the opposition, I have also understood that all the savings that have been put forward clash with harsh criticism on their part, and I have not known them to put forward any alternative. I did not need four years of economics to establish that if one is against a deficit and one refuses to reduce government expenditure, then one is going to have to increase revenue, which is a mathematical reality. That means only one thing: the opposition seeks the solution only in increasing taxes. That's a matter of basic arithmetic. There is no other solution that resounds from the opposition's mouths.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u17	Mr Hedebouw, you have the floor for an interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that interruptions are addressed to the speaker and that they can never last more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u18	Mr De Roover, you do basic mathematics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u19	Mathematics, even.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u20	I find it a bit strange, because there was a discussion within the majority about the possibility of increasing the state's budget by getting some money from those who have money, with the big assets in Belgium. I had heard that the N-VA agreed to even support a measure that would only affect the richest 1%. There was consensus on that. That is also a mathematical possibility to find money. I also heard about the added value tax, also a tax on the large assets. Why does the N-VA keep refusing to get the money where it is and do you only want to look for the money with young people and social security? Can you explain that? Why is the N-VA of the working Fleming so against the fact that the richest 1% would contribute a little?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u21	Mr Hedebouw, I am very pleased that you confirm my words here immediately, namely that you are only looking for a solution in terms of increased income, in terms of increasing taxes. That is quite hallucinating if we know that we already have a 54 percent government seizure in this country. If we had a government seizure of 40%, I am just saying, that might be an option. But in the case of that 54 %, which is 8% to 9% more than countries like the Netherlands or Germany, it is, of course, excessive to even give the impression that by increasing the percentage we could solve the problems of this country. In order to give that story a little credibility, a kind of fairy tale is put forward. From afar it looks a bit like the fairy tales of Grimm or Andersen. The basis of that fairy tale is here on paper, but your argument is appropriate to make the rich pay for the crisis. The fairy tale goes like this. Somewhere in a large forest lies a treasure chest buried with lots of gold. Red Riding Hood is looking for that treasure, but angry Swedish wolves are blocking her way because they want to avoid the free solution being pulled out on behalf of greedy minions. Dear friends, that fairy tale is a lie that is used to do down-to-earth populism. The free bin of money is of course nowhere. That fairy tale even threatens to become a horror story when it actually leads to the suggestion that we should increase the 54% of government property. Last week I had to observe, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition language, at least your suggestions or, more precisely, the lack of them in solving the problem we are facing, is about as useful as a compass on the North Pole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u22	Mr De Roover, I understand your interest in the opposition's programme. That is indeed a more interesting, pleasant and warmer programme than the budget. However, I would like to assist you in your search through the forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u23	That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u24	By the way, the tonality of your intervention surprises me. Indeed, if a large state-bearing party representing a third of the Flemish voters comes here to tell a fairy tale, then that sounds to a lot of fellow countrymen. There is one misunderstanding that I want to counter immediately, namely that the opposition, or my group, would like to win the World Tax Championship. We would always like more taxes. Well, I'd be happy to get rid of that misunderstanding right away. And maybe it'll save you some pages of your fairy tale. What our group does want to win is the European Championship fair, simple and green taxes. That is the focus of the debate. Mr De Roover, you really do not have any credibility when it comes to taxes, to saving ordinary people and to including people who work. You started this legislature with an index jump, which means a tax on people who work, and you have tackled the income of part-time workers considerably. Today, you come to Parliament with a budget that is paid by young people, by my generation, who stick their necks out to work more. You are defending a project here today in which employees' wages will be blocked for years. So, if anyone keeps their mouths shut about taxes on ordinary people's income, it's your group, and this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u25	Mr De Roover, on the basis of what the previous speaker said, I would point out that your speech, as if the opposition were only dreaming of extra taxes and as if you were an advocate of lower taxes, is not correct. We cannot ignore the fact that this budget once again contains a number of important income lowering taxes. What bothers me most is your denigrating story about the opposition who wanted to get something said last week, while the majority had the great wisdom to say nothing. What happened last week, Mr. De Roover? You kept quiet here, but outside the newspaper columns were too small for you, the interviews on TV and radio were too small, to explain that CD&V absolutely wanted to introduce the added value tax, that your party absolutely wanted to introduce the corporate tax reduction and that the liberals absolutely wanted to activate the savings. I can still see Mr Dewael's pathetic speech, which increased and said that it is important for Open Vld that the savings be activated. Outside, you advocated everything, including tax increases, but you kept quiet inside. You can say anything, but we've done our job. You say everything outside these walls, but when we look at the outcome today, we see nothing in the budget of these three measures, which have been so strongly advocated. So be a little honest, even in the parliamentary debate in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u26	Mr De Roover, I don't know who to believe anymore. You spoke of 54 % tax burden, while yesterday the Prime Minister talked about a decrease of 37.1 % to 36.6 %. So you need to reach a bit of an agreement in terms of numbers, propaganda and so on. Mr De Roover, you need to be careful. To the point, you're not answering my question. You're talking about the employees here. I'm not talking about them, I'm talking about the richest 1%. That's just taboo here. Colleagues of CD&V, I am addressing you, it is felt that the study of an added value tax will only come within two years. We are talking about the richest 1%, not the employees, who pay, but the richest 1%. There is a real taboo in this government. The richest 1% today owns a fortune of 420 billion. Well, go get the money there. I suggest that we do a study on this. The Labour Party wants to help in this; we have some know-how in this area. We can help the government to contribute that richest 1% a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u27	Mr Hedebouw, I am not surprised that you have not mastered the basic principles of the economy. And if you mix up certain percentages that have absolutely nothing to do with each other a little flat floor, then I fear an answer from me will not help you. I am expecting a surprisingly exciting day here, because I hear from the two fellow Members that they are going to make proposals today, apparently, where there can be meaningful savings. Mr Calvo, it is a pity that you missed that opportunity last week to do so. Apparently, that was a meaningless wordbox at the time. We welcome the fact that we will be very pleased to hear from you where you want to reduce the government deficit in a different way than by increasing taxes. I also note, in passing, Mr Calvo, that you would prefer young people with very high wages to have no work than those with realistic wages. That is a choice that is absolutely not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u28	Mr De Roover, I did not intend to interrupt much, but I really cannot accept this. It is easy to talk about young people from the chair, that is easy for all of us, because we should not worry at the end of the month. But if you dare say that young people with a minimum wage have a realistic perspective, then talk a little more to those young people who can't pay their rent, who worry, who stumble from temporary job to temporary job. That's their reality. I do not understand your derogatory attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u29	Mr Calvo, I've worked before. For 30 years, I've done nothing but talk to young people. Those young people wanted to work, they wanted a job. They did not want a pseudo-defense of young people to come down to dreaming of high wages without a job. They ask for a job and this government can offer them that, unlike your fairy tales.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u30	Mr De Roover, I have no doubt that you have ever worked. I hope everyone who sits here has ever worked. You do, however, seem to have doubts about that. That's a statement on your behalf. From young people at the beginning of their careers, at the beginning of their adult lives, you say that, at a reduction in the minimum wage, they are lucky to have a job. I never thought the N-VA would push it this far. You say here that young people can be happy with a bummer, less than the minimum wage. I think that's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u31	Mrs. Temmerman, your intervention reminds me of an old joke that goes as follows. In the Soviet Union, people were told to have good news and bad news. The good news is the vegetables are very cheap. The bad news is there are no vegetables. That's actually the essence of what you're saying. The good news is, whoever has a job has a high paycheck. The bad news is you don't make sure jobs are created. If that is good news for young people, then I have a completely different opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u32	(...) but a tax on capital, that apparently doesn't come through.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u33	Mrs. Temmerman, once again you fall into the trap I set open. You keep talking about new income. Once again, you will only see the solution in the introduction of new taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u35	All your discourse, Mrs. Temmerman, is about nothing else. In the course of the day, I would like to ask all the groups a very simple question, for which one should not have studied a higher economy. If we are looking for solutions to the budget deficit, do you want a yes or no increase in public debt? Mr. Hedebouw, you can visit Wikipedia to see what public property means. I would ask each group to answer the question of whether we want to resolve the government deficit by increasing the public debt or by not increasing it. If your answer is that it should not increase, you will have restrictions to which your discourse will have to adapt. As far as we are concerned, we are looking for solutions within a public debt of 54% and, by the way, preferably by reducing the murderous presence of the government in our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u36	Mr De Roover, you who love teaching so much and teach everyone, let me ask you a question. Did you know that among socialists, the government's seizure fell for years, when socialists were part of the government? It has risen again as a result of the crisis in 2008. For that, Mr De Roover, the government's seizure has fallen every time among socialists!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u37	Mr De Roover, I see that you are constantly avoiding the fundamental discussion. If you ask whether the population is for or against increasing the tax burden on the richest, since this is today's debate, know that most surveys indicate that about 80% of the population is in favour. Within the N-VA electorate, 71% of the people are in favour of capital taxation. If you wonder if, politically, it is useful to increase the tax burden on the richest, the answer is yes. It is clear to the PTB, and of common sense in the context of today's crisis. What you're doing today is cutting spending for the poorest. We see this at the youth level, and I completely join my ecologist and socialist colleagues: you will once again reach out to young people and social recipients, and save the richest. The debate, Mr De Wever, sorry, Mr De Roover, which you are refusing today, is as follows: are we going to impose a little more on the rich over the next two years or not? Answer honestly no, and your majority partners whose CD&V will be fixed. Be honest today and say that you have no will to go get the money where it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u38	I have to admit that when making such a speech, people in Parliament are usually not very ambitious, because everyone is stuck in their own opinions. However, I was pleasantly surprised by Mrs Temmerman's move. Mrs. Temmerman, I understand that you are therefore an ally to reduce the government's seizure. We'll write that down. We are also waiting for useful and interesting suggestions. I ask what you are suggesting, and you will be given an extensive opportunity to make a whole series of proposals here, which we will study with great interest. You're gonna make a lot of proposals to bring down that government asset. I'm counting on every group to put their money in the bag as well. In any case, we are very pleased that the government has already begun to do so in the last two years. We have not received much help from the opposition camp, but that can of course change today. In any case, today, with the government, we have put in place a catch-up movement which will enable us to resume the European path, which is an effort, without any intervention on purchasing power, which will help to reduce debt by 1.2 percent of GDP. This is an extremely important step for us. For that one, in our opinion, has been found good mix. Savings are always painful. There is always someone who has to pay the bill for savings. There is also always a lobby group that defends this. That is why we are firmly convinced that we have found a good distribution in the efforts that the government will be calling for. By the way, there are also power components, power gains components. The fight against tax fraud is also explicitly mentioned in this report. At the same time, of course, we are very pleased that the speculative tax will disappear. In addition, an important effort is being made in terms of savings. To quote a good colleague from the government: "Not the axe was used, but the scalpel." In addition, we are facing a problem with public spending, with an annual increase in pension expenditure of EUR 1.5 billion due to an ageing population and an annual increase in healthcare costs of EUR 1 billion under unchanged policies. That is why we strongly support the smart measures that are now in the pipeline and which are in line with previous reform measures. In the health care sector, this will be discussed later in the debates on the specific themes of the programme, for example, patients will be spared. We are making use of what has already been widely established by experts, namely that savings are possible in health care, without having to affect the quality of health care. That's very important. However, I would like to express my satisfaction with the phrase in the Prime Minister's statement and in the government's texts that parliamentary pensions will rightly go the way of the pensions of all workers in this country. Over the last few weeks, the impression has been given that we would not be able to do the job of budgetary effort. I suspect that all critics will have to swallow that for a while now too in this government. Moreover, we maintain our structural reform dynamics. You all know how frustrated the left side is that we have been able to activate tens of thousands of people since the Michael administration. Those tens of thousands of people who became self-reliant do so in the private sector. Under Di Rupo, we had a drop of thousands of jobs in the private sector. Today, the Michael administration has the counter at 70 000 new jobs. And we continue on that path. Seventy thousand people, seventy thousand families, will thus be able to participate actively in economic activities. Not only do they receive a higher wage than a benefit, but they are also able to support our social security. We'll continue with that plan. We are certainly still talking about this in the course of the day. I am thinking of flexibility in the labour market, the measures to ensure that the wage handicap with abroad does not increase again. The e-commerce is still being discussed here today. There are the growth jobs, with which Mr Calvo has a problem, but which we strongly support. All of them are elements that ensure that the reform train does not stop at all. That is of the utmost importance for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u39	Since Mr De Roover is looking for small truths, I would like to go over some with him. Economic development in our country has been below the European average for the first time since 2007. The same applies to job creation. In the second quarter of 2016, there are only two countries that are doing worse in that area than our country. Your pooch with 70 000 jobs is almost what the Planning Bureau predicted in 2013 for 2015 and 2016 before Michel's actions. These measures have really not done that much. Far too little. In terms of effectiveness, there is only one country that is doing worse. The rate of activity has decreased since the government took office. Indeed, fewer people receive benefits. However, this has not to do with the fact that there are so many more people working, but with your antisocial measures pushing people from a benefit towards the OCMW, with the last figure in the context of small but important truths, a historical record number of wagers. These are small truths, as you call them, Mr De Roover, but these are big problems, so there is really no need for euphoria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u40	You can make up all sorts of stories about this, but the hard fact that there were never more jobs in the private sector than today is and remains something that we are very proud of. Mr Calvo, I assume you know that growth in the past has been driven by government jobs and government interventions. We didn't make that choice. This means that, in the long term, we will be less dependent on what is undoubtedly tax money at the end of the story. You are against shortages and you are quite right. Boosting the public economy means knocking every euro out of the pockets of the citizens. There's no other way. As part of the reform agenda, we continue to invest in security policy, asylum and migration, justice and security services. Our government continues to follow the path it has set out. This requires an effort that is of the utmost importance in the light of current developments. Moreover, there is even more ambition in the area of taxation than what is already on the table. On behalf of my group, I would like to say that, in whatever form, that ambition must be based on four pillars. The first pillar is the pillar of justice. Our policy is aimed at this, hence the lower incomes and the middle class are the biggest winners of our policy. In addition to justice, there is the economic stimulus. The measures that are being taken must make the economy stronger and better. A third pillar is simplification, transparency. You know that complicated legislation only benefits expensive advisers and fiscalists. The last important pillar for any intervention that deals with tax reforms is budget neutrality. That's the difference with the opposition. When they put the discussions on what they call a fair tax in a budget debate, this must yield money. We are putting that in a reform agenda. That is a crucial difference, because budget neutrality means that these interventions should not cost the government anything, but at the same time they should not yield anything to the government either. Company tax is the most advanced in this respect. It meets those four criteria. I would like to point out once again in this Chamber that the reform of corporate taxation is also a very important component of justice. Ensuring that young, small and medium-sized enterprises can compete in a normal, equal field, including taxation, with companies and multinationals is a justice requirement for us. In the past, also with the cooperation of opposition parties, a tax court has been established in which a cat no longer finds its young, and years later it was necessary to learn from Europe that certain laws that were adopted were suddenly no longer applicable and even demanding that this government should give its approval to companies that have followed laws in the past. If we can get rid of that coffin, then we have indeed implemented a fair agenda. That's clear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u41	Mr De Roover, you repeat what we have heard in the media over the past few days and weeks and what has apparently helped to create a crisis in the government, namely your plea for reduced corporate tax. You say that here, but it slipped my mind. Is that in the budget or not? Perhaps you are talking about something else, but I understand that it is not possible, because of the fact that certain coalition partners feared that the financial compensation was not good, that there would be some kind of derailment of the budget, should you implement your legitimate demand, as you call it, today. My question is therefore very clear. What you have been advocating for the last five minutes, the reduction in corporation tax, is that in the budget or not? If so, is the proposal you are talking about budget neutral or not? I would like to know the answer to that without having to dive into the newspaper's comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u42	Mr Bonte, your question is of course a rhetorical one. You know it's not in there. I have also said, however, that you have to listen to what I have said, that we still have additional ambitions for the future, that in addition to the important reforms that we have knocked off, there are still a number of important reforms in the pan. I have said here what conditions these reforms must meet for our group. These reforms must take place within four pillars, and this applies to any reform that is being implemented, for example, in taxation. If, for example, we are thinking of abilities, there is obviously room for a better, more just..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are absolutely asking for this, provided that the criteria I have put forward are met. We are at the forefront of the European platoon today, even in terms of capabilities, contrary to what the opposition is trying to tell us. I know the ambition of this government, and that is not to end up in the top 3 in every table on taxation. That is not our ambition and we do not want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u43	Mr De Roover, you speak of small and great truths and fairy tales. You say that we are also the champion in the burden of capabilities. The conclusion of the Fact Check van deredactie.be is that Belgium is one of the countries where the capital is almost not taxed. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but I am not saying that. Mr President, I will inform you of the website so that you can pass it on to my fellow Members. You can also just google to "Fact Check Capital," Mr. De Roover. If you google that, you will immediately receive the Fact Check of the editor.be, which clearly shows that a lot of assets are not taxed in Belgium and that we are one of the third last countries when it comes to the taxation of assets. With this, I give the little truth her rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, if a fact checker is wrongly quoted, it will of course become a fact-seeker, which is quite obvious. You seem to be swinging power taxes and capital gains taxes. You don't make any distinctions between those things. Apparently, you are missing the fact that we are in fifth place in terms of capital gains and capital gains, as a percentage of GDP, and as a percentage of the income of property owners halfway in Europe's score. I repeat, we do not intend to be in the top 3 of taxation everywhere. As far as this capital charge is concerned, we are all at a normal European level. I refer, for example, to the property tax on inheritances; you will know that it is often huge, Mrs Temmerman, and of course it must also be included in the account. When we look at it as a whole, we are absolutely at a normal European level. Whether or not the composition can be revisited is a debate that we absolutely want to have within the four pillars that I have put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u45	Mr De Roover, as you say that I am wrongly quoting it, I will quote it literally. It is true that it is about wealth income. I quote the editor.be: 'As far as taxing an income from wealth is concerned, our country is dangling at the tail of the OECD countries. An OECD report from 2013 showed that Belgium is at the very last place for taxing added value on shares and real estate. In our country dividends and interest on bonds are also taxed a lot lighter than the OECD average. For this reason, the High Council of Finance and the OECD advocate a tax shift from labour to capital gains. Ladies and gentlemen, that is something this government has still not done, despite a large tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u46	Mrs Temmerman, this is a slightly too delicate matter to discuss in such an unsophisticated manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u48	We shall be able to read it in the report, Mr Van der Maelen. Within the minute there is talk about capital gains, then capital gains and then the surplus value on shares. These are three totally different concepts, which are easily thrown together by you. Mrs. Temmerman, before you intervene in these matters, you really need to do your homework. [[Rumor]] Mr Van der Maelen, contrary to what you think, the argumental power of your words does not increase directly in proportion to the decibels. If you quote the Supreme Court of Finance, you will want to do so in its entirety. I repeat what I have said here, because apparently it does not reach everyone yet. With regard to the totality of taxes on assets, capital gains and the like, we are in Europe, depending on the measurement, in the front of the peloton or, if one considers it as a percentage of the capabilities, in the middle of the peloton. I repeat that in our country the taxes on wealth, including through gift and inheritance taxes, are particularly high compared to other countries. You take that away from the reasoning, so that your story might be correct. Facts do matter, Mrs. Temmerman, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u49	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u50	I will conclude, Mr President. This is a reform government, which moreover...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u51	Since otherwise an important subject is likely to be snowed under, I would like to talk about corporate taxation. We will certainly come back to power later. Mr De Roover, you know that our group strongly supports a fairer and simpler corporate tax. You say that all the proposals circulating are waterproof and budget-neutral. They would be a good thing for our SMEs. That sounds like music to the ears, but we can't support that. Mr Peeters had the openness to share his proposal on the added value tax with Parliament and public opinion, after which there was a debate. Do you think, along with me, that it would be interesting to share the proposals that are circulating on corporation tax, so that we can tackle this important yard together? I wanted to inform you of this, as you seem to agree with me that we should take steps as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u52	Mr De Roover, I think you're right. I agree with you that we need to put things together. One tax is not another. Indeed, there are different taxes on capital: taxes on capital gains, taxes on assets, taxes on property income. All these things are different. You're right. But then let's review them! That's the point. I think your first problem is to look at things in a global way. How should the question be asked? In the following way: Is the entire population affected, or are the richest affected, for such a tax? That's a pretty important question. You completely ignore that. Let us review these different taxes. There's the furniture discount. You raised it up to 30%. This is a typical unfair tax, since, regardless of income, everyone pays 30% of the tax on furniture. A small pensioner with a very small pension will pay 30%. A higher income will pay the same 30%. The taxation of capital gains does not exist, it is clear. Wealth tax does not exist. The richest of them escape completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u53	Conclude, Mr. Van Hees! Interruptions are limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u54	There are several taxes. As far as inheritance rights are concerned, it is known that the richest have many techniques to avoid paying them. It is the simple workers who pay inheritance taxes in this country. In total, of these four types of taxes, the richest are exempt from most taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u55	Mr President, I am somewhat hindered in my decision, but I would like to respond in three points. Firstly, Mr Van Hees and the rest of the left, your wealth tax actually amounts to a we-hunting-the-rich-out-tax. This is not only an economic bad thing, such a tax will not benefit us either. We do take this reality into account. Secondly, today I am the first speaker, so we will be able to see many more speeches. I would ask every speaker here to tell us clearly whether he or she intends to take fiscal measures within the framework of a budgetary operation involving an increase in taxes, or whether he or she intends to take these measures within the framework of a possible redeployment of taxes. That distinction is crucial. Those who do not create clarity are guilty of debate pollution. That much is clear. Thirdly, Mr Calvo, you will agree with me that documents in the process between the very first idea and the completion will be made more and more public. There can be different sentiments about that. As soon as the government has finally decided on any measure, you will therefore be informed in detail by the Court of Justice. The day you join a government, you will even be informed a little earlier, because then you will be able to participate in the elaboration of the compromise. I think that is a clear and parliamentary correct answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u56	Mr De Roover, that is a very formalistic answer to my question. I'm not gonna make peace with that either. Your own Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jambon, said that the work of Mr Johann was finished. You state here that the measures developed and decided are budget-neutral. I therefore believe that we should have access to it. I think that's very important. I also believe that our SMEs deserve that perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u58	Mr Jambon, I think that the Chamber, with the committee responsible, and perhaps even the Court of Auditors, should be able to check it. After all the frenzies of Minister Johan Van Overtveldt, it is only natural that people want to be sure that the bill is right. Mr De Roover, you said yourself that it is done. That is why I ask you to put that on the table. Minister Peeters has had the courage, but he has received a lot of criticism for that. You were standing by with a bazooka to shoot off his proposal. Well, I ask of you the same courage as Minister Peeters, but on corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u59	Mr President, I will conclude, as requested by you. If the opposition is not prepared to leave the flattened paths, then we would very much like to let them wander on and off. It will make the journey a little easier for them, but it will not prevent us from approving all of this. After all, we assume that it is the highest time that we take steps towards the 21st century, and that is what is happening here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u60	Before we speak to Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to say that we will suspend this meeting at around 1 p.m. Nous reprendrons nos travaux à 14 h 00 pour aller jusqu'au finish, with the exception of a few technical breaks we need to reset the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u61	Mr President, Mr De Roover, at the beginning of your speech we were surprised to hear you respond to the opposition that has not yet spoken. But it is true that in terms of dubious and disturbing statements, you have done very well in recent times. Prime Minister, do you know who said, "There are days when I think I'm going to die from an overdose of self-satisfaction"? Your speech yesterday reminded me of a sentence from Salvatore Dali: "We are the most beautiful; we are the strongest; everything is fine!" That was embarrassing! I will not go back to all the anti-social measures that you have imposed on this country for the last two years: index jumps, taxes on consumption, increases in the price of electricity, the drying up of public services, pensions at 67 years. I would like to take this opportunity to pay special tribute to all workers and especially to single women with children who work part-time and receive an allowance to avoid an employment trap. These women accept work because it allows them to benefit from an additional income, rather than unemployment. This is the virtue of the employment trap. They are very often part of very low-wage workers. In any case, they are included in all poverty statistics. Like all of us, you meet them most of the time, especially when we go shopping. On 1 January, Prime Minister, those who have been receiving this allowance for two years will lose half of their employment support. These women who receive a small wage will lose nearly 200 to 500 euros per month. What do you think they felt by listening to Mandela, listening to you say that you wanted to overcome poverty and allow everyone to live in dignity? As far as I'm concerned, it's the anger I've felt for these tens of thousands of women. The anger is also that of these workers who have been laid off in this dark month of September. At a time when Caterpillar is announcing the closure of its Charleroi site and the dismissal of 2,200 people, at a time when ING is announcing the abolition of more than 3,000 jobs, at the time of the announcements of AXA, IBM and others, at a time when workers are afraid of their future and wondering if they are not the next victims of a stock exchange dismissal, saying that everything is fine, that the situation in Belgium is improving, that many jobs have been created, know that this has been felt by these workers as a real slap. You see, what makes our societies strong is the workers, not the shareholders. It is the courage of all these men, women and families who, day after day, are making considerable efforts to ensure that their business and our economy are as healthy as possible. It is therefore the workers who must be the focus of our attention, and yet, Mr Michel, this is not the way your government has chosen. Rather than preventing new social tragedies from happening, rather than preventing redundancies, for example, your government has decided to attack workers over and over again. And there are many examples. After a first index jump last year, you again tackle wages by amending the 1996 law. You accept that shareholders – we've just talked about it – make millions or even billions of capital gains without any tax. You don't want us to tax the richest. On the other hand, you prevent wage increases by corseating interprofessional bargaining. I can tell you that I understand better why yesterday, during your speech, in the gallery, there, on the second floor, the boss of the FEB listened to you with a very big smile to the lips. You want to force workers to be more flexible and to work 45 hours a week on the employer's sole decision and without paying a salary surcharge. You increase the number of overtime hours a worker can take without compensatory rest and you invent an overtime system without any reason, without even economic justification. In this regard, I would like to correct you. You said a lot of inaccuracies this morning on the radio, especially about the 45 hours. Contrary to what you have said, this is not going to be negotiated on a sectoral basis, as this is a matter of common ground. Then let me remind you that, until 45 hours, there will be no overtime. And then, please, stop pretending that the worker is decidedly the lucky elected of this reform. We're not with the Bisounours! A worker is not going to say, "My kid is sick this week, so I'm going to do 30 hours, which I'll compensate in a few months". To tell the story in this way is scandalous! We know that it is the employer who will decide on its own. This is what you have in your agreement: flexibility for companies, not workers. In addition, you increase pre-pension contributions. In this way, employers will prefer dry lay-offs to a humane formula that is more respectful of the older worker's career. In addition, when a worker experiences a period of unemployment, you reduce the reference salary for the pension from the second stage. In short, you're reducing his pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u63	Of course I do! Since, to calculate the amount of the pension, you look at the career, including the amount of the benefit. For the second phase of unemployment, since you do not return to the reference wage, your calculation reduces pension rights. Finally, you are making an extraordinary announcement, which I support. Indeed, you increase the training days required for workers. This is a good initiative. We are moving towards a society in which professional mobility will continue to grow. It is therefore important for workers to be able to train. However, it should be noted that you remove all penalties for employers who do not comply with this training obligation. This is another right that you are taking away from the workers. You are trying to justify your reforms against workers by arguing that this is the only way to preserve our jobs. It's not only scandalous, but it's not! If I take Caterpillar's example, the workers have given everything, they have absolutely accepted everything. They have been extremely flexible, they have absolutely not counted their overtime, they have worked on Saturdays, they have sacrificed part of their family life, they have accepted wage cuts to satisfy shareholders and guarantee their employment. They have gone beyond the negotiated objectives. Similarly, ING workers have made considerable efforts. They did not count their overtime, their wages have not been increased for a very long time. Has that changed anything? As a result, have they been able to safeguard their jobs? No, nothing! Caterpillar's decision, ING's decision, we know them. More and more dividends are needed for shareholders. Workers don't count! I wonder, moreover, how many tax gifts and reductions in non-compensatory contributions these companies have taken. After these tragedies, I was expecting another reaction from your government. A little gratitude for our workers, for our fellow citizens. Instead, you coldly announce new attacks. When history repeats itself, when multinationals are liberalizing their workers to favour dividends, words and graphics are not enough, we must act, we must act with courage, we must act with vigour. We have had words, more words that you sow in the wind. Don't be surprised if the storm continues to scold! Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you, as other colleagues have said in response to Mr. De Roover, whom I found the government's humor about young workers of very bad taste. So we support starters jobs for young people. Has everyone understood – I think so – the wrong joke that this government has reserved for young people? A few years ago, in 2012, government and social partners decided to raise the wages of young workers to support these young people, to avoid an employment trap. The government is now taking a step backwards from this advance. Starters jobs are a reduction in the minimum wage for young people, it is a cheap labour force that we offer to employers. For example, an 18-year-old will earn 18% less than a 21-year-old. And in addition, you extend the waiting period from 6 months to one year, that is, the number of months that workers who start their working lives must work before they are helped by social security. Mini-jobs, precarious jobs, temporary workers are multiplying. Young people lose their protection for several months. I really hope that the young people are listening to us and that they realize that this government has mocked them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u64	Mr President, I do not intend to react systematically when I hear absolute counter-truths in Mrs Onkelinx's head because this would lead to an almost infinite prolongation of our debates. Let us be precise on this point! You have just expressed, Mrs. Onkelinx, in front of everyone, an absolute counter-truth. You want to make believe that the net salary, pocket salary of young people will fall with this measure. This is not true because the measure targets gross wages and will not have an impact on the net wages of young people. On the other hand, yes, there is a problem of youth employment rates that is of concern. I said it yesterday, in my nuanced speech, where I highlighted successes and weaknesses. There has been a decline in the youth employment rate in recent years in all regions of the country. We make decisions, we take action. And we protect the net wages, the wages of young people who get a job. We encourage young people to work, to find jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u65	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u66	But where are you going to get the 20 million? (...): Mrs Onkelinx has the floor...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u67	We should address Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u68	Statements in the gallery are made in relation to parliamentarians, Mr. Dewael. When a minister speaks, it's another situation. Here, it is the Prime Minister who takes the floor to interrupt Mrs Onkelinx, but without giving the necessary clarification, and that is why I am speaking again. How do you manage to make up the 20 million in your budget table, which you have not yet handed over, but which will happen, since you think this is a positive measure? How do you get to the 20 million euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u69	Simply because, thanks to this measure, we will encourage the hiring of young people. These are a few thousand additional jobs obtained in particular by the flexibility of working time. You don't like to hear the truth! It hurts your ears! In the same way as flexibility, the law on the labour market will also lead to boost job creation, as well as e-commerce...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u70	We saw him in Caterpillar, Prime Minister. Don't tell me anything! Don't exaggerate! You mustn't make fun of the workers! Greater flexibility!- Is that what you're saying? In all companies - stop making background noise! -. In all the companies which were laid off in September, the workers had accepted flexibility. So what you're saying about the return effects is making fun of all the workers who are losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u71	Prime Minister, since you have intervened, I would like to do so in my turn. This is a very important subject. The starters jobs concern, if I am not mistaken, young people under the age of 21, without qualifications. You say you lower the gross minimum wage. Is it clear that the government is making a formal commitment that the net wages of these young people will not be reduced? If this commitment is made here, it will have to be followed by concrete actions. Indeed, it would be totally unacceptable for the net wages of these young people to be reduced. I would like to know how you will guarantee it. Whether you do so at the level of the interprofessional or the joint committee, the impact will be different depending on the sector and therefore for the young people concerned. Finally, I would like to know more about the number of jobs that this can create. It's nebulous. Based on the figures in your table, it is impossible to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u72	Thank you for your intervention. I repeat once again my remarks. I am well aware of the meaning of the message addressed to me. I will be meeting with Parliament in the coming months to verify this commitment. Our will is to work on gross wages and to protect the net wages of young workers; that is the commitment we have made. In the context of budget notifications, this option will be validated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u73	This should then have been noted in the tables as a cost. It doesn't make sense. First of all, if you lower the gross wage, it means for the worker, at the level of his professional career, which is devalued. For the rest, if you play on the contributions, you will have to pay less. This means less income for social security. Now, you're saying you're going to save money. It's incomprehensible. You are talking about return effects, but if that were the case, you should have included them in the great manna of return effects, which abound so much in your budget table that it would have gone unnoticed. That's not possible. You will have fewer receipts, so you will have an additional expense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u74	I will make two remarks, Mr President. The debate is indeed interesting. Let's go to the end. With regard to what you have just said, we have not taken into account any return effects, in general, in the budget table. The return effects chosen are to be read measure by measure, in a reasonable and prudent manner. Second point: there is a fundamental difference between your vision and ours. You think that fatality is always more unemployment, and that the answer is always more taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u75	Oh, it's okay! Stop saying such nonsense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u76	On the contrary, we believe that when we take good measures, we create additional jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u77	It's totally bullshit. That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u78	This government, which you don't like, has created an additional 70,000 jobs. The previous government had destroyed 17,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u79	That's not true! You spend a lot of time telling the truths at the moment. What works for young people is what is being done in the regions, which we have wanted to launch, such as the Youth Employment Guarantee. Do you know that in Brussels, thanks to this measure, and not to your policy, for almost 35 consecutive months, the rate of youth unemployment has been falling? This is a credible socialist policy to create jobs. This is obviously not what you have chosen, with these wage cuts to the detriment of young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u81	I'm very supportive of it! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u82	When we started with the week of the six days, then the five days, when we went to 40 hours and then to 39 and 38, we always had someone like M. Van Quickenborne, who said: "But it's impossible! Who's going to pay for this?" Well, we were able to achieve that while supporting the economy and protecting the workers. This is indeed a socialist policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u83	Mr President, thank you because we are in a rather fundamental and very interesting debate. I think it is important for all parliamentarians to understand what economic reasoning is. When you determine the four-day week with the same level of pay, there's someone who pays the bill anyway. Who pays the bill? Are taxpayers through taxes or businesses who see their burdens increased and therefore will not succeed in continuing to develop their business? This makes me think that your political project is spending more with the money of others!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u84	Prime Minister, when we came to the week of five days, there was certainly a Prime Minister who said the same thing as you. Do you know that for the moment a whole series of companies are already doing this? They've decided. Do you know how this works? Systematically, by increasing productivity. In Belgium, Prime Minister, we had a very strong point before your government: productivity. We were one of the countries in the world with the best productivity! If you don't play on productivity gains, you can't support an economy that creates jobs. More flexibility: I told you, we saw it with Caterpillar, but that didn't stop us from diving the company and putting 2,200 workers out. What you are proposing, greater flexibility, we now see that this is not working. And yet, you continue in the same direction. I will tell you, moreover, to answer your question – this does not count in my speaking time – that what was really a pity in your speech is that you have only approached digital through e-commerce, and not in a global way. Our economy is moving towards a massive reduction in the number of jobs. I'm not saying it, it's not the Socialist Party that says it. All economists say so. We are moving towards a society that will see an extremely large reduction in the number of jobs. You have no proposal in relation to that. On the contrary, as I said, in the context of Minister Peeters' project, what you are doing is increasing the number of overtime hours per worker. This goes against what is absolutely necessary. You say, "I'm preparing for the future." But in the digital field, you didn't say a word. You leave our society without sowing prospects, solutions, answers for young people who today are afraid not to know a job situation as we know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u85	Prime Minister, I fully agree with Mrs Laurette Onkelinx. She's right. You're really reactionary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u86	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u87	We'll discuss it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u88	I am very happy, Prime Minister, when he agrees with me. I'm a little less happy when you're messing with some people who want to break the medical cord, in particular. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u89	Prime Minister, if the prime ministers of the last century had all... [[Brouhahaha]] That was still a good one! It's a pleasure! Really, Prime Minister, if all the prime ministers of the last century had reasond like you, we would still be in the 60-hour week! This is crazy! Now you're doing your old reac! Let us take ING as a good example because it is a company where digitalisation has allowed productivity to explode in the banking system. Today, ING wants to put hundreds of workers at the door. But why not introduce a reduction in working time precisely in this undertaking? If we go to 30 hours a week, we've calculated that we can already save more than 1,000 jobs in this company. You asked who was going to pay: 7 billion dividends over ten years. It is not normal for this type of society to put more and more workers out, deplete them and therefore sink us more and more into the crisis! That's why your model is not on the road, Prime Minister. You're reducing the purchasing power of workers. They're going to eat less and less. Our economy will stagnate more and more and this is your failure. It is for this reason that your budget and employment figures are not working. Please pull yourself together, Prime Minister, otherwise we'll go into the ravine!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u90	I'm not going to be Manichean as you are, Prime Minister. I will support some of the proposals you have made. My group will support them. You see, we know the difference between what's right and what's wrong. We have already done so last year, with, for example, the abolition of social contributions for the employment of the first workers. And I owe it to the truth to say that it worked. Similarly, we welcome your decision to allow partial cumulation of wages and allowances for workers with disabilities. As far as the reform envisaged for company cars is concerned, I am puzzled. Your decision to tax gas cards is, in my opinion, a good thing, but I don't understand what you mean by a mobility budget and I would like you to answer me. I think this is an important debate. You offer 450 euros instead of the company car. But today, a company can already say: "I don't give you a company car but a wage increase". I suppose that is not your reform, since it is already possible. You're going to isolate the 450 euros with, I suppose, a different tax or parafiscal treatment. But then, how are you going to do it? There will be a salary with normal social contributions and regular tax treatment. And then, on the other side, what will it be? Will there be another destination for a portion of your salary? How is this going to happen in practice? If the workers concerned receive a part of their wages not taxed and not subject to social security contributions, why them and not the others? I don't think that's clear. In all sincerity, I would be interested to hear a detailed explanation in this regard. You may have thought that taxing fuel cards on companies' backs was not a very pleasant measure and that it should therefore be hidden by putting forward the concept of mobility budget. In any case, this does not seem to me technically to the point. However, the aim of reducing the number of company cars seems to me to be commendable. On the other hand, I am less convinced that it will be part of another mobility policy. I noticed that you spoke very little about mobility yesterday, since you only devoted four sentences to it in your statement. You said in veiled terms that SNCB would continue to suffer draconian savings. As far as the ER is concerned, despite your investment commitments made last July – since we had heard Minister Bellot mention huge additional investments of the order of a billion on the air of "you'll see what you're going to see" – I didn't hear anything like that yesterday. That's why I'm waiting for your answers in this area. I am convinced that in terms of mobility it is necessary to work in this direction. In other words, there is a need to reduce the number of company cars, but above all to invest in rail infrastructure and the RER. That's what we need. And then there are the reforms that we are worried about, like the one on pensions. Over and over again, pensioners are the unloved of the government. They have been subjected to all consumer taxes but they have not benefited at all from the tax shift. They see the connection to well-being melt as snow in the sun. Now, it is to the future pensioners that you are attacking: raising the pension age of SNCB and military rolling personnel – thank you to the military for their role in the fight against terrorism! - reform of periods treated as part of the scheme for employed persons, abolition of preferential periods. I want you to know that I am pressing a desperate ras-le-bol of so many men and women who see their rights destroyed. As for the public service, I believe that it is men and women who serve the public that will be the greatest victims of your reforms. They will take everything in full shape and, in addition, they will have to swallow the big savings in the departments, such as reducing their possibilities of career interruption. Yet it is through them that the role of the State and the defence of the country is realized that you are weakening. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish a reform and a budget, we must first make a lucid statement about the country. There are positive points, and we must say so. You are right to note the good performance of our exports; you are right to note the continued decline in the number of bankruptcies, which began in 2013. But to be credible, you have to say everything, you have to tell the whole truth. It must be explained, for example, that unfortunately in Belgium we have economic growth below the European average. You didn't say! We have always had higher growth in recent years and it is now below the European average. In 2016, 1.7% in Europe, 1.4% in Belgium, and in 2017, 1.5% in Europe and 1.2% in Belgium are forecast. Mr De Roover, if growth was good, you wouldn't have to undermine spending! It should also be explained that in 2014, after the previous government's competitiveness pact and before your government went back on track, the Plan Bureau, without all of your reforms, was working on an increase in employment of 32,000 units per year, that is, 64,000 over two years. Therefore, your extremely costly and harmful reforms for workers have, of course, had an effect on employment. But here we are talking about a maximum of 16,000 new jobs and again! Most of these are part-time jobs. I quote the figures: 53% of part-time jobs, 36% of short-term jobs and only 11% of full-time jobs. This is what is happening, despite the 16 billion swallowed up by companies. That percentage is derisory! As you know, according to Eurostat, our employment rate is decreasing as it increases in the euro area. It must be explained that inflation is increasing to such an extent that, in the heat of summer, the Minister of Economy has requested an emergency analysis. Prices are rising in telecommunications, in horeca, in processed food products. We are the bad students of the European class. It must be explained that the debt is still increasing and that you are unable to meet European requirements. You say you're preparing the future of society. Is it for our fellow citizens of the future to attach the debt ball to their feet? Debt has increased. That is the fact! That's how I get back to trust. You've seen how much our tax revenues have sunk against the forecast. It's a disaster! Prime Minister, we must not be afraid of the truth. In my opinion, the handle effects can't hide everything. And the 2017 budget will certainly not fix the country's situation. What a management! It's a big mess! First of all, we throw figures in the face like we steal confetti at the carnival. In three months, we went from an effort of 2.4 billion to 4.2 billion and finally to 3 billion. Hello, seriously! At no time does your government succeed in meeting its objectives. In 2015, you had to improve your balance by 0.7% of GDP; final result: an improvement of 0.16%, representing a loss of just over €2 billion. In 2016, the same thing: you had to improve the balance by 0.56% and that will be 0.1%. For 2017, more manly than ever, you come back saying you can make 1.1% of GDP. But who believes you? In my opinion, not the Court of Auditors, which, in a previous year, had doubts before the Committee on Finance and Budget about the realism of certain revenue from your budget! I see Mr Verherstraeten tells you not to intervene, but you can do it, Mr Van Rompuy. Besides, since I'm talking about you, all of this doesn't take into account the effects of the tax shift, not funded after 2018. Remember that the National Bank was talking about 9 billion euros. In fact, despite all your promises, while at the beginning of the legislature you were stripping the muscles on the subject, you let the budget and the debt go. I think you are not doing any good to the younger generations, because you are obsessed with structural reforms that break the wage support mechanism for workers and that of the social protection of the population. Cherry on the cake: the budget is totally disproportionate. Half of the effort is on social security, of which €900 million is on health care. You said yesterday in this forum that health care is a valuable asset. You're right. So why don't you protect them? Yes, our care system is often shown as an example. But I can assure you that it will no longer be so if you continue to place unwise budgetary choices on it. Despite the efforts to make, you initially promised that you would not touch the patients. It was a promise in the air. You have increased user tickets in some specialists, reduced the length of stay in maternity care, postponed the application of the third-party compulsory fee for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention and refused to extend it to chronic patients. Today, again, your government will make substantial savings on our health care. As I said, it will achieve more than 900 million savings in this area. Indeed, 675 million had been arrested before the beginning of the conclave, of which about 400 were unaware of the measures. Next, an additional 227 million are being requested today. So we're talking about a contribution from the health care sector to your government's fiscal consolidation of $3.6 billion by 2019, while the means have increased by only 1% in 2016 and growth will be just above zero in 2017. All this, without affecting patients, by continuing to meet the needs of the population and by providing margins for new initiatives in favour of patients and professionals in the sector? We don't believe it for a second. And what about Mrs. De Block? Definitely, we can't believe her anymore. She makes a commitment and the next day she does the opposite. And she concludes, with a smile on her lips: "That's politics, isn't it, ma'am!" No, the policy as I see it is to live up to its commitments. The Minister of Health tells us that it won't hurt. "I'll do this to the scalpel." 900 million euros for scalpel. Famous scalpel! And it takes antibiotics as an example, too many in our country. This is not a small measure, since the price of antibiotics for patients will more than double at the pharmacy. You didn't tell the truth this morning on the radio. For example, for a EUR 11.5 box, the patient will pay EUR 5.6 instead of EUR 2.5, Prime Minister. Moreover, it is not a public health measure, even if there is an over-consumption of antibiotics in our country, because your measure will not put an end to it. Indeed, it is not the patient who chooses to take an antibiotic or not, it is the doctor who prescribes it! It is not by making the patient pay that doctors are encouraged to prescribe fewer antibiotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u91	Mrs Onkelinx, of course, we will have a more in-depth debate in the course of the day or even the evening on health care. You say that to be credible, you have to tell everything and the whole truth. Until then, I agree with you. You're talking about antibiotics. Indeed, at first glance, this is the only area in which the patient could be impacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u92	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u93	This represents 1.6 per cent of the reform. We're talking about the price of antibiotics. Of course, an antibiotic that would cost 100 euros and double it would give a price of 200 euros; everyone will have done the arithmetic exercise. You gave an example, I'll give you another one. Here we are talking about an antibiotic that currently costs the patient 1.5 euro. The double is three euros. Is that unacceptable? I am talking about a generic antibiotic, whereas in the context of new antibiotics that will be placed on the market or that are already on the market and that are more expensive, the increase for the patient is in the order of 2 to 2.5 euros, which, in absolute terms, is not important. It is true that the doctor prescribes the patient. He is logically obliged to take what is prescribed for him. This does not explain why Belgium is among the first four countries in the European Union where the most antibiotics are prescribed. We are even the second country! We know very well that there is a habit of prescribing antibiotics to avoid overinfections. It is also well known that some pharmaceutical companies have pushed prescription to have an additional benefit. This should be avoided as part of a better approach to patient care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, either you want to have a public health objective, and then you are actually acting on the prescriptions of antibiotics, which are too numerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u96	Can I still look where I want, Mr. President? Do we have to look at a fixed spot somewhere? You're telling me I can't look that way. Is this a new section of the Regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u97	I ask you to address the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u98	This is clearly a new rule that I do not know. You'll have to show it to me! To return to the main point, Belgium has too high an antibiotic consumption. Minister, I hope you're paying attention to this because it looks like you're finding out. Above all – and this is the most important – we have a prescription for antibiotics that are not suitable for germs and therefore lead to resistance risks. This would be a real policy that should be pursued if public health is to be effective! Will this be settled by your choice and by the decision you make? No. Assume it! The decision you make is purely budgetary. Secondly, the issue of health care. You say, "Nothing else will touch patients." Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but that is not true. I take the example of the measures that you decide to reduce hospital budgets. The minister says that many hospitals are in the red. That's right. The hospital situation, I tell you, is pretty catastrophic. And what is the government's response to that? Thanks to us, we're going to cut hospital budgets and so it's going to get better. Or better, you say: we're going to remove beds and that way, it's going to be better. What is reality? What are the health needs? There are important needs, particularly related to the lengthening of life. In hospitals, beds are removed, while there are elderly patients, who stay there and cannot go out after a few days. The reality is that by removing beds, you're going to have to put those patients out faster. You will remove beds and this will also result in the decrease of nurses. That's the reality! The impact on the patient is extremely important. The reality of hospitals is gravissimal and you make it even worse. This is unacceptable! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u99	Everyone will have the chance to express themselves in the course of these debates. I therefore propose that we really address Mrs Onkelinx, where appropriate. She and she alone is the speaker. Only when the government takes the floor will the right to reply be created. Mrs Jiroflée, would you like to add something to what Mrs Onkelinx has done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u100	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, I would just like to say that you are absolutely right when it comes to antibiotics. It is scandalous what Mr Thiéry says. After all, it is not about a few euros; it is not about a small cost. The point is that those who can afford it will continue to use antibiotics, but that they will have these difficulties and the sick will be responsible for closing the gap in the budget. That's what this is about, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u101	Mr President, I would like to clarify Mrs Onkelinx's point. In our discussions on the 2014 government statement, specifically regarding the intention to include patient accountability in the health care budget, we had expressed doubts about what the term "accountability" meant. Either the patient has to take more care of his health and obtain more capacity in this sense, or – and this is true with the antibiotic measure that my colleague has just mentioned – he has to take responsibility for his access to health care at the risk of being penalized. The measure of antibiotic disbursing prescribed by doctors is typically a provision where the notion of "responsibility" means "exclusion of care".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u102	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Thiéry, who has admitted that the price of antibiotics will double. The Prime Minister said the opposite this morning on the radio. Secondly, this measure is unfavourable to the patient and will not produce any decrease in the number of antibiotics in circulation in our country. To do so, another policy, affecting the prescriber, is necessary. Mr Thiéry, I would also like to point out that this provision will increase patients' pharmaceutical bills by 4%. However, this is one of the main reasons why a part of the population – the one that is likely to get poorer and worse, as the Prime Minister said yesterday – is abandoning some of the care. In other words, you have increased the risk of insecurity for the sick. Yes, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u103	Firstly, Mrs Onkelinx, I think you should have the intellectual honesty to say that public health is also taking accompanying measures to adjust antibiotic prescription behaviour. You know that such measures have been taken in the past and that they have not always had the desired effect. May I remind you that you have not been able to solve this with your autre façon either? Secondly, I hear Mrs Jiroflée say that people who are not so broad will not be able to pay for antibiotics. May I remind you, Mrs Jiroflée, that in our country almost 2 million people have a preferential arrangement and are therefore not affected by it. In other words, I assume that people like you and I do not have a preferential arrangement, they will pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u104	With Mrs De Block, there are always intellectuals and others. I don't understand very well! If you want to reduce the number of antibiotics, what should you do? Of course, countryside. Those that exist must be pursued. You need to work on the profile of prescribers. Some of them do not respect the desire to reduce the number of antibiotics in circulation in our country. We all know that, but Mr. Thiéry has at least had the honesty to admit that this is going to affect the patient. The fact that the patient, who can't, goes to the pharmacy and sees his bill increase, will not contribute, in any way, to reducing the number of antibiotics. What you are saying, Madam Minister, is absolutely not in response to the fact that you have taken, foolishly, a budget measure against patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u105	Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to add that we must not underestimate how many people are asking their doctor for antibiotics because they want to swallow something quickly so that they can continue to work because they are extremely afraid that otherwise they will lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u106	Despite this debate on antibiotics, I would remind you that this is a measure that brings 14 million out of 900 into the budget. You can imagine what's waiting for us for the balance! I fully agree with what has been said about hospitals: EUR 92 million. Here, too, we hear counter-truths. Some people suspected that there were unoccupied beds and that we would take that into account. That's not true! Under the current system, unoccupied beds are not funded. This morning, you gave the cataract operation as an example to say that we were going to standardize. This is called the reference amounts. It's been a long time since we introduced them! This is not a new policy. And I'm not even sure that this does not already exist for cataracts. This standardization brings almost nothing! You're going to withdraw resources from the hospitals! Do you know that one in three hospitals is already in the red? Did you hear what the manager of the Saint-Luc University Clinics said this morning? He's gonna have to fire. With your policy, there will be job losses, so there will be decreases in the quality of care. Or, managers will again have to ask for supplements where they can do so, which will make accommodation in the rooms unaffordable for most citizens, except for extremely expensive hospital insurance. We must tell the truth: 14 million antibiotics, it affects patients; 92 million on hospitals, it will affect patients in hospitals. I'm worried about what you're holding for the future! You also decided not to index the fees of healthcare providers, at least not completely. You know what's gonna happen. Some tariff agreements beneficial to patients could be denounced, and it will be all the more difficult to conclude new ones. Rates will be free and therefore more expensive, to the detriment of patients. All this in addition to the reduction in benefits for long-term patients or maternity leave, for example. To say that health care is a valuable asset is not enough. If you really believe in it, you must do everything possible to protect this good by saving patients already affected by the disease, by supporting healthcare professionals, which you clearly do not do! Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will end this speech by talking about poverty. Prime Minister, you said yesterday that 21 per cent of the population is at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion. Among this percentage, in 2015 we had more than 115,000 beneficiaries of social integration income, an increase of 12.4% over 2014. Nearly 40,000 new files are expected in 2017. This is also your assessment. It will increase with the weight of your new measures, especially on part-time work and health. This is what shockes so many people: the fact that you do nothing to tax large shareholders, to involve the richest 10% – and you even remove the taxes on speculation – in solidarity, and that at the same time you make the life of the most fragile of our society even more difficult. Yesterday you quoted Saint-Exupéry and Mandela to finish your speech on the state of the Union, to talk about optimism and poverty. I do not believe that there is a need to summon great minds to speak of our fellow citizens who are in the greatest difficulties. It is necessary to take the time to see them, to talk with them, to know their problems, the parallel world in which they evolve, the fear that embraces them for themselves and for their children; to take the time to listen to them to understand them better and to stop taking measures that prevent them from the path of hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u107	Two years ago, this government, the majority, was working to put our country on the path of reform, on the path of modernization; reforms that are difficult, but essential to produce, for the benefit of all Belgians. Two years ago, there were already many and significant challenges in terms of employment, in terms of our competitiveness. We were therefore operating in a security system where the measures in force were completely inadequate and inadequate in the face of the terrorist threat. Pensions were still too much threatened by the cost of ageing. The tax burden, however, was still excessive and stifled too many initiatives. Two years later, many reforms were undertaken. They're continuing. Reforming is not the choice of ease, as you pointed out, Prime Minister, especially since the context remains difficult. We were beaten, with a nameless violence, on 22 March, in Brussels and Zaventem, by Daesh. We remain at level 3 of the threat, lastingly, humanly. Our country will remain marked by these terrorist attacks. Beyond the tragedy, for the victims, for the families, we also know what these attacks have, in terms of their socio-economic consequences, for trade, horeca, tourism and related jobs. A difficult context, so... With regard to the 2015 migration crisis, everyone can agree that it has been managed. Prime Minister, you recalled the fact that Brexit is not without consequences for our country. This context is also marked by the brutality of closures and restructuring in companies such as Caterpillar, ING, and others... These are events that are real tragedies for those who lose their jobs, and which legitimately shock, scandalize the entire Belgian population. Despite these difficulties, despite these obstacles, the country has been able to move in the right direction. There's still some work to be done. But yes, that goes in the right direction. It's not Patrick Dewael, nor Servais Verherstraeten, nor Peter De Roover who say it. These are independent bodies, such as the National Bank of Belgium, the Federal Office of the Plan, the Institute of National Accounts. Of course, much remains to be done to deal with the scale of the stakes and, if they do not have to see us diverge from our voluntarism, we are probably called, as politicians, to practice more humility. The stakes remain high, but positive results are achieved in terms of reducing unemployment, employment, competitiveness and the reduction of the wage gap. Onkelinx highlighted the increase in our exports. We could have added the increase in private consumption as well as information on the increase in private investment, as I indicated. In addition to the new measures you have put forward in favour of our competitiveness, which we will return to, we believe that the measures taken in favour of purchasing power and those taken in the direction of restoring "work" value in our country contribute to these good results. This government wanted to place purchasing power and the upgrading of work at the heart of its policies. As of January 1, 2015, low and medium wages, those most in need, have been revalued. On Sunday, in your policy statement, Prime Minister, you informed us that measures to support purchasing power were confirmed. This is an essential measure for the MR. This is an essential measure for the majority as a whole. In this sense, by 2019, almost 5 billion euros will have been reinjected into the Belgian portfolio. In concrete terms, the person who earns 1,500 euros gross per month now earns 996 euros net in addition per year. In 2019, he or she will earn an additional €1,752 net per year. The citizen who earns 2,100 euros gross per month now earns 864 euros net more per year. In 2019, it will earn an additional €1,548 net per year. The tax bonus in favour of household purchasing power is preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u108	Mr. Ducrame, you're quoting a series of numbers. But, in the table that was rendered by the government, there is above all a large white hole in the column of efforts to be made in 2018 and 2019. However, according to what you say and according to the Prime Minister's statement yesterday, we will "return" to balance in 2018, the tax shift is funded and the amounts you quoted are guaranteed. As far as I am concerned, I would like to see clarity on this. Indeed, the tax shift is still not funded. The added value for citizens is announced for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but this is not yet the case with regard to the amounts you have mentioned. What is the effort you will still be asking for to both fund the tax shift and achieve balance in 2018? What amount will you miss next year to close the 2018 and 2019 budgets? Five, six, seven, eight billion? I don't know. To say to the citizens that they will have more when you will not be able to finance the measure allowing it in a year and, in so doing, to ask them, once again, for massive efforts, as you have done, through new taxes, the increase in VAT, a whole series of brutal measures, is not honest. It is therefore necessary for you to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u109	Mr President, the question is important. I can guess, imagine that some people don't want to continue to lower taxes, lower taxes, and make the tax shift a reality. Yet that is the will of this government. The tax shift has been announced and, to date, each step has been honoured. I am pleased to say, for example, that the 80 euros per month, in 2016, for a low salary, is equivalent to four additional indexes in one year. I would also like to say a few words about the amounts for the coming years. We developed the 2017 budget according to the parameters of the Planning Office, which has degraded growth compared to what we imagined. This represented an additional EUR 1 billion effort in the run-up to 2017. A few days ago, the IMF tells us that this will be 1.4% growth for Belgium. What are we going to do? We will do what has been agreed. We will follow up, budget after budget, budgetary control after budgetary control, in order to be able to honour, for 2018 and 2019, the promises made in terms of reductions in taxes on labour, which will continue, and reductions in charges, which will continue. This 2017 budget puts us in order to be able, in 2018, to honour the complementary commitments made on the tax shift. And I am happy to say that, at the end of the legislature, the ambition is that a person who has a low salary will receive 140 euros net per month more thanks to the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u110	Prime Minister, I would like to look at the outcome of various decisions. You have indeed implemented a tax shift, with the aim of reducing the cost to employers, so that more jobs would be created. In the meantime, all target discounts have been abolished in Flanders. The tax shift is mainly used to compensate. For the low-skilled young people, the reduction has been reduced, which has actually made them more expensive for the employer. What happens now? At federal level, a decision is taken to compensate for this and to ensure that young people are again as cheap as they used to be. The federal government therefore compensates for the measures taken by the Flemish Government with the tax shift. Prime Minister Michel, you say the employee will also benefit from the tax shift. Yeah, but not for the low-skilled. After all, the advantage of the small tax shift they could have had is now being taken away from them. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u111	Mr President, I am responding to the Prime Minister's intervention. We are very much in favour of reducing the cost of labour, so that is so much better. But what have you done so far? You took with one hand what you gave with the other. Indeed, in practice, taxes and the increase in VAT – I am thinking in particular of electricity – have passed on to all citizens, including pensioners who do not benefit from the tax shift or from the reduction of labour costs. Citizens have not seen a positive delta in purchasing power. Moreover, Belgium has a record rate of inflation, at 2%, while it is broadly at 0% in the euro area. This, of course, has an impact on purchasing power, since it is directly eroded. I'd like to set an appointment for the government. You quote and re-cite this amount of 140 euros. At the end of the legislature, we will have to do more and less, as a result of what you have achieved, and taking into account the reduction in the cost of work. The latter is important for creating jobs, but in parallel, we must pay for this progress through a series of measures that you have already taken. We will see how you will continue in the future, but this annihilates the positive delta. We will give you an appointment at the end of the legislature, Prime Minister, and we will see what the citizens will actually have won.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u112	To increase wages, especially low wages, is a good thing. That's the truth. We have done so in the past and it continues here. I am obviously in favour of it. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u113	Under the last legislature, when you were president of the party. Ask the MR who was at the heart of the government! Why do we criticize the way you did it? Simply because you finance it through consumer taxes. You give it with one hand and you take it from the other. When we analyse the structure of this decision, we find that, indeed, low-income workers will earn more, at the end of the legislative term in 2019, not 140 euros more, but in reality only 69 euros when we deduct everything they will have to pay. But to whose detriment is this done? Workers with an average wage who are not going to pay – on the contrary! – and pensioners who obviously do not benefit from an increase in wages, but who actually pay all the taxes on consumption. In other words, on the one hand, you make low-income workers contribute to their own increase by means of consumer taxes and, on the other hand, you will draw from the pockets of pensioners and average employees to finance your policy. That's where the bastard hurts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u114	First of all, our disagreement about the tax shift is not whether or not the burden on labour should be reduced, but how we will finance it. As far as financing is concerned, look again at the people who are having a hard time and at those who are working themselves, while we want to do it in a different way. Secondly, as far as the budget is concerned, you may hope that you can tell the country just about anything, but I hope that there are limits to naivety. I am not a budgetary fetishist; budgetary balance is important, but a balance of society is even more important to me. I would like to draw your attention to a number of issues which have not been dealt with very much. The budget of this team, Prime Minister, is, with all due respect, rather sad. There was little about the figures here. Let us look at the table you have distributed. The effort for 2016 you have actually done completely... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u115	You must try to get it said in two minutes, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u116	My speech was almost finished, Mr President. It was about the budget line of this team. How did you solve it before 2016, Prime Minister? 437 million out of 477 million in efforts for 2016 came from pushing Asylum and Migration out of the budget. That was your solution for 2016. Asylum and Migration, which you said in the chair that they were under control. There is also a lot in blank right upper right in your table, for 2018, 2019 and 2020. The tax shift, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been financed, and that is why we are concerned. We know that if this effort is to be made, this government will return to the ordinary people. You cannot make it clear, Prime Minister, that your budget is in order, and certainly not that the tax shift has been financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u117	Mr President, I would like to deliver some elements. First, the OECD recently stated that in 2015, three countries undertook the most dramatic reforms to reduce the burden on labour: the Netherlands, Austria and Belgium. Second element, I hear the same rengaine, the old striped record for two years now! We're trying to make it look like we'd have given it with one hand and taken it from the other. I take the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) as an arbitrator. A few weeks ago, in analysing the situation in the country, the BNB said that the disposable income of households since the tax shift had increased by 2 per cent. That's the facts!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u118	Mr. President, the Prime Minister responds in Mr. Ducrame's place. He's helping her. But it's always nice to debate with you, Prime Minister! We will not only debate figures for the sake of numbers. Prime Minister, when you say 2% more, let me refer to the Planning Office. Indeed, he believes that the increase in disposable income will be absolutely not 2%. The increase in real disposable income will be 1.4% in 2016 and 1% in 2017. If you add something that you obviously never take into account in your equation, namely 2% inflation, that's ten times more than what we have as inflation at the European average! You mention the OECD, I also like to quote Eurostat from time to time. So you are told that citizens' disposable income is up 2%, it is not fair to believe that the information from the Plan Office, to which should be added those from Eurostat!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u119	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for your measure. Above all, thank you for saying in this debate that the tax shift was positive and that what we were doing with regard to the strengthening of purchasing power on the low and the wage means is good. I note that in a debate like this, without sending us flowers, we can recognize the merits of everyone. We heard the Prime Minister, who helped me, Mrs. Fonck, and he often helps me, we have many exchanges. Thank you again, Charles! About the 2%, we don't give with one hand what we would take with the other. The balance remains naturally positive. Meanwhile, at this stage, the workers have this extra 80 euros in their pocket. We have produced a policy that has inflated the purchasing power, the workers' portfolio. We must continue. Our commitments, Mrs. Fonck, are honest. These are commitments that we have written black on white, with amounts written black on white. I can't see the hole from here. [[Brouhahaha]] The commitment is made and we will meet with him. This is a commitment that this government has made to workers, which it has made to the country. This is one of the priority commitments of the government team, which wanted to be the government of purchasing power, of the upgrading of work, not to mention the most fragile pensioners. We were able, this government, this team was able to ensure that the most fragile pensions were strengthened. As the Prime Minister said on Sunday, there will still be important action in favour of the weakest and weakest pensioners. We talked about pensions. It is clear that work is continuing in this area. The government team was faced with a very clear choice. Either we were perpetuating, as if nothing were happening, the same policies in terms of pensions, or this government was deciding, as most European states have done, to reform the pension system. The majority of them thus raise the statutory pension age to 67 years. So we had to decide. This government is promoting a reform that will allow us to continue to fund pensions. Beyond certain political games, I believe that most of us here know that pension reform is necessary if, in the long run, we want to guarantee decent retirement for workers. It's going on. Another fundamental aspect of this government's work over the past two years is to work with businesses. If we want to develop a policy of support for employment, we must ensure that it better supports businesses. Under previous legislatures, the MR has often had to fight hard to implement corporate policies. Unfortunately, some here still do not seem to consider the entrepreneur, the self-employed as the natural and indispensable partner of employment. They systematically continue to oppose the worker to the company. On the contrary, we wish to see them come closer through essential reforms. Despite this need for reform, there is a need to produce policies that reconcile. Everyone must continue to take a step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u120	You say we need to reconcile workers and employers. I note that the share of wages in GDP has been declining steadily since this government is in place. In 2013, the share of wages was 52.9%. Today, it is 50.4%. On the other hand, the share of profits in GDP followed the reverse curve. I note that this government reduces wages for workers and increases profits for employers. I also note that your austerity policy has cost the population billions in the last two years, but that no results are achieved in terms of economic indicators. I could talk about the deficit. In 2014, you announced that the structural balance for 2016 would be -0.6%. A year later, it was -1.2 per cent. As of May 2016, it was -1.7%. The gap is only widening. I don't know where we are now, you're going to be able to tell me. Regarding debt, European Commissioner Moscovici said, I quote: "In 2014 and 2015, Belgium failed to meet the debt criterion, which means that there is a reversal of the debt curve and a gradual reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. It is possible that the draft budget may again result in non-compliance with this debt criterion." Will this criterion be met for 2016? If this is not the case, there will be both austerity for the population and a lack of budgetary rigour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u121	I have a fiscal consolidation part, if you like. I'm trying to keep things in order. Come back at that time! You still agree with a number of realities set out by independent bodies. I know that you do not like everything that is institutional, but, nevertheless, when a number of figures are specified in relation to the creation of jobs and businesses that exceed anything that has been done for the last 10 years. We haven't created any private jobs since... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u122	I am not going to be stuck on a number of statistical elements. They're variables, that's how it is. A country's health is measured on the basis of statistical elements reported by independent bodies. It's not all good-looking. There's still a way to go. However, in all humility, the analysis of a number of signals allows us, in terms of business creation, in terms of job creation, in terms of the number of people who work today, to speak of positive results. I am not saying that we must not exert any effort on certain elements. Mrs Onkelinx spoke earlier about growth which is lower than at European level. Every time you go on TV, Mrs. Onkelinx, I rush to watch. Yesterday, in front of the camera, you said that job creation was short-term. At one point, despite this weak growth – and we are making every effort to improve it and reach the European average – we have been able to create new jobs and businesses. These are realities. I will not tell you that this government has not increased the VAT on electricity. I will not tell you that there is no growth (...) It would be going a little far. I can tell you, however, that this government team is not blind to some progress that still needs to be made. We recognize that there is still some way to go, but at least give us – in this respect, we can talk about intellectual honesty – the benefit of the results that we really get. We'd like to hear it. I'm not asking for more. We need to agree on a number of variables.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u123	Mr President, I've had a little bit of a question for a while now. We are talking about the evolution of growth in our country. The Prime Minister said that growth was not as good as expected and that, in the end, one billion euros had to be found. So I feel a little bit that when growth isn't good, it's contextual, and when growth is good, it's because of the government's policy. I find it a little difficult to distinguish between what is really the result of the policy and the measures taken by this government, what is hurting the citizens, and the results resulting from the European situation. At the beginning of 2016, growth was indeed better in all European countries. In particular, economists claimed that one of the reasons for this growth was a significant decrease in oil barrel prices. If I'm not an economist, I'm pretty good at it. The price of the barrel has risen, I think, from $90 to $40. It fell by almost half, which boosted growth. So, in my opinion, this has nothing to do with your measurements. If you can prove economically that the 70,000 jobs are really the result of your measurements, do it! You are only in the slogan, you are not in the encrypted demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u124	Mr Ducrame, you say that it is important to agree on the parameters that we wish to assess. I suggest that we agree on what the government itself has decided with respect to the evaluation parameters. In October 2014, the Prime Minister was in this forum. At the time, he had set himself a numerical goal. This can be found on page 3 of the October 2014 Government Policy Statement. You have the text in front of your eyes. The government's ambition was to reach an employment rate of 73.2% before the end of the legislature. Let's not invent new parameters! There is a parameter on page 3 of the government policy statement. Where are we today, Mr. Ducrame? 67.3%. In October 2014, we were better located than we are today! Here's your assessment! That is what the government had set itself and how it could not achieve it. He's going backwards. This is not a parameter that I have chosen, but one that the government had chosen for its own assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u125	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say a few words to Mr Thiébaut on growth. As I said earlier, three weeks before the budget was finalized, we were aware of the adaptations of the Plan Bureau that have degraded growth forecasts for 2017, mainly – as the Plan Bureau says – because of the vote on Brexit. This is an easy-to-check element. In addition, Mr. Nollet focused on a key point. How are measures taken to create more activities, more jobs, to stimulate investment? I will repeat what I said yesterday with the same nuances. There are favorable points, namely the resumption of investment, the growth of the confidence of entrepreneurs, the decrease in the number of bankruptcies, the creation of more than 70,000 jobs. Nevertheless, as I said yesterday, we are experiencing a difficulty because of the stagnation in the employment rate because many young people come to the labour market. This explains the measure relating to starters jobs. You asked me what the goal was? The objective is the one indicated by the National Bank. In addition to the measures taken and external factors, we can hope to create an additional 140,000 jobs and thus move closer to the target set in 2014. In other words, and to say things with the greatest precision and frankness, as with any government in the world, there are external factors that are not controlled and that are binding on us. For example, we do not control the vote in Britain. We do not control the price of the barrel of oil, just like the choice of the European Central Bank. On the other hand, for everything we control, we will implement reforms to make decisions that are favourable to employment, investment and economic activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u126	Let's look at these 70 000 jobs in detail. Of these 70 000 new jobs, 8 000 full-time jobs are open-ended. If we know that 9 000 jobs disappeared in September, this is less than a zero operation. Of these 70 000 jobs there are 20 000 jobs with interim contracts and especially flexi-jobs. You know that flexi jobs are jobs for people who already have a four-fifth job. So these are not new jobs for people in unemployment or with a living wage. Then there are 41 000 part-time jobs that can go from 2 to 30 hours a week. So I wouldn't crow victory over those 70,000 jobs. Two countries in Europe are doing worse, including Finland, but the rate of activity is over 70%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u127	Mr President, we are used to it: with the Prime Minister, when the figures go wrong, it is the fault of the Brexit! But as far as I know, Prime Minister Ducarme, Brexit concerns the other European countries as it does Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u128	That's what the Plan Office says! It's not the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u129	Look at the estimates of the employment rate for all other EU countries, whether they are close or distant from Great Britain. Look at the evolution, including of France. It is up 1 per cent. And we've been down by 0.7% since 2014. Look at France, too, if you want to. But look at all the countries. We are one of the only two countries to decline. And that, Prime Minister, it is not figures or parameters that are being reinvented. In your statement of government policy, this is almost the only evaluation parameter you had given yourself, almost the only place where it is encrypted. That is why, until the end of 2019, we will remain attentive to see how you evaluate this parameter. The fact that there are more young people, let me say that this is a good thing, including for pensions. And the fact that there are more young people is not a consequence of Brexit. Accept it, too! This is a parameter that you should consider when making your own employment rate statistics. For this reason, on this point, which according to your two-year policy statement is fundamental to you, you are in failure, you are in reverse, you are in backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u130	Mr Nollet, if it does you good, good! Although I think we can have some exchanges that remain intelligent, nevertheless, forgive me for reusing this term, these cartoons are completely counterproductive. From the figures on the socio-economically recreated activity in this country, I can send you wagons! I'll send them to you by whole trains! I can even send them to you at high speed! Mr Nollet, it is regrettable that you are leveling such a debate from the bottom by telling the Prime Minister that he has found the excuse of Brexit! No, it's the Plan Office that says so! There is a particular Belgian impact. We couldn't find the excuse that was right for us. These are objective elements, such as the figures I will give you. The fact that this government reduced the gap in terms of the lack of competitiveness vis-à-vis neighbouring countries seemed out of reach. The Government's actions have produced this result directly. In one year of government, 16,263 people chose to create their own jobs by becoming self-employed. This is in addition to the news of the drop in the number of bankruptcies, almost at a historical threshold. This is a reality that reflects the revival of economic activity in our country. We have information on the trade balance, which is coming out of red for the first time in ten years. Exports increased by 5.4% in 2016. Is it a coincidence that business confidence is also on the rise? Since the establishment of this team, 50,000 private jobs have been created. I quote a report from the ONEM. Our country still had 570,903 unemployed at the end of 2015. It is obviously too much, but it was almost twenty-five that we had not recorded such a low number. According to the report, youth unemployment continues to decline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u131	Mr Ducrame, I would like you to talk about the cars of numbers to send us – and do not hesitate to do so – but it has been two times in 24 hours that I hear about this record unemployment rate in 25 years. Can I have a little fact-checking exercise? It won't hurt anyone. Let us take an independent and neutral source: Eurostat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u132	The number of unemployed, not the rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u133	The unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u134	The number of unemployed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u135	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u136	Yes, you can. Let Mrs. Fonck speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u137	Mr President, thank you. Mr.Ducarme, the unemployment rate was 8.6% in December 2015 and even dropped to 8.1% in March 2016 – that's better. Has he ever been so low? In this case, I absolutely disagree with you. From October 2010 to October 2012, it was below the 8% mark. Worse, under your government, when you compare August 2015 and August 2016, the unemployment rate rose by 0.3%, even though it fell in Germany, France, the Netherlands, the euro area and the European Union. So your government was the worst student in the euro area. Yes, indeed, it is much worse than elsewhere. Mr Ducrame, it is not just a question of looking at the navel. We must, at some point, not portray an idyllic situation, but also be aware and honest about the situation in Belgium. Is this the best situation in the euro area in terms of employment and falling unemployment rates? No, it's the opposite! That is why we were waiting for you on ISOC, on the national level of public investment, and on the mobilization of savings towards the real economy. On these issues, your government has decided to postpone the action until later. We'll see if this "later" isn't a "never".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u138	I'm an honest man, Mrs. Fonck. At the outset, I did not present the situation as idyllic. Within this majority, we are aware that much remains to be done; but be honest in your turn! No, I didn't talk about the unemployment rate, I talked about the number of unemployed. I'd still like you to teach me the lesson. The political game imposes some demonstrations, but don't blame me for any information or variable I give while I give another! If we could also ensure that we respect each other in this way, things would probably be easier. Did I say your numbers were wrong? No. I'm giving some of them that nuance the disastrous portrait you want to present, since you're in the opposition. No, the portrait isn't disastrous. A number of economic variables tell us that progress has been made on some fronts, but we ask you to acknowledge that this government may have something to do with it. I don't want to ask you more than that honesty. The MR acknowledges that the road remains difficult, that much remains to be done in order to launch a dynamic in terms of business and employment. Yes, there is still a lot of work to be done! Prime Minister, in your statement you raised the issue of social dumping. It is clear that we want to create jobs. We create employment. We must also, beyond the support and support we provide to our businesses, ensure that we better protect jobs, businesses. A number of measures relating to this unfair competition, this social dumping, have been taken by this government and will continue, as you have indicated. But beyond what we can do here in Belgium, the Reform Movement asks you to continue to focus on European action. What we have experienced, especially at Caterpillar with this relocation to Grenoble, obviously raises major questions. This dossier embodies all intra-European competition between neighbouring countries, which is not acceptable to us. Our position is clear: free competition only makes sense if everyone respects the rules of the game. However, there is a lack of rules at play. At the European level, care must be taken to strengthen the Detachment Directive. As far as health is concerned, the debate has already begun earlier. I'm not going to reinvigorate him. I will simply recall a fact that everyone here is aware of: we must control the growth of our health care spending. It's not me either. It was recently recalled by the National Secretary of Christian Mutuality. All governments have made savings in health care. You, too, Mrs. Onkelinx, have produced a number of health care savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u139	I like this debate. Do you know that when I became Minister of Health, we agreed together to a 4.5% growth standard? As a result of the global economic crisis, we reduced it to 3 per cent. I have always said that, given the natural evolution of spending, despite this possible increase, it is necessary to make efforts. What's your problem? You have further reduced the standard to 1.5%. And on the basis of this 1.5% that is untenable, you are imposing additional savings. I say and I repeat that in 2017, you will be almost 0% of the standard of evolution. Maybe you'll be 0.1 or 0.2%. This implies massive savings in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u140	Mrs.Onkelinx, you were a minister in 2013, and in 2014 for part of the year. What is the reality of the figures? Here I have the table of nominal growth in the health care budget over the last few years. When you were a minister, actually, there was nominal growth of 2% and 1%, 1.8%. The nominal growth in this budget is 2.47%, plus EUR 500 million. The 900 million euros you systematically repeat do not correspond to the reality of the increase in nominal growth. They correspond to an evolution in relation to a standard of legal growth. That's the reality you should admit, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u141	We have continuously invested in health care while controlling the natural evolution of spending. We have been systematically beyond the evolution of economic growth during these periods. You expect economic growth of just over 1%, but you expect zero growth in health care. This differential is, in particular, EUR 900 million. Do you want some numbers? The 1.5% standard you have imposed is already untenable. It should be noted that already in 2015, the structural exceedance of the target was EUR 181 million. 2016 derails 138 million euros. The slippage in 2017 is 525 million euros. You can't manage the department, because you started off from a starting point for the budgetary objective far too low: 1.5, it was already far too low. Rather than finding that it is difficult, but that it must be done, you continue to dig harder, with new savings; it is totally insane.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u142	Mr President, I have before me an article in the newspaper Le Soir of February 19, 2014. At the time, Minister Laurette Onkelinx recalled that she limited the growth in health care spending to 2% between 2009 and 2013. We're at 2.47%. That's not all! She says: "I have made more than a billion savings while taking measures to make care more accessible". It completes: "Crying to the wolf is a sterile approach that serves only to worry the population". Stop yelling at the wolf, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u143	Your communication tricks, we're getting to know them! I'm glad we had 2.4% growth. Too bad you didn't offer it! Too bad you didn't get it! Every year, you can't manage the health care budget. And you're talking about 900 million euros in savings. In fact, the Liberals have criticized me enough in the government. I see the friendly face of my colleague De Croo. How many times, within the government, the tone has not been set by saying "it's too much for health care"? This time, he did it with you. This time, with Mrs De Block, we have zero growth. This time, with the Liberals, who stand well at this level, you are going to save 900 million euros and you are going to hit the patients. That's the truth! It's not a handle effect!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u144	(...) by preserving the patient, Madame Onkelinx, but we will come back to it later. If I wanted to point out that all governments had made savings, it was because, when I hear Mrs Onkelinx say in the media that she did not, I find it shocking in view of the truth that we are entitled to hear about it. Yes, a socialist Minister of Public Health has also made savings in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u145	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u146	Yes, of course...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u147	I don't want to talk to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u148	Yes, yes. Be contemptuous. A moment ago, you were showing some measure. Now you are in contempt. It's obviously closer to what you've used to! However, Mrs Onkelinx has acknowledged some positive aspects of our policy. Perhaps Mr Laaouej, who is here, will be the first to applaud us in this area. Indeed, Prime Minister, when we look at this budget that preserves purchasing power, we observe that the additional revenue is estimated at 592 million euros and we also see that 492 million comes exclusively from capital. We are moving towards a concept that is equally dear to the Reform Movement, that of tax fairness. It must be compatible with an attractive economy. The work on this synthesis and balance is being strengthened. If we take into account the exercise carried out during the last conclave and analyse the cumulative returns in terms of taxes on capital, we will reach 11 billion in 2019. We'll do better. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u149	When one quotes numbers, one pays attention! We'll do better. Yet I'm not a leftist. You know that, my dear Mr. Laaouej. We will do better in terms of capital taxes than the PS has ever done. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u150	This is something I wanted to bring to your knowledge. He'll probably light up this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u151	Mr Ducrame, I would like to point out to you that my "left" neighbour, finally on the benches, your colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne, told me that this was completely wrong, that this was not possible, that what you just said is not imaginable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u152	This was indeed wrong: the proceeds of the capital gains tax in our country are not EUR 11 billion but EUR 15 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u153	A number of audits will be conducted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u154	Some of you, on the benches of the Socialist Party, may be pleasantly surprised!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u155	Mr. Van Hees also wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u156	Mr Ducrame, I hear you say that this government has taxed capital more than any previous government. But, generally, when you are proposed to tax capital gains, to make a tax on millionaires or others, as a good Liberal, you say that you don't have to tax capital, otherwise you're going to run away from investors and discourage investment. All of a sudden, you have the opposite speech, you tell us: "We taxed capital at the level of so many billions...". I'd like to have the details of your figure of 11 billion. Also, explain the reasoning. When is it right or wrong to tax capital? When one targets precisely the richest 1%, that's wrong, but when one targets more globally any saver, that's good. Is that the difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u157	Very briefly, Mr Van Hees, but if you want to, we can also talk about it outside this House. I'll explain the philosophy of the tax shift. The will of this government, of this team, was indeed to reduce the burden on the work. That's our priority. I talked about the concept of tax fairness. Yes, our economy must remain attractive, but we are also contributing capital to this effort. The measures we have taken in terms of capital, we have added them to those taken jointly under the previous government of Mr Di Rupo, a socialist. Yes, we are doing more than the Socialist Party in this area. I know that shockes you. You may even be hurt to hear that. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u158	Another key element to address for the MR is the action that this government must pursue in the area of security and the fight against terrorism. I talked about the entrance. It is clear that what has been done over the last two years allows us to catch up with the delay in the fight against terrorism. There is still work to be done, but we can see that these new measures are bearing fruit. If we take back, for example, the information provided by Europol, it turns out that Belgium is the European country with the highest number of convictions for terrorism. We have been able to provide the legal tools that enable our services to punish and deactivate a number of people associated with terrorist attacks. There was also this €400 million envelope. This is an important effort which, on behalf of the MR, I would like to ask the minister responsible to ensure that the services are further supported so as to ensure, as soon as possible, that this envelope is made available in a comprehensive manner. Beyond 2016, it is essential that all planned budget allocations – a whole series of expenditures are recurrent – ensure committed staff but also allow for continued investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak on two points concerning Mr Ducarme's remarks. Mr Ducrame, what I am going to say to you is not new; we have been returning to it regularly since the beginning of the legislature. You're talking about catching up. Excuse me, but you have not yet caught up with the delay that you yourself created, at the budget level, at the beginning of the legislature, in 2014. You've created important holes in justice, police, intelligence. On the OCAM, you have achieved huge savings. At the time, you told us that you were saving linear on everything. We told you that it was the policy of non-choice, of non-priority. When you say that your government makes the fight against terrorism a priority, I do not agree, because, at the moment, in the budget that is presented, there is no supplementary euro. You just commented on the past. You just said that you put in an envelope of 400 million additional. This $400 million envelope is not enough to reset the counters to zero for safety. In addition, new missions have to be carried out since 2014, in particular with regard to attacks. You started your intervention with this. There has been a whole series of facts for which the mobilization of our services has been much more necessary. We can't do more with less; that's what we've always said. You have taken a series of legislative measures. Every time you announced it took seven to eight months to put them on Parliament's table and they were voted on. So, not only in terms of the budget, but also in terms of the implementation of the thirty measures that the government has announced, there is a great deal of delay. You have not been able to make up for the delay, your delay, either in terms of the budget or in terms of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u160	Every time, you release the same record. That's not it, I appreciate your voice. I'll have to show you some paintings, we'll have to look at them together, face a camera, maybe. Because when you tell us "less", I can't follow you in relation to reality. We're going to put the facts down. This will prevent us from having to come back, each time, with contradictions to reality. You weren't on a commission of inquiry. There, recently, for example, we received the services of the Security Service. We have seen an increase of €7 million for State Security alone. If you look at the Sûreté budget, you will see that, despite the departure, for example, of protection services to the federal police, the increase is extremely clear, if you compare it to all previous years. We're gonna put this down. Another point was that the measures took time. That's right. There was a lot to take. There were almost thirty to make up for the delay. Forgive me, but if Mrs Milquet had taken a number of steps when she was Minister of the Interior, we should not have done so! There was a bit of naivety in the head of your former Minister of the Interior. There were steps to be taken. The signs were there. With regard to the time it took, it is true, especially since they are sensitive subjects, because there are balances to be respected in terms of freedom and security. If you had done the job, these measures could have been put in place as soon as we came to power and we were confronted with Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u161	On this last point, Mr Ducarme knows very well that every time he says this, I repeat the same thing to him. In April 2012, a Kern met with proposals from Mrs Milquet, including the deprivation of nationality, already in the water. It was your government party that blocked these measures so as not to put them in Ms. Milquet's hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u162	No, ma'am, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u163	If you want, I'll pull the note out and we'll be able to watch. As for the figures, Mr. Ducrame, there is also a certain indecency to repeat that they have increased when we are in possession of the tables and can look at them together. My colleague will clarify the matter of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u164	Mr. Ducrame, the truth has its rights. First of all, with regard to this famous figure of EUR 400 million, I would like to point out that it was announced in the aftermath of the Paris attacks and that it has been tightened up for the past year in plenary session whenever the Prime Minister, Mr Jambon or you yourself, take the floor. It was also included in the Government statement. I asked the Budget Minister what had actually been spent on this $400 million. Do you know the answer? 86 million were spent, or 21 per cent. Don't say "no"; this is the response of the Budget Minister. It dates back to last week. What is the most important item of expenditure? It is the Defence, to the tune of 40 million, or almost half of the 86 million. In this case, they are intended for Vigilant Guardian. The remaining 26 million are devoted to justice. For the rest, we can't find much. It is therefore time to move from speech to action. Then you say that in the Terrorist Attacks Committee, we showed that the State Security had received the budgets. But it was exactly the opposite that Jaak Raes explained, who was also angry! He was furious because of the 7.3 million euros you just announced, he received only 1.7. He said it and repeated it. Do you know what the evolution of its budget is? I'll tell you. In 2012, 45,949,000 euros; 2016, 43,767,000 euros. That is the budgetary development of Mr Raes! While, as he himself points out, the burden has increased exponentially, his budget has decreased. He said in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry: "Despite a significant increase in the workload compared to the reference year 2010, the staff framework available during the same period has fallen by 11%". That's the reality of the numbers. In police matters, in the area of justice, we are at exactly the same level. The government has not increased security spending massively. He did not even catch up with the figures that existed before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u165	Mr Dallemagne, I agree with you that the truth has its rights! The truth is, we're busy using 300 of the 400 million. Contracts are under way, staff commitments are under way. Several hundred police officers are in training. You also know that half of this budget relates to investments for 2016. The rest relates to recurrent expenditure, which will therefore continue in the years to come. We have set the commitment of police officers at 1,600 for this year and 1,400 per year for next year. You're talking about state security. You know very well that there is a transfer of security personnel to the police! You're right, the truth has its rights!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u166	Mr. Minister of the Interior, I look at the expenses made, not the announcements. This EUR 400 million has been announced for a year!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u167	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u168	Minister, I didn't interrupt you. Listen to me! You're making this announcement a year ago. This is the first made by the government. Today, you are clear everywhere that it has been implemented. I am verifying and noting that only 21 per cent of this budget has been spent. For the rest you use tendering procedures. I'll believe you. But it must still be said that only 21 per cent have been disbursed. The Sûreté de l'Etat says that with a refinancing of 1.7 million euros - not 7.3 million as Mr Ducrame has just announced - it is well below its needs and what it had previously had in view of the burden it now has and the overtime it has had to pay its employees. We are not in refinancing at all, but in an alarming situation. The head of State Security has had a lot of courage, because it is not easy to come to parliament to announce that he does not have the means and that what he has received does not correspond to what was promised and what he needs. You have to hear it. Beyond the polemics between the majority and the opposition, what is worrying is that we do not respond to the terrorist threat. Mr. Grignard, a well-known police officer in the fight against terrorism, said that the best money is spent on intelligence. Today, we don't spend more than we used to. That is the reality of the figures, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u169	Mr Ducrame, I suggest you conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u170	I regret that you were so lying. On an issue as sensitive as this one, political instrumentalization is infected. It's infect. In relation to this, it is necessary to return to reason. Yes, there are a number of appropriations that are still being made available, but denying a number of appropriations that are being made available, which will be made available to the services, I find it intolerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u171	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity of Mr Ducrame's statement to ask him about the situation of OECDFO, the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime. Why do I do it at this time? Because, as everyone knows, if we are to fight terrorism effectively, we must also fight its financing effectively. However, we had with OECDFO an integrated strike force, with expertise, able to distil and understand the financial mounts that allow us to hide financial crime, on which the financing of terrorism will be based. However, this service is being dismantled. We have drawn attention on several occasions in various committees. Clearly, the government is trying to dismember this service. So I would like Mr. Ducarme to clarify the government's intentions. Is it or not, the goal is to blow up OECDFO in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u172	Mr President, I did not intervene, but frankly, the way in which Mr Ducrame reacts, I cannot let go. You accuse Georges Dallemagne of instrumentalization. I urge you to take a little more restraint. I understand it hurts you! I do understand that it hurts you to remember the major savings in the security departments, which you imposed in 2015. Today, you're catching up, but it doesn't erase those savings! I understand it hurts you when there's only $80 million committed out of the 400. I understand that it hurts you when we call back the words of the Chief Security Officer. I understand that it hurts you when you compare with our neighbouring countries. For example, France and the evolution of its budgets can be taken. To mention only the Justice budget, the latter increased by 13.6 per cent. During the same period, in Belgium, there was a decrease of 10.88 %. There's no picture! Finally, and most importantly, I understand that reminding you of the reality of these figures hurts you, which is explained by the fact that at the outset you did not understand the magnitude of the efforts that needed to be continued in the budgetary area, given the threat. But the security services, be it the police, the intelligence, the defence, but also the justice are on their knees! That is the reality you do not want to see! Yet this is a parameter that we should all be aware of. Indeed, their work is extremely difficult. And the reality is that in the first place, you have made major savings that you are trying – it is true – to catch up today. But then speed up your catch-up and, above all, sustain your actions because these services have a cruel need for human resources to function effectively in the face of an ever-increasing threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u173	Mr President, I would like to comment on the substance of the matter, because the issues that have just been raised are very important. Faced with this terrorist threat as we are, we must be very mobilized and ensure that statements are translated into actions. The majority and the opposition can, in my view, find themselves on this necessity. What are the facts? Where are we? On two occasions, we have mobilised interdepartmental provisions for security, i.e. initially EUR 200 million and secondly EUR 400 million. Here again, I would like to support what has just been explained. Of the 400 million in 2016, nearly 300 million have already been allocated to structural or investment-related projects. The proceedings are extremely well initiated. This means that, very quickly, in the coming weeks or months, we will be able to see that a much larger share than is the case today will have been spent. But everyone knows that when investing, when recruiting, procedures must be followed. Calls for tenders and deadlines for appeals must be taken into account. Sometimes there are also legal reactions. When recruiting staff, training is required so that staff can start their work in good conditions. I repeat the political commitment of the entire government to making progress on these elements. For the rest, we will have the debate, which we will lead to supporting figures in the budgetary framework. The Minister of Budget and the ministers responsible for security issues will show things very clearly. For example, when comparing the State Security framework today with that of a few months ago, it is not taken into account that a number of State Security officers (about 40 or 50) have been transferred to the police, including those in charge of the protection of public figures. You have to compare apples with apples! Mr Laaouej, as far as OECDFO is concerned, there has been a choice, not dismantling, but a choice to mobilise resources as close as possible to the public prosecutor's offices. There are no less agents mobilized, they are organized in a different way! On a regular basis, we will assess whether this choice is optimal and whether it contributes, as we wish, to improving the fight against all forms of crime, including financial crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has just arrived. As we are doing now, that is on the cover of everyone who is covered in the second round and even in the first round. I do not want to paralyze the debate and if anyone asks to speak, I have no choice but to give the floor. In fact, we are having a thematic debate now, but well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. What worries me, Prime Minister, is that you are announcing very large sums of money for security. And I see that in reality, we spent a lot less. I take the example of State Security, because it is both the most recent, the most striking and the most cruel: we know that our intelligence services are very, very few equipped compared to neighbouring countries. The head of the Sûreté recalled: there are intelligence services that cost 45 million euros; in the Netherlands they cost 200 million euros; in Sweden they cost 123 million euros. He did not ask for 15 or even 20 full-time equivalents, he asked for a doubling of his resources, i.e. from 570 to 1,150 full-time equivalents and for a doubling of his budget to €90 million. 45 million euros more! With regard to the total amount of security expenditure, I think that is where they really need to be put. We're not talking about 1, 2 or 3 million... we're wondering if tomorrow we'll have intelligence services up to the terrorist threat. That is my question, of course. There is a second thing I would like to say to the Prime Minister. I hear the budget volumes. But I also hear that they are not being spent at a rate that seems decent to me. One year after the announcement of these 400 million, I find it inappropriate to spend only one fifth of them in reality. And the point I want to make is that my fear is that we are using a fairly conventional budgetary technique: we are announcing large volumes, we are seeing after a year that we have not spent them and we are recycling them the following year, we are announcing again a volume devoted to security. That's what your government did. He went to look for a whole series of expenses that have not been realized the means to refinance his action for the future. That's what I'm worried about! Let us recycle this money infinity, as we do today!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u176	Mr President, I would like to go back to what the Minister of the Interior has said. It is well known that the 2015 standard of engagements at the police level has fallen to 800 officers. In 2016, it was slightly increased by 300 agents. So the delay you've accumulated over two years cannot be eliminated in one year. The current standard of commitments will not be met. You know that the strict minimum is 1,400 agents. This is the strict minimum for basic missions, without terrorism complements. So, although you're talking about reorganisation at the federal police level, I repeat to the envious that you are undressing Jacques to redress Paul. And that's not what it takes. Above all, there is a need for new resources and a sustainable police budget. You don't have to make one shots and promise commitments to recreate a hole the following year because you can't fill the holes you created yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u177	Mr President, I do not want to participate in this discussion about the amounts. I would like to ask the government to study how to simplify the procedures that it has developed. You were the government of administrative simplification, but apparently there are major difficulties. To have its ICT investments, the State Security had to wait nine months. There are so many control procedures for new commitments and these are so hard that the first 19 will arrive only next month. Like you, I believe that it is on the basis of a reinforcement of State Security and Army Security that we can better fight terrorism. But you must make efforts in terms of procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u178	Mr President, I wish to return to the future of OECDFO. First of all, I thank the Prime Minister for his response. I am also pleased to hear him say that he is concerned about the matter. But, Prime Minister, I would like above all to point out to you that in the face of international and transnational phenomena that are known in the context of financial crime, in particular the financing of terrorism, but not only in this field, you need a service with national competence where tax, legal, banking law expertise – to name but a few examples – is centralised with integrated international connections. Decentralization, such as the one you are putting in place where the services will deal, in an episodic way, with the cases that are coming in, and in a cyclical and not permanent way, is a bad choice. You need an integrated strike force. I know that there is a tendency within the police to try to convince you to go towards decentralization, but that is a mistake. Judges and police officers came to explain to us in Panama Papers' committee that this loss of expertise would result in a huge budgetary cost to public finances. For example, in the fight against VAT carousels, there will be a decline in efficiency. I am linking up with the debate we have because in the fight against the financing of terrorism, you need this integrated service. You still have an opportunity to review the file. It's not too late. But believe me, every day that passes is a lost day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u179	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, I fully agree with you. The rules are too complex, but it was not me or this government that invented them. It is clear that we must review them, see how we can simplify them. Currently, the Finance Inspectorate has a great influence in this process. But I agree with your analysis. Mrs. Matz, I just have one question. You say we need to recruit 1,400 police officers a year. How many years did the previous minister hire 1,400 police officers? I'll answer you one year. Just the last year of the legislature. We have committed ourselves to doing so for at least three successive years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u180	An important comment was made on OECDFO. I do believe that we need a strike force that is also international in scope. I really want to stress that our intention is to assess the situation, to see how we can do better. We have already begun to do so, particularly with regard to the possible freezing of terrorist assets. We make decisions on this subject on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u181	Minister of the Interior, the level of alerts in 2012 and 2013 may not have been quite the same. The precincts are level three. The standard of engagement was, for two years, 1,300 police officers and for one year, 1 400, in four years of the legislature, since there was a small cut. Missions have increased enormously, the level of alert has also increased and has nothing to do with the level of 2012 and 2013. We were in an extremely high standard of engagement. In 2015, you dropped it to 800, and in 2016 to 1,100.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u182	I believe that the thematic debate will be interesting. He will continue at that time. There are a number of elements that we do not share, but I am not going to relaunch the debate on this now. I have been in the gallery since 1:40 a.m., and I would like to leave room for other speakers. Before I conclude, I will return to one element of the government's policy that I want to highlight, Prime Minister. These are the excellent results in terms of asylum and immigration. At European level, much remains to be done. But at the level of Frontex, the crisis we have encountered and its repercussions, the crisis of 2015 and the consequences it still has today, and the Syrian conflict, I must pay tribute to the work carried out by Secretary of State Franken in this area. At MR, we believe that the results are right, in the balance between firmness and humanism we want in the area of asylum and immigration. A special mention is that the cooperation between Secretary of State Franken and Minister Geens on the very large number of illegal dismissals in their country will have to be continued. These are quite exceptional results. We naturally ask them to continue their action. Prime Minister, we have obviously been able to discuss the issues involved in these reforms. At the level of the Reform Movement, we have some requirements. The first in the context of the reforms that are being implemented in terms of purchasing power, in terms of socio-economic security as well, is to remain at the same time attentive and stubborn in relation to the objectives that we must meet. It is about meeting the reality as it is and adapting through these necessary reforms rather than experiencing negative realities. Another element in terms of requirements for the Reform Movement is of course that we are judged on our results and exclusively on them, not on the sketch of either member of the opposition. Yes, Mrs. Fonck, I did speak of sketch as there are sometimes in the Leader of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u183	Mr. President, it's personal. I am speaking to the Prime Minister. If you have a debate about facts, figures, data from Eurostat or other independent bodies, if you have a debate, Prime Minister, about the economic reality of our country, about the reality of the fight against terrorism - and it is on all these aspects that we have been dealing with since this morning - if you have a debate about the stakes with regard to the direct and indirect impact on the patient on health, if that for you, if that for the MR, is sketch, frankly, it does not grow up. This shows in substance that you are showing some form of contempt for the debate here in the House. I appeal for respect because that is something I cannot accept! What Mr. Ducarme said in the rostrum is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u184	Since the beginning of the morning, I have tried to react to the arrests with great calm. I want to reaffirm our commitment to a calm, dignified and respectful debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u185	I'll take the word off. I'd love to. There's a bit of annoyance. And on the liberal benches, we are sometimes a little annoyed to see our humanist liberalism dirty with social values. The cartoons are annoying us. And I must say, Prime Minister, yesterday in the rostrum, you referred to those Belgians who are having difficulties at the end of the month, 21% of whom can turn into poverty. Because our liberalism is of general interest, it is for those too that we have committed ourselves. Shared wealth must be created for all Belgians. That's our goal. That is what makes up the fibre of our liberalism and it is because you are going in this direction that the MR group will give confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u186	Mr President, I no longer wanted to speak at all, but by hearing Mr Ducrame speak of values, of humanist liberalism, I still allow myself a very rapid intervention. When I see the silence of the Liberals in the face of the words of the N-VA group leader, who says that "if we get a majority with the Vlaams Belang, we will demand Flemish independence", I say this: "Liberal friends, wake up, assume your values, reaffirm your values, and above all, stop blindly supporting a government and words like these!" Two years ago, when the N-VA was not in the government, you would never have accepted, in a deafening silence, that such statements should be made in relation to the far right, in relation to an alliance with the far right, and in relation to the independence of Belgium. Wake up your values!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u187	Mr Flahaux, is that really necessary? Mr. Flahaux...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u188	I am very happy to hear Ms. Fonck talk about values... I hope it will encourage her to adopt the same rules for her. As we always say, "Well-ordered charity begins with oneself", because when we sit with Alexandra Mussolini and Orbán, within the EPP, it would be a matter of being careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u190	Mr President, as far as the organisation of work is concerned, I would like to check whether we have already received the budget documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip132x.u191	Not at this point, Mr. Nollet. We'll resume the meeting at 3:10 p.m. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, that is workable work. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Monday 17 October 2016 at 3.10 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Monday, 17 October 2016 at 3.10 p.m.
