ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u1	Mr. Clarinval's question 9942 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u2	Minister, since last year there has been a digital database for inmates in use. The Privacy Commission recently questioned who all had access to that database. For example, the Regions also have access. In addition, the program would not allow for the creation of different types of access, so that, for example, certain instances can only receive read but not write permissions, or only see a limited number of data. The Privacy Commission is also concerned about the lack of a legal basis for the database, in practice that the data is passed on to externals without permission from the federal government's sectoral committee. In mid-2015 you made a proposal on this, but since then it has remained quiet in that area. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. First of all, who currently has access to that database? What information can these data subjects or bodies consult and modify? Secondly, what action should be taken on data contained in the database be authorised by the federal government's sectoral committee? Is that currently happening, or do you agree with the criticism of the Privacy Commission that this is not happening at the moment? Finally, where are you on the preparation of the legal framework for that database?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u3	Minister, last year, Sidis Suite was rolled out, a fully digitized database that keeps track of all records of the detainees, such as convictions, disciplinary penalties, transfers, leave and possible risk behaviour. That information is important, because I will never forget the headline that reported that the Justice Department doesn't know his own prisoners. Of course, that database can fix that. At least the prisons know what meat they have in the tub when someone is transferred. In the past, this information transfer didn't always run smoothly. As Mr Van Hecke said, the Privacy Commission strongly criticises the database in an opinion. The chairman of the committee says that the data should be handled very carefully. If the wrong people could use them, for example, to deal with someone or to get a terrorist out, then of course there is a problem. It is argued that the system does not adequately regulate which people have access to it and who can modify data and who does not. The federal government has concluded a cooperation agreement with the Flemish government in connection with the database. Given that the regions have now become responsible for helping and providing services to prisoners, they also need access to that database. I would like to ask you the following questions. Who has access to the database and how? How to check who is viewing which data? How to prevent misuse of the database? In what way will you try to respond to the criticism of the Privacy Commission? Has any agreement been reached with the other regions regarding the use of the database? If not, what is the situation there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u4	Currently, two categories of users have access to Sidis Suite in order to execute their commands. A first category is users with reading and writing rights, which are the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Establishments. Users' writing rights depend on their function and position in the setting. Furthermore, the Department of Foreign Affairs can only edit information related to the residence status of the detainees and consult the files. A second category is users with read-only rights, namely the courts, the judiciary, the security of the State, the police, certain staff or assimilated from the Directorate-General of the penitentiary institutions, for example members of the Communities who offer assistance to prisoners. The system keeps track of when which user has consulted which information is called logging. A tighter control of the Privacy Commission is currently possible when a problem occurs, for example in the case of a complaint or a data breach. My administration is preparing a bill that creates a legal framework for Sidis Suite. In that draft law, the government will make a proactive application of the European Privacy Regulation, which is only applicable in 2018, by providing an internal security consultant responsible for compliance with the privacy rules. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have decided together on such a proactive application of the privacy regulation in the electronic meaning platform. Moreover, with the entry into force of the Regulation, the Privacy Commission will have autonomous inspection, investigation and sanction powers. As regards the prevention of abuse, I refer to the aforementioned modulated access management, the also mentioned login of each consultation, the general discretion and professional secrecy to which the respective users are subject, the ICT technical security of the system, the general security and information policy of the federal government, in particular the FPS Justice and the role of the information security advisers appointed to the FPS Justice Department. With regard to the principle of authorisation of the federal government's sectoral committee, the committee's criticism is justified. The Committee refers to Article 36 of the Privacy Act which provides that the authorisation is generally required for any electronic communication of personal data by a federal government or by a public body with legal personality under the federal government. Applications for authorisation are currently being completed. In addition to the cooperation agreement with Flanders of 28 June 2014, there is also an agreement with the French Community and the Walloon Region of 23 May 2014. These cooperation agreements do not concern the use of Sidis Suite, but cooperation with the social helpers appointed by the Regions and the Communities who operate in prisons at the voluntary request of the detainees. Within that framework, social helpers may have access to the detention file after prior information has been provided to the prisoner concerned and at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u5	Minister, I note that everything will be put in order so that the database complies with current legislation. I am, of course, looking forward to the draft bill you are preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u6	Mr Minister, I may have missed it in your quick answer, but when will you come to the Chamber with the bill? When will that be about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u7	That will be, as always, immediate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u8	Minister, I assume you were also shocked by the recent report in a newspaper about a prisoner who sent an e-mail containing a photograph with a middle finger to his victim's mother. It is reported that not only was there this email, but the man had also documented his Facebook profile under his own name in that sense. In principle, the use of a mobile phone and uncontrolled internet use by the prisoners in prison is prohibited. We know that using PrisonCloud for inmates in some prisons is possible controlled use of the Internet, for example in order to apply. However, this platform does not allow access to social media. How is it possible that a prisoner can maintain a profile on social media and send such e-mails? How does one take action when such matters are identified? May I assume there are no problems with PrisonCloud's security? In what way will this safety be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u9	Minister, Mrs Van Cauter has already outlined the problem. Recently the painful story appeared in the media that an inmate could place free photos on the internet and Facebook with quite provocative photos that were very shocking for the victims. Normally, a convict in prison couldn't possibly be on the Internet. There is the system of PrisonCloud, but I thought it was very regulated to which websites the inmate can or cannot surf. How is it possible that a prisoner could still post photos on Facebook? How will this be avoided in the future? Can sanctions be imposed against prisoners who are still on the Internet despite the ban? If so, which one? In what way is it avoided within PrisonCloud that such things can happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is forbidden for prisoners to have a cell phone or smartphone in jail. However, where he unlawfully has such a phone in the cell, that phone can easily create and/or maintain a Facebook profile, provided that it is connected to the internet. However, where an inmate transmits his or her username and passwords to third parties, these persons may also post or send mails under the name of the inmate. When an inmate is caught in this situation, regularly sweepings are organised, the penalty imposed is a decision of the local management team. If required, this can be done in consultation with the Regional Executive Board and/or the Director-General. Through PrisonCloud it is impossible to surf social media, such as Facebook. For limited access to the Internet, a white list is used. Websites like Facebook are not on this list. When a website is visited that is allowed, it is also impossible to click on prohibited websites such as Facebook from there. It is the local management, in consultation with the regional management and the Director-General, who validates the final white list for PrisonCloud. The security of PrisonCloud consists of different layers. First of all, any authorised website is delivered within PrisonCloud via an icon. Only through that icon can the website be opened. Secondly, in addition to the icons within PrisonCloud, we use a firewall to connect to the internet. On this firewall a white list is used again. Thirdly, if the authorised website contains a link to another website, whether or not authorised, it is not possible to call it up. Fourthly, the inmate does not have the ability to type in an address himself. All the beams are hidden and cannot be summoned. Fifth, the prisoner's surfing behavior is monitored. For example, it is possible to check at any time which website is being visited, when and over what time period. In addition to the above safeguards, an agreement was also concluded with an external security company to regulate the PrisonCloud Internet traffic. After implementing its security software, in addition to working with the existing white list, we will be able to use an additional white list that allows us to secure contact forms, forums, blogs and so on within an approved website. The implementation of this is planned in half of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u11	Mr Minister, I note that improper use of PrisonCloud by security is excluded. However, the possession of cell phones in the cell, which is forbidden, is an old very. I would urge you to check that as much as possible. I assume, however, that you will do what is necessary, not only in view of the facts that have given rise to this question. After all, it is important to avoid committing or directing crimes outside the prison walls from the cell. I assume, however, that you are aware of this and that this will be followed closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u12	Minister, your answer is a little double: it cannot be done and it can be done. It's not allowed, but it's happening. We must ensure that such incidents are kept to a minimum. I am counting on the initiatives that are being taken and on the sweeps and controls that are being carried out, because such matters are not acceptable. I look forward to further initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u13	Minister, the law introducing electronic surveillance as an autonomous punishment originally stipulated that the sentenced person could be subject to individualised special conditions, if necessary in order to minimise the risk of recurrence, and in the interests of the victim. You will recall the exchange of views following the creation of the potpourri II Act, which, as it were, included the conditions of the offender in the law on the introduction of electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty. At that time we expressed our concern, Minister. Recently, we were able to read in a study instructed by the VUB that it is very important that when a person is subject to a sentence under electronic supervision, now in order to carry out a prison sentence but also in the future as an autonomous sentence, the conditions imposed by the police and the judicial assistants are followed as closely as possible. There is a need for individual guidance and an individual journey. Mr Minister, with this study in mind, and following the incidents that have recently come to our attention, I have produced three questions for you. Do you not think that the limitation to victim-related conditions will limit too much the necessary guidance from judicial assistants? Are there enough legal assistants at the moment to comply with the conditions, or is there a problem? I am aware that you are not competent in this matter, but I assume that you are consulting with your competent colleagues. How is the consultation going and can a genuinely efficient policy be put in place in this area? In view of the recent events and in view of the objectification by the study, are you considering reintroducing the perpetrator-oriented conditions, at least for very serious crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u14	Minister, as Mrs Van Cauter has already outlined, we have recently learned from the media, including the media, that the supervision of electronic surveillance at the late stages is inadequate or not sufficient. Your predecessor in the previous legislature, Minister Turtelboom, decided, partly because of savings, to delete the prior social investigation. There was also savings at the justice houses. Meanwhile, the justice houses have been regionalised, without the corresponding budgets. Since then, the guidance of persons with an ankle bracelet has proved to be a pain point. Research by the VUB shows that the lack of guidance leads to many frustrations with wearers of an ankle bracelet. If the anklet can soon be imposed as an autonomous penalty, there is a risk that the problem will become even greater. Minister, how is adequate guidance guaranteed for persons under electronic supervision? What measures have been agreed with the Communities, which have taken over power since the last state reform? Is the re-evaluation of the previous social survey considered in the cases in which this could be useful? What will be the consequences of the more limited conditions that can now be imposed on electronic surveillance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u15	You refer to one of the potpourri laws which clarifies the general and individualised special conditions in the execution of electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the State in the form of aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') and with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European In addition to imposing the general conditions, in particular not committing criminal offences, having a fixed address, responding to the calls made by the competent electronic surveillance service and complying with the specific provisions laid down by that service, individualised special conditions shall be determined in the interests of the victim, such as the prohibition of entering certain places or contacting the victim, and/or conditions relating to the compensation of the victim. The possibility of imposing special conditions is indeed limited, but we must not forget that from 1 May 2016 the probation can also be pronounced as an autonomous punishment. If the judge considers that the most appropriate penalty is in a trial period which focuses on the follow-up of special conditions, he may opt for that punishment instead of for electronic supervision. It is difficult to assess how the judges will apply the new penalties and what the consequences are. This will have to be evaluated, as set out in Article 26 of the new Probation Act. Electronic surveillance as a punishment is, for the sake of clarity, only possible if the criminal court finds that the offence committed is such as to be punishable by a prison sentence of not more than one year. Certain infringements are also expressly excluded from the scope. The duration of the sentence under electronic supervision shall be at least one month and not more than one year. Article 44 of the potpourri II Act to which I have just referred was discussed in the IMC Justice Houses and is therefore the result of consultations, as required by the cooperation agreement of 17 December 2013 concerning the performance of the tasks of the justice houses. The IMC shall hold regular consultations on the implementation of electronic surveillance. Staff capacity is also discussed. I would advise you to put your questions to the relevant Community ministers, who have been competent since 1 January 2015, both in terms of staffing capacity and in terms of providing guidance to persons under electronic supervision. I know that today these ministers are committed to more tailor-made work and are committed to a more focused commitment of framework and support. The Communities also emphasise a good flow of information for those subject to electronic supervision as an autonomous penalty. If people know where they stand in concrete terms, it increases the chances of a successful execution. Mrs De Wit, I would like to make it clear that the social survey in the context of electronic surveillance has not been completely abolished. For example, there is still a social survey for electronic surveillance as a mode of execution for custodial sentences up to three years in cases where the prison director considers that special conditions should be imposed. This is specified in the letter of 17 March 2013. Article 37 (3) of the Law of 7 February 2014 establishing electronic supervision as an autonomous penalty provides for the possibility to carry out a summary information report and/or a social survey. I will consider, in consultation with the Community ministers concerned, whether an extension of the application of the social survey could be envisaged. A social survey can be a powerful tool, but needs to be used wisely, provide added value and can be carried out at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have listened carefully to you. If I have understood you correctly, the individual offender-oriented conditions may still be imposed upon trial. I assume that you agree with the usefulness of such measures, but probation is still a lighter punishment than electronic surveillance, even if it is imposed as an autonomous punishment. I do not want to polemicize today, but I think we are all aware of the usefulness of individual perpetrator-oriented conditions. I would ask you, however, to keep a close eye on the issue and, where necessary, to intervene. I realise that you cannot go beyond the scope of the question today, but I think we are all aware of the usefulness of such conditions. I shall come back briefly to the social survey. In my view, it was not intended to decide on electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty if there is not enough useful information available. In certain cases, the court or criminal court imposing a penalty already has certain data at its disposal by means of a morality inquiry. It makes no sense, then, to repeat the same exercise, while the services are already over-questioned. I hope that the law on electronic supervision will also be applied as an autonomous punishment. Minister, I am fully aware of the fact that the prosecution of the sentence has been defed by the judicial assistants, but I assume that your concern extends to the further execution of the sentence and that you are having sufficient consultations with the competent colleagues to make them aware, where necessary, that there is a need to step up, because I think that is indeed the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u17	Thank you very much for your partial reply, Minister. I'll take a closer look. Of course, I am aware that a number of things are now the responsibility of the regions and that my fellow Members can ask questions there. However, it remains a fact that electronic supervision is essential, even within the framework of the policy that you yourself must and wish to pursue here. I think it is essential that proper consultation is carried out on this issue. We need to look at how we can make things work smoothly. If we want to work with electronic surveillance, which in itself could be a good alternative, and the system fails, then there is also a problem for your policy. That is why the criticism is also that the state reform in this area is fragmented. (Protests from Mrs Van Cauter) I've never been in favour of working in splinter. I've always been in favour of big pieces. We have not approved this state reform, and you will remember that, especially in view of the lack of the corresponding budgets. The problem is that this is what determines your policy here. I believe that we must ensure, through talks with the regions and good agreements, that electronic surveillance is properly monitored as an autonomous punishment. In any case, it must not become a pointless measure. Today it is sometimes said that it could no longer be an alternative, and that is not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u18	I'd like to reassure the anxious ladies anyway. I spent two hours this afternoon with the relevant Community ministers. I don't think we should be doing rear-guard battles in that area. Our country now has no message of rearguard combat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u19	Question No 10295 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed. Questions Nos 10222 and 10231 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u20	Mr President, Minister, you will probably remember that, I asked you in plenary session on 28 January about why some mosques did not comply with the NBA Act, which provides for the deposit of accounts at the National Bank or the Registry of the Commercial Court, and the Worship Act. You recalled in your reply – I quote you –: "the rule in our country is that recognized cults cannot, under any circumstances, receive subsidies from abroad." As a result of this question, I would like to ask you for some figures. Could you tell me how many mosques have deposited their accounts at the National Bank or at the competent court office, in relation to the totality of the recognized mosques? What is the situation in Brussels in particular? For those who have not, have you taken any initiatives since my question of January 28th? You told me that mosques that were not officially recognized as places of worship were not subject to the Law on Worship, which included the prohibition of foreign financing. How many mosques are not officially recognized when they are actually a place of worship? With regard to the Cinquantenaire mosque, was it true that it was not a recognized place of worship, whereas the concession contract between the Belgian State and the ASBL Centre Islamic et Cultural de Belgique provided that the building was intended to be used as a mosque? How can this paradox be explained? You also indicated in the plenary session that you would consider whether it would be possible to give the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF) the task of examining whether or not such unrecognized places of worship receive foreign liberalities. Have you actually done this work? What is the result of this? Do the problems I describe here with regard to Muslim worship exist for other cults?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u21	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, as in my previous reply, I can tell you that mosques which are in the form of an ASBL or which are managed by an ASBL must comply with the legal rules governing this type of legal form. The Associations Act provides for specific penalties, as well as for small, large or very large associations, if they have not deposited their annual accounts, respectively, at the Registry and at the National Bank. As far as the recognition of mosques is concerned, I can tell you that 14 are currently recognised in Brussels. Given my initiatives within the government to increase this number, 10 files are in administrative and political order at the level of the Region and are currently being studied by my services. A dozen other Brussels mosques are currently seeking the same recognition. I discussed the issue of accounts with the College of Attorneys General. On 23 February, he told me that, in order to deal with the macro-financing of terrorism, the federal prosecutor suggested amending the legislation in force to allow the Financial Information Processing Unit to denounce financing operations from certain foreign countries considered to be suspects. The College also told me that it would continue its efforts in the various BELFI projects. Similar initiatives have been taken in Antwerp and Liège. Through this project coordinated by the Attorney General's Office, the Federal Judicial Police, in partnership with the police areas, the State Security and the Judicial Police Section specializing in the fight against terrorism, developed a list of entities that could be monitored. Since the launch of the BELFI project, forty-two of them have been inspected. In the context of the recent Canal Plan, some municipalities are particularly targeted and are subject to priority controls, which, however, are not restricted to mosques. There are many close contacts with CTIF regarding the need to amend the law on money laundering beyond the changes that have already been made in the law "pot-pourri II". As a reminder, the latter fills a gap, since it allows CTIF to transmit information to intelligence services and OCAM on its own initiative. Consideration should also be given to the draft law on data collection by the same services, which is currently before the Council of State. Discussions are still under way with CTIF to see whether there is a need for further clarification of the law on money laundering or whether the combination of the two legislative initiatives I have just mentioned is sufficient. The objective is, in all cases, to encourage a better involvement of CTIF in monitoring the financing of radicalism. The concession contract with the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium was concluded under the responsibility of the Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. To obtain a copy of the contract, I invite you to address the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I take note of a series of information. On the other hand, you do not answer the first question, which mosques have submitted their accounts. The answer to this question is extremely important, as well as to carry out useful actions in this context. You remind us that these non-profit organizations can be sanctioned and dissolved. I understand that you have a power of injunction in this regard. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has it and can dissolve non-compliance with the law. I will come back to you with this question because it is extremely important to demand that these non-profit organizations publish their accounts. On the other hand, with regard to international financing, I am astonished at the paradox that you are not responding to. I am not asking you for the concession contract for the Cinquantenaire Mosque since it is the minister who has the public buildings in his jurisdiction that must be asked to do so. This was done and I received the answer that it was a building that had been granted to make it a mosque. The paradox that I would like to stress with you is that while this building is a mosque in fact, accreditation as a mosque has not been sought and can therefore receive international funding. This gives the impression that it has almost been intentional not to be accepted as a mosque in order to be able to benefit from international financing. But even an ASBL, if I understand correctly, must receive the approval of the Minister of Justice to receive gifts beyond 100,000 euros. In this regard, too, one may wonder whether it has received gifts in excess of 100 000 euros and this question cannot be answered since this ASBL does not publish its accounts! I ask you to ensure that the government takes initiatives to ensure that these non-profit organizations finally publish their accounts and that those of them who are places of worship are required to apply for a licence to practise as places of worship. This seems essential to me in the current context. I still have very recent reports of massive foreign financing from Saudi Arabia and Qatar to certain places of worship, and I think that should stop. We now have the legal instruments that allow us to put an end to these financings. I am thinking of the NSAs Act, which requires the publication of accounts. It is not difficult to send them a letter asking them to comply and to make them understand that those who do not will be dissolved. It should also be recalled that the Law on Worship prohibits international financing. I welcome new legislative developments, but you already have enough instruments to put an end to these financings. I have just heard that funding of about 600,000 euros has just arrived on the account of an ASBL running a mosque. This seems to me to be extremely worrying information in the current context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the Act of 4 December 2012 amending the Nationality Code entered into force on 1 January 2013. It has significantly changed the way in which citizenship is acquired as well as the way in which naturalization is acquired. It is interesting to know how and to what extent this law has been used by foreign persons to become Belgian citizens. On the other hand, it would also be useful to know whether the enforcement of the law is functional and rapid in order to avoid the number of pending cases that we know of in the Naturalizations Commission. Minister, how many applications have been submitted per year, in the different types of acquisition of nationality, as well as in naturalization applications? In these applications, how many were accepted, by category, and within what average time frame? Especially what assessment do you make of the application of this law three years after its entry into force? What difficulties have arisen as a result of the application of this law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u24	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, there is no statistical data on the number of applications to acquire Belgian nationality for the simple reason that the municipalities do not enter these data into the national register. Nor does my administration have the information on the average time taken to process applications for Belgian nationality. However, with regard to acquisitions of nationality, with the exception of naturalisations, I can send you a table showing the number of applications broken down by article of the Belgian Nationality Code for the years 2013 to 2015 inclusive. Thus, the number of naturalisations in 2013 was 8,168, 3,005 in 2014 and 4,814 in 2015. All these naturalizations took place in accordance with the old law, except for the year 2015 in which 12 naturalizations were granted under the new law. The application of the latter is subject, in practice, to an ongoing evaluation. Thus, in order to make the law as comprehensible as possible, the Law of 25 April 2014 on various provisions in the field of justice has made technical improvements and simplifications. If the need arises in the future, the necessary adjustments will be introduced through legislative initiatives. To this end, my services are currently conducting an in-depth assessment of the legislation to examine what improvements and future adjustments would be desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u25	I will look carefully at the tables and eventually come back to more specific issues. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u26	Mr President, my approach is similar to that of Mr Laaouej, absent. Perhaps his question will come back to me and I will be able to put it to the minister precisely because of course we are on the same page. For the sake of transparency and correction, I would like to point out that the question that is being asked of the minister is also being asked of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt. Indeed, we believe that we are in the context of a cross-cutting issue concerning the vulture funds law. Minister, on 12 July 2015, Belgium adopted a pioneering law against vulture funds. As a reminder, investment funds buy back government bonds or claims on States at low prices, then initiate legal proceedings and thus require them to pay the face value of such bonds or claims at the time of issue, plus interest on a moratorium. The text adopted by Belgium is intended to complement the current legislation by offering the Belgian courts more effective means of combating the action of vulture funds. The law allows magistrates to refuse a fund that would be described as "vulture" to recover more than the amount to which it originally acquired the disputed claim. At the end of March, two funds filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court against this provision, primarily attacking its constitutionality. This attack on the law only demonstrates its importance and regulatory role in dealing with these vulture funds. In the face of these criticisms, it is important to recall that "the constitutional rules of equality and non-discrimination do not preclude a difference in treatment between categories of persons, provided that it is based on an objective criterion and is reasonably justified". A difference in treatment can therefore be considered constitutional, provided that it is based on objective and reasonably justified criteria. These criteria are clearly set out in the law in order to leave no doubt to the magistrates in charge of such cases. The MR Group therefore reiterates its support for the legislation and its commitment to the objectives that motivated parliamentarians to adopt it: the firm will to act in a clear and meaningful way against the immoral action of certain speculators who take advantage of the economic fragility of debtor countries to enrich themselves at the expense of local populations. We also remain convinced that you will take all necessary measures while respecting, of course, the separation of powers emanating from our Constitution. Minister, how do you respond to this request? Are you considering taking steps to ensure an effective defence of this provision? If so, could you tell us which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u27	Mr Scourneau, as you point out, the House of Representatives unanimously voted the law of 12 July 2015 on the fight against vulture funds. It entered into force on 21 September. I can therefore tell you that until the Constitutional Court has sanctioned a law, it is applicable in all its aspects, without prejudice to international treaties and European Union law. Therefore, I have every confidence that the authorities responsible for issuing enforceable titles will apply it. In addition, I have received confirmation from the Chancellery that the application for annulment before the Constitutional Court has been communicated to the Ministry of Finance. I have no doubt that this administration will ensure that this legislation is effectively and adequately defended before the Court. I therefore invite you to ask the Minister of Finance about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u28	Minister, I will be questioning the Minister of Finance this afternoon! Since the law came out of effect, would you know of any pending cases that target vulture funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u30	Minister, in August 2014, the Objective 4 nuclear reactor was shut down after an act of sabotage. Of course, an investigation was started at that time. At the end of December 2014, the nuclear reactor was restarted. At that time, the investigation had not yet been completed. As a result of the suspected sabotage, additional security measures were taken. During the exchange of views in the Nuclear Safety Subcommittee at the beginning of this year, your fellow Minister for the Interior, Mr Jambon, confirmed that the judicial investigation was still ongoing. However, he said that we should be with you for further information. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us an update on the investigation? Do we have a timing for completing this investigation? In the current security issue, it is important to be able to draw the necessary conclusions from what has happened there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u31	Mrs. Temmerman, the federal prosecutor informs me that the judicial investigation is still active. This is partly due to the thoroughness with which it is fed. You will understand that interim conclusions and considerations are a secret of the investigation, and that must be closely monitored in this dossier. Your question as to what measures will be linked to the findings of the investigation is therefore premature to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u32	Mr. Secretary, do you have a time to complete the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u33	The federal court has not provided me with any information on this, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u34	Mr Minister, this question is in line with the question I raised earlier, but it was a different one. This is certainly not a rearguard fight, Minister. This is a concern that determines the policy of punishment that you and we in Parliament want to further develop. The Länder are responsible for the electronic monitoring and placing of ankle tyres. Those ankle bracelets are important to you. They are also important for the execution of the sentence. It is also being used in the context of pre-trial detention. You are planning, according to your justice plan, even an extension of it. Soon the anklet can also be imposed as an autonomous punishment. The anklet is therefore an important tool in the execution of the sentence. I have heard that the tender dossier for new and modern ankle tyres in Flanders has been missed. There were apparently irregular and unacceptable offers, on which the department decided not to grant the ankle bracelets and to start further negotiations with one company. Competitors appealed against this to the Council of State. At the end of March, he suspended the decision. The procedure must therefore be repeated. This means that you still have a long time to do with the 960 current, old ankle bracelets. I understand from your reply earlier that you had discussions with your Flemish colleague this afternoon. What are the consequences for the current federal criminal execution policy? Are there enough ankle bracelets to ensure that the sentence is executed correctly? Is there another chance of waiting lists? Is the entry of the anklet as an autonomous sentence in danger?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u35	Mrs De Wit, the availability of ankle straps is a challenge for all Communities, including the Flemish. I am committed to a continuous and constructive dialogue with the relevant ministers on the use of ankle ties in my criminal and criminal execution policies. This afternoon I had a meeting with the three community ministers, with whom I work in confidence. The continuity of the services provided by the Communities remains assured. On the Flemish side, the agreement with the current equipment supplier was already extended until February 2017 and discussions are ongoing to extend that agreement until the end of 2017. There is therefore no problem with the supply of new ankle straps. The sixth state reform does not prevent the Communities from sitting together to issue a new public contract. The choice of a common tender is based on the consideration that pooling of expertise creates a better position in the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you do not expect any problems and hope that this will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u37	Question No 10470 by Mr Terwingen is transformed into a written question. Question No 10474 by Mrs Uyttersprot has already been dealt with. Question No 10493 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed. Question No 10505 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question. Question No 10527 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed as is her question No 10529.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the press is relaying an attempt to escape in Leuze prison. An inmate, assisted by two accomplices, took advantage of a pre-trial exit to try to escape. The two accomplices, armed, had managed to cross the outer enclosure of the prison. One of the accomplices had managed to pass on a cutting clamp to the inmate so that the inmate could cut the fences of the yard and get into the round path. The plan worked until the fugitive and one of his accomplices were caught up by law enforcement. This history raises a complex problem related to the management of escape attempts and the underlying risks. Leuze Prison is a "high security" prison with dangerous inmates. Despite the ultra-modernity of this establishment, it must be noted that an escape has almost occurred. The regional secretary of the CGSP and former active agent in Leuze find, I quote, "inquiring, even worrying that an escape has almost succeeded". Opinion that I fully share. Moreover, we are faced with a real paradox as the higher the level of security in our prisons, the higher the risks associated with attempts to escape, as fugitives no longer hesitate to use heavy weapons to achieve their ends. There are many examples in Belgium and abroad: hostage-taking, heavy-armed detainees, helipading attempts, bursts of fire, and I'm passing. Minister, how is it possible that individuals can enter a very secure prison as easily as possible? Shouldn't it be better to categorize our prisons and put the necessary resources on the basis of the degree of dangerousness of the detainees in order to reduce the threat and not to dilute the money needed to strengthen security where necessary? Are the officers of these high-security prisons trained to deal with and prevent this threat? What means will you put in place to ensure the safety of officers in cases of attempted violent escape?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u39	Mrs Özen, as far as the attempt to escape from Leuze prison is concerned, it must be borne in mind that the security equipment has played its part perfectly: the alarm system has worked; the deterrent elements such as the closing of the interior and exterior parameters and the enclosure walls with bulbs have served their function as delayers. The first contacts did not reveal any malfunctions in the current procedures. Both the prison staff of the institution and the police carried out their work properly. Similarly, cooperation between the two sides has been good. This attempt to escape will now be the subject of a thorough analysis and follow-up by the competent authorities in order to assess what could be improved in terms of infrastructure and initial reflexes and the organization of the prison. Security in prisons is a priority. In this context, standardized security processes, including those for serious incidents, have been identified. Training with the police is organized, as well as exercises to simulate hostage-taking. With regard to prison officers, the country's two training centres offered them continuous training in the use of special techniques and in the application of prison reflexes. We screen inmates to best guide them according to their profile. Recall that it is very difficult to anticipate external attacks. On the other hand, the aim is to provide for equipment, devices and procedures aimed at preventing or delaying escapes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I'll come back to you about the in-depth analysis of this escape attempt. You tell me that precise continuing training is organised according to the danger. However, the higher the security of a prison, the more imaginative the means used by potential fugitives and other ill-intentioned persons. It was therefore important that prison staff should not be put at risk. That is why every effort must be made to prevent escape attempts from succeeding. That would, of course, be gravissim.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u41	Minister, the tragic events of this 22nd of March have, as you know, caused a considerable number of casualties. The record is probably not yet definitive, but the press mentioned, a few days ago, the terrible record of 32 dead people, 44 seriously injured and a large number of lightly injured. Unfortunately, it is not in our power to erase the dramatic consequences of these events for those directly concerned, as well as for their families. On the other hand, it is our duty to ensure that these persons are, to the extent possible, compensated and, to this end, accompanied by their administrative procedures. However, a few weeks after the attacks, despite the intervention and the work of the victim support services, organized within the courts, it seems that the victims and their families still do not see clearly, which in turn causes them an additional and understandable disarray. The Act of 1 April 2007 on insurance against damage caused by terrorism provides that most insurances must cover damage caused by terrorism. The same law establishes a system of solidarity embodied by a legal person, the ASBL TRIP - Terrorism Reinsurance and lnsurance Pool - formed by insurers and reinsurers in order to distribute among the participants their commitments in the event of terrorism. It is also provided that the right to subrogation of mutualities and insurers in respect of industrial accidents may be exercised only after full compensation has been paid by them to the injured person or his successors. This recent law, adopted following the Ghislenghien disaster, is now being tested by recent events. Minister, almost a month after the facts, what care can be provided to victims of the 22 March attacks and their beneficiaries? What measures have been taken by the government to effectively facilitate the administrative procedures of victims, given the exceptional scale of events? Does the scheme set up by the above-mentioned Act of 1 April 2007 seem sufficient or does it seem to you, on the contrary, to require further action? What about those who may not have legal protection insurance? What is being done to help these individuals and their families claim their rights to compensation? In terms of compensation, what can the victims of the criminal trial expect about those who have been arrested by the courts? Is an intervention by the Commission to provide financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence conceivable in the long run and, if so, does it appear to provide sufficient compensation to victims? Given the magnitude of the events and the large number of victims, I think that you would really do a useful job by informing all concerned of the procedures to be followed in order to be compensated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u42	Mrs Özen, I will answer partially in Dutch for reasons you know. In 2015, 23.9 million euros were generated. The Financial Aid Commission for Victims of Intentional Violence and Occasional Saviors awarded a sum of € 10.2 million in financial aid in the same year. In 2015, there were 1 281 petitions and 1 333 decisions, of which 995 were positive and 338 were negative. Soon a bill will be discussed in the Chamber which updates the law of 1 August 1985 setting up the Victims' Fund. I can already announce some of the points already included in my policy plan of 10 November 2015: raising the ceilings for financial emergency aid and emergency aid to victims, extending those who are entitled to help, adding the family-in-law and the wider interpretation of the sustainable family, recognising the legal compensation as damages because the victim is first required to conduct proceedings against the perpetrators of intentional acts of violence, facilitating the submission of applications by e-mail and making a model application available. At the Council of Ministers on 22 April 2016, I will submit a Royal Decree on the basis of Article 42bis of the Law of 1 August 1985 adapted by the Law of 1 April 2007 on insurance against damage caused by terrorism, adding a Section 4 entitled "State aid to victims of terrorism". These legal provisions make it possible to extend compensation to victims of terrorism and to adapt, taking into account the characteristics of terrorism, the obligations of persons eligible for assistance under the 1985 Act. The first objective of the royal decree in draft will be to simplify the conditions for submitting an application to the Commission for financial assistance to victims by exempting these victims from the conditions of admissibility, including the lodging of a complaint. As long as no one denies the terrorist character of the 22 March attacks, it is unnecessary to await the results of the judicial investigation or, a fortiori, the results of the criminal proceedings against the perpetrators or accomplices of these monstrous acts. Every effort is made to ensure that the terrorists who survived the attacks they committed are held accountable for their actions before the courts, but I have little illusion of their ability to compensate their victims. The insolvency condition of the perpetrator of the intentional act of violence, which is one of the key elements of the 1985 Act, can already be considered fulfilled. On the other hand, it will be necessary to examine the extent to which victims can benefit from the intervention of private insurance, in particular insurance at Brussels National Airport or STIB, legal insurance taken up by their employers in the event of an accident at work or on the way to work, possible travel insurance, etc. I have had contacts with the insurance companies who have confirmed to me that they are already preparing to intervene. In general, the intervention of insurance is more favourable for victims than that of the Special Fund for Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence, which intervenes in the name of solidarity between citizens but never guarantees full compensation. A single point of contact has been established within the Victims Support Fund to support victims of the 22 March terrorist attacks. In addition, the government will take the initiative to proactively search for and support victims and their loved ones, based on lists made available by hospitals. In addition, a working group is developing a national recognition status for victims of terrorist attacks. My department's budget for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence is currently sufficient to meet the demands of victims of the terrorist attacks of 22 March and to continue to process requests for assistance from other victims. I am this issue closely and if additional needs are to be felt, I am convinced that a supplementary budget could be released. I would add that Article 42bis of the 1985 Act also makes it possible to supplement the provision of the Fund to assist victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers, if necessary, by advances from the Treasury, by loans, by donations and bequests, by part of the profits of the National Lottery and by other income which the King determines. To address your concern about the information to be given to victims, the FPS Justice immediately took the necessary initiatives to draw their attention to the existence of the Assistance Fund. A link to it is highlighted on the homepage of the Justice FPS website. A four-language contact official was immediately appointed to the Commission Secretariat for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence in the person of Mr Olivier Lauwers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u43	Minister, thank you for your extremely detailed answer. I have no doubt that you are doing what is necessary to provide support and to facilitate the administrative procedures that families or victims of the attacks can undertake to receive compensation. You know that getting hurt, losing someone, grieving is already extremely difficult. In addition, to have to perform extremely heavy administrative tasks - a combatant's journey - is to add an additional difficulty to the pain of families. I have heard that you have created a contact point and that you are developing, with a working group, a recognition status for victims of terrorist violence. I will be attentive to future measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u44	Mr President, Minister, in 2014, together with my excellent colleagues Denis Ducrame and Philippe Goffin, I drafted a bill providing for criminal penalties for those who, intentionally and repeatedly – I insist on these terms to avoid any ambiguity – do not pay their rent. It is, in fact, a matter of defending the owners who are subjected to numerous malfeasances on the part of a minority of unscrupulous tenants. Today, we can read in the press the agitation of the National Union of Owners and Co-owners (SNPC), which wants tenants who do not pay their rent regularly and voluntarily to be punished. Minister, can you tell me the government's position on the bill tabled on October 8, 2014? Has the government taken any steps in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Clarinval, we understand that the bill to which you refer is intended to address the problem raised by the National Union of Owners and Co-owners regarding the arrears of rent of owners who fail to obtain payment. In this context, the SNPC also requests that these rent arrears be taken over from the Centrale des appropriations aux particuliers. However, the question is whether criminal law is the right way to address this problem adequately and to provide compensation to affected donors. Is the behaviour of a tenant who repeatedly fails to pay rent or pays only part of it worth bringing before the criminal judge? This is an issue that can, of course, be considered in the context of the reform of the Criminal Code. A proposal for Book 1 will soon be proposed to the Committee on Justice. Once a consensus has been reached on it, discussions on the criminal provisions for Book 2 can begin. However, the non-payment of rent raises certain questions, in any case as regards the intentional aspect. I am thinking here of bad faith or fraudulent intent. What about, for example, the tenant who, unexpectedly, no longer has a professional income because he has lost his job or suffers from a serious illness? Moreover, it is not always possible to find an immediate alternative to adequate housing. In this case, as a result of the proposed criminalization, the tenant will be forced to involuntarily commit an offence. I am therefore of the opinion that the current possibilities for legal proceedings must be examined as a whole. I'll list some of them. From the standpoint of civil law, specific procedures exist. The lessor already has different means of action against the lessee who does not pay his rents. 1. The lessor may initiate with the justice of the peace an expulsion procedure described in detail in chapter XV of the Judicial Code. 2. The lessor may, before expulsion, seize the furniture and effects present in the dwelling. He may also request a seizure of the tenant's income. 3. The lessor may request the judge to recover unpaid rents by seizure of the rental guarantee and/or request interim measures as a matter of urgency (art. 584 of the Judicial Code). 4. Thanks to the Lease Guarantee Fund, established by the Flemish Region, the lessor can receive the entire rental guarantee, even if the lessee is not currently in a position to pay. It's a way to protect yourself from bad payers. The owner deposits, per rented property, a small sum at the caisse. After three months of unpaid rent, he is required to apply to the justice of the peace within 20 days. The guarantee can run for up to 12 months of unpaid rents. From the point of view of criminal law, if the legal conditions are met, the conduct of the indelicate tenant may be subject to an offence such as fraud (article 496 of the Criminal Code).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u46	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I would point out that people who are in bad faith and have fraudulent intentions are targeted; they are not targeted at the unfortunate cases of people who lose their jobs. I hear that debates will take place in the Committee on Justice. I hope that this matter will receive the best attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u47	Question No 10728 by Mr Clarinval will be dealt with in the Finance Committee. Mr Massin, you have the floor for your question on the abolition of the justice of peace at Merbes-le-Château.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u48	Minister, as part of the Justice Plan which provides for the abolition of the double and triple cantons of justice of peace and the functional consolidation on a single site, it would have been decided to close the seat of the justice of peace of Merbes-le-Château for centralization in Beaumont in early 2016. Finally, centralization will no longer take place in Beaumont but in Chimay, with a continuation of the hearings "under the tree" in Beaumont. We therefore come to a justice which is less and less close and which is increasingly moving away from the citizen. Indeed, I will give you a small reminder of the kilometric calculation: Merbes-le-Château is distant from Chimay of 36 kilometers and a single way from Erquelinnes to Chimay by public transport, lasts no less than two hours thirty by coupling the train and the bus. When the hearing begins at 9:00 a.m., the departure is particularly early. Beyond the cost of these trips to the citizen, it seems to me to be an infringement of the citizens' right to access to justice. At the end of February, the mayor of Merbes-le-Château asked you to be able to keep the so-called "under the tree" hearings within his commune and to lay down the terms of the hearings. You told him that there was a possibility that hearings could be held for places where the seat would be closed and that you would consider the various modalities under request. Minister, what about today's possibility of keeping the hearings "under the tree" within Merbes-le-Château? I would like to make it clear to you, if you did not know, that before, hearings were held in the communal house. A new communal house has just been inaugurated. Have you recently contacted the mayor to see if periodic hearings can be held? Do you really think that one can talk about centralization by evoking Chimay, compared to the two other seats that were located in Beaumont and Merbes-le-Château, knowing that the distance between the cities is relatively large, and that the centre is not Chimay, but rather Beaumont? If you make the decision to keep centralization in Chimay, would you consider a possibility of facilitating public transit from Erquelinnes to Chimay, even if we do not have a direct rail link?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u49	As you know, the justices of peace plan has three phases. The first dealt with the centralization of the double and triple cantons and was made at the end of December 2015, when the government decided to centralize in Chimay. This decision was taken on the basis of different criteria. If you say, as you do, that there are serious problems with public transit, it is appropriate to provide me with more details. I will support the request, as far as possible, to the Minister of Mobility. For locations where a seat has been removed or will be removed, the option is to schedule hearings under the tree. I am currently preparing the content definition with the help of my administration, after which all justices of the peace will be informed, as well as all the communes concerned, so that these bodies can take their decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u50	Minister, your answer is rather frustrating because the problem is still there. Yet the official approach is there. There are possibilities as well as an opening with the mayor. I think we can easily answer him. Contact the administration: "Mr. Mayor, here are the details. What are the availabilities? How can all this be done?" It seems to me to be the simplest. The mayor came to see me because he has no answer. So far, you are replying that it will be defined with the administration, the justices of the peace, the communes. Everyone will be concerned. For Beaumont, there is indeed a direct road. But, at the moment, for the citizens of the entire Erquelinnes-Merbes-le-Château region, there is no answer. They have to go to Chimay. This is a shame, especially since it is a positive step in the head of the mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic391x.u51	The following questions are transformed into written questions:- point 10494 by Mrs Van Cauter, - No 10642 of Mrs Jadin, - No 10670 of Mr Metsu, - n° 10710 de Mme Capoen, - No 10871 of Mr Foret. Question No 10761 by Mr Kir is postponed.
