ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. I declare the session open 2016-2017. I declare the session 2016-2017 open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u3	The next item is the appointment of the permanent Bureau. The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. 1. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the Chamber; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members in No. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President; - the three Vice-Presidents; - members of the bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the House; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and Bureau members in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary for each political group with at least 12 members to have at least one member of the Bureau. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions according to the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u4	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? Mr. De Roover, are you deeply pondering?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u5	Mr President, we will no longer increase the tension: we propose Mr Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u6	As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Siegfried Bracke was elected President of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Siegfried Bracke was elected Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u7	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the Bureau members. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. In accordance with Rules 3, 1 and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we shall appoint 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green in the following order. In accordance with Articles 3, 1, and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must appoint in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. and 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u8	Mr President, on behalf of the PS Group, I propose the candidature of the excellent current Vice-President, André Frédéric, to continue his mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Françoise Schepmans is nominated by the MR Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u12	Mr President, I propose Mr Sonja Becq as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Verherstraeten. The PS Group proposes Mr André Frédéric as Vice-President; - the MR Group proposes Mrs Françoise Schepmans as Vice-President; - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Sonja Becq as Vice-President. The PS Group proposed Mr André Frédéric as Vice-President; - the MR Group proposed Ms Françoise Schepmans as Vice-President; - the CD&V Group proposed Ms Sonja Becq as Vice-President. I declare Mr Frédéric, Mrs Schepmans and Mrs Becq elected Vice-Presidents. I declare Mr. Frédéric, Mrs. Schepmans and Mrs. Becq elected as Vice-Presidents of the House. For the members of the Bureau, is anyone asking to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u14	Mr President, we are introducing Mr Inez De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u15	Thank you, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u16	Mr President, we would like to introduce Mr Dirk Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u18	Mr President, we would like to introduce Mrs Karin Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u19	Thank you, Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u20	Mr President, our group would like to propose Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as an added value for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u21	Thank you. The N-VA Group proposes Ms Inez De Coninck as Bureau member; - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Dirk Van Mechelen as Bureau member; - the sp.a Group proposes Ms Karin Temmerman as Bureau member; - the Ecolo-Green Group proposes Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as Bureau member. The N-VA Group proposed Ms Inez De Coninck as a member of the Bureau; - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Dirk Van Mechelen as a member of the Bureau; - the sp.a group proposed Ms Karin Temmerman as a member of the Bureau; - the Ecolo-Groen Group proposes Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as a member of the Bureau. I declare Mrs Inez De Coninck, Mr Van Mechelen, Mrs Temmerman and Mr Van Hecke elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. I proclaim Mrs. Inez De Coninck, Mr. Van Mechelen, Mrs Temmerman and Mr. Van Hecke elected as members of the Bureau of the House. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: - Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; - Ms Laurette Onkelinx, Chairman of the PS Group; - Mr Denis Ducarme, Chairman of the MR Group; - Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; - Mr Patrick Dewael, President of the Open Group; - Ms Meryame Kitir, Chairman of the sp.a Group; - Mr Kristof Calvo, Chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; - Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a bureau member. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: - Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; - Ms Laurette Onkelinx, President of the PS Group; - Mr Denis Ducrame, Chairman of the MR Group; - Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; - Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Vld Group; - Ms Meryame Kitir, chairman of the sp.a. group; - Mr Kristof Calvo, Chairman of the Ecolo-Groen Group; - Catherine Fonck, president of the cdH group; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House for the appointment of an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u22	Mr President, I propose Mr Francis Delperée.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u23	I declare Mr Francis Delpérée elected as an additional member of the Bureau. I declare Mr. Francis Delperee an associate member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u24	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u25	Today, we received a letter from the Prime Minister saying, "In view of the need to continue discussions on the budget and structural reforms, the government is asking for a postponement of the government statement normally scheduled for this afternoon. The Government undertakes to present to the Chamber the outcome of these discussions as soon as they are concluded." Today we received a letter from the Prime Minister informing us that "The government is calling for the postponement of the government statement originally scheduled this afternoon because of the need to continue discussions on the budget and structural reforms for the future. The government is committed to coming to the House and presenting the results as soon as the discussions are over."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u26	Mrs Meryame Kitir, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain have requested, under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, that the Prime Minister be present. Mrs Meryame Kitir, Messrs. Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet, Laurette Onkelinx and Catherine Fonck and Olivier Maingain have requested, pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the Prime Minister. There are therefore two elements on the agenda. First, the change of agenda and second, the application of rule 50. I propose that you have a debate on these two elements, that is, Rule 50 and the change of agenda. The Rules of Procedure provide that speaking time shall be 10 minutes per political group in order to amend the agenda. I suggest we apply this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u27	Mr President, I note that no member of the government is present in this chamber. However, in my opinion, the least polite thing would have been for a member of the government to come and explain the situation and let us know why the government sent you a letter. Before I even have a debate on the substance and out of respect for Parliament, I therefore ask for the presence of a member of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u28	Mr President, we have two important points to discuss: the change in the agenda and Article 50, the requisition of the Prime Minister. It was already in the air that the Prime Minister would not be there, but we will have that debate later. For me, however, it is a complete surprise to be faced with a collective strike by the entire government. My fellow Members are right to whisper to me that this government is in favour of minimum services. It therefore seems to me that this should at least be applied in this House, especially since a number of people are concerned about Kris Peeters who had disappeared and had not returned to the core. Kris Peeters is in the House, Kris Peeters is alive, Kris Peeters is available. I've seen other government members, too. It would therefore be a minimum of courtesy and involvement, should anyone from the government be present. If not, I think we should suspend for a while. Mr President, you have just been appointed by the Chamber, majority and opposition. I would like you to play your part, not only for the majority, but also for the opposition and thus for the entire House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u29	Mr President, indeed, this observation of a completely empty government bench is a matter of concern. It's never before seen! When before, there was a postponement, the government was there and assumed it. If the government is not here today, my colleague would say, "Maybe it's because he's on strike," but maybe there's another hypothesis. Perhaps it is simply that this government is no longer supported by its majority. That is why today he does not dare to appear here in the House. Your responsibility, Mr. President, is to be president of the whole assembly. You are the one who must uphold the Constitution. This morning, the Budget Minister spoke extensively about the reasons why the government had not yet achieved its goal. She still said there was 95 percent agreement. So if the government is able to explain itself in the morning on live radio, the government must also have the minimum of respect for the parliamentary assembly. It is here that the government must come to shoulder its responsibilities, the consequences of its non-decisions before parliamentarians and thus before all citizens. And it is up to you, Mr. President, to enforce this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u30	Mr President, I would like to join with the previous speakers and certainly strengthen their vocation. It is a matter of basic courtesy that at least someone from the government is present. That was never seen at an opening session in this House. I don't care who it is, even if it's Secretary of State De Crem. At least he didn't come back from Havard for nothing. I think you should make sure that at least someone from the government is present today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u31	Mr. President, you have just been re-elected. I'm not saying I would have voted for you: let's be honest. But now that you are elected, use your prerogatives somewhat to defend the rights of this Parliament. For months, everyone knows that the government must be present today, carrying a general declaration. This is not an arrangement last week. It's an annual tradition. We haven't been here for a long time, but I've been told, "Raoul, you have to block the second Tuesday of October to come here." Now the debate is postponed, without a word of explanation. Mr President, you must defend this right to democracy. An executive that despises the people like that is unacceptable. I agree with all my colleagues: we ask you to ask a member of the government to at least provide an explanation for the fact that the debate on the general statement will not take place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u32	Mr President, regardless of why the government is not in a position to make its declaration on the state of union at the time of the return to parliament, and although these reasons are known, tradition still requires that when the parliamentary assembly re-establishes its bodies and resumes its work, the government be represented. And this regardless of whether or not he makes a statement. It is therefore not acceptable, in our parliamentary tradition, for the government to be absent at the time this House marks its return to Parliament. It's totally new. I believe that a President who wants to uphold the prerogatives of parliamentary democracy, that is, the control of the government by Parliament, must demand the presence of a representative of the government. If the Prime Minister has succeeded in convincing Mr. From Crem to abandon Harvard to be with the King, he may well find a member of the government to come to this chamber at this hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u33	Mr President, I too support the question of the presence of a member of the government. It is the government that is asking for a postponement and not the opposition. It would be quite a punishment if we asked that question. If the Prime Minister cannot come, Mr President, at least one member of the government may be present. We had a discussion last week about another member of the government. I believe that there are enough members of the government so that at least this government can send someone. All this, Mr President, shows little respect for Parliament. I would ask that at least one member of the government be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, two points have been raised. Firstly, there is the question of changing the agenda and, secondly, the presence of a member of the government is also requested. The latter of course depends on the outcome of the vote on the application of Rule... [[Objections to the banks of the opposition]] It is the Chamber that will decide whether or not to request the presence of the government. We will have a debate on this, as the Rules of Procedure state, and we will also have an agenda change linked to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u35	Mr President, there are two different things. First, a request was made for the Prime Minister to appear before Parliament in order to have a debate. On the other hand, we are asking for a member of the government to be present here and now to hear the debate. My colleague spoke earlier to say that Mr Peeters is currently in the buildings. Mr Borsus was, for his part, in the Conference of Presidents a few minutes ago. We ask you, Mr. Chairman, to suspend the meeting until a member of the government joins us. This is a matter of respect for Parliament. The question is addressed to you, Mr. President. It's your responsibility. You have just been appointed president of the assembly for a new session. It's up to you. You have the future of the functioning of this Parliament in your hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u36	Colleagues, a suspension has been requested. We will answer the question of suspension: I propose to suspend until 15:30. We'll take it back at 3:30. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u37	The meeting was resumed. The sitting will be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking the session again. Meanwhile, the government is represented in the hemisphere. I propose that, as agreed, we continue the discussion on, firstly, the application of Article 50, which calls for the presence of the Prime Minister, and secondly, the amendment of our agenda. I propose that we use ten minutes of speaking time per group for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we were to hear from the Prime Minister about the 2017 fiscal year and the major structural reforms that his government was to develop in the coming weeks and months. This is the very first time that the government has not been present during the parliamentary re-entry due to a crisis resulting from the failure to reach agreement on the budget and reforms during the night before the parliamentary re-entry. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not nothing. This is a problem not only in the procedure but also in the substance. According to rumours, the government has already agreed on extremely important measures, particularly in the area of health care. It would be worth 900 million euros. In other words, the crisis will be partially resolved on the back of the sick. Indeed, when it comes to charging the 10 per cent of the richest population in our society, there is no more agreement, a lack of agreement that led to the crisis that we are experiencing today. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, it would have been desirable for the Prime Minister to be present. I now come to the procedure. What a lightness! The Prime Minister and his government were well aware, however, that this year, the second Tuesday in October, fell on the second Tuesday in October. We knew it. So we had to prepare for it. In addition, the Prime Minister and his government had long known the existence of difficulties. However, in July, when tax revenues did not meet the government's wishes – I would remind you that at that time, rather than having a trajectory that would lead to more than four billion euros, we were faced with a deficit of more than 500 million euros – we say that we still have time, that everything is fine, but that we need to show a little modesty, humility, and not to overwhelm. And what's going on? Nothing. Rather than taking the troubles at arm's length, this government and its Prime Minister Charles Michel go from one side to the other, abroad, here and there. This government is not working to find solutions. This situation reveals a slight guiltyness, irresponsibility. Finally, I point to the attitude of this government. He was in crisis last night; it happens. It happened to others. Normally, he has to come here to explain himself. And who do we hear in the early morning on the radio? The Budget Minister, who apparently did not attend much of the fiscal year - which is already quite surprising - but who, on the other hand, explains the situation on the radio. "It's not easy, but we agree 95%. There are structural reforms, but it may not be that simple. This is how it should be done." All right. Since the Budget Minister was able to explain the government's difficulties on the air, I do not understand why the Prime Minister cannot come to Parliament to explain the situation. [[Applause]] I see this as disrespect and contempt for parliamentary democracy, and I ask, under Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, that the Prime Minister be required to come and explain the political situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mrs Onkelinx. I'm just trying to get back to the past. I remember for years that the government with its State of the Union did not appear before the Chamber on the second Tuesday of October. Is it preferable that this should happen? Yes. I would also have preferred that we should first listen to the Prime Minister and then have the debate today, as scheduled for us on our agenda. In 2012, for example, there were municipal elections and we did so at a later date. I remember that in 2013 the then Prime Minister, on behalf of his government, also asked for a postponement and got it from the Chamber without any problems, because there were still problems with the Competitiveness Pact. There is, however, one point that has been remediated in the meantime: we must, of course, elect the Bureau again automatically on the second Tuesday of October. This has happened today in the absence of the government, but in the meantime a member of the government has joined us. So can we talk about a real political crisis, because the government says in a letter to Parliament that it needs some time to reach a global agreement? In the meantime, you also know that budgetary work has progressed well and that it is about what is called accompanying labour market policy and fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u42	No, those aren't details, Mr Vanvelthoven. You've been on the Finance Committee long enough. That is a bit separate from the actual budget table. The budget table is one thing, taxation is a second element, the labour market is a third element. It goes without saying that the government and the Prime Minister prefer to come up with a global approach. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a deadline. Recently, we have been living in the European reality, which says that by 15 October the government must deliver a paper to the European Commission. That is why, of course, we have not changed our work. On the second Tuesday in October, we are meeting to reconvene the Bureau. At that point in time, having the State of the Union and the debate will be all the better. If that doesn't work, it's not a man overboard if that's a few days later. Here's what I want to say. Of course, the whole fiscal debate is not a detail. We live in the hardest burdened country in the world, and we are champions in that area. We are, in general terms, the most heavily taxed country in terms of personal taxation, so that sometimes it is still more interesting for many people not to work than to work. [[Objection on the banks of the sp.a.]] In the field of capital taxes, we are the fourth in the ranking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u43	That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u44	We have, Mrs. Temmerman... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u45	Try to listen! We do not know capital taxes in our country, but of course we know the withholding tax, the withholding tax, the inheritance tax, the gift rights. So there are enough power loads. All we are doing is proposing an additional capital tax, when the government is actually wondering whether the withholding tax... [[Strong protests on the opposition banks]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u46	Let Mr Dewael speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u47	I am not saying that this is a decision, which we will hear when everything is finished from 27 % to 30%. Five years ago, that was 15%. At present, this government is considering bringing this withholding tax from 27% to 30%. So that's actually a doubling. What I would prefer instead of having a one-sided discussion about this or that tax is that we should ask ourselves how we could create confidence in the stock exchange in our country. I crave to be able to invest the EUR 260 billion in savings, which is not worth anything today, either to savers or to the economy, in the direction of the economy. There was once someone, Mr Cooreman, who, together with Mr De Clercq, had an important law voted in this respect. I think this is a useful exercise to make, rather than saying: this or that tax. I am simply reminding you that one can levy taxes as much as one wants. I think that the speculative tax is a good example of a symbol tax that ultimately cost more to the country than the money paid. So I am not participating in symbolism. I am trying to ensure that we can manage to reform in the last straight line. Mrs. Temmerman, can I tell you something? It was no different in the old days. The night before the landing of prime ministers, I have always had discussions, which is inherent in politics. Fortunately, there is still a debate on politics. Let me make it quite clear that this coalition is made up of four partners and therefore four partners will have to be taken into account. There is the reform of corporate taxation and, of course, there is the aspect of capital taxation. A country that can continue to afford the luxury of spending 260 billion euros of savings must urgently devise measures to invest, pump, inject these savings into the economy. That is far too little happening today. Within these lines, the debate in the government is open, and I have now given my opinion on this. I would like to make a pragmatic proposal. We would do well, given that the Chamber has been constituted by law, to meet on Thursday anyway. That is only normal, that is the custom, then we always have Question Time. The government will let us know when it is done with its exercise, knowing that by 15 October the government will have to go to Europe. Within these lines, my group is following events very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u48	Mr President, I will not be the only one who regrets that we cannot have a debate today. The events are what they are. Fortunately, we have complied with our constitutional obligation here today and we have done what has to be done on the second Tuesday in October. The State of the Union is a good use that we will indeed have to interrupt this year. It goes without saying that we will be able to have a real debate on content one of the following days. There is no content today, because there is no agreement yet. The government doesn't have anything to do with this, so there's nothing to debate. That will be the case very soon. We will not interfere in the debate here and now as there is no debate. We shall do so in due course. We are giving the opposition the opportunity to play out some procedural issues here. We are giving the opposition the pleasure of exhausting a number of possibilities in the Rules of Procedure. However, there is no subject of discussion today. The government, by letter from Prime Minister Michel, has announced that it will make this statement one of the following days. As far as we are concerned, this can be done tomorrow. We will not prevent a good agreement at any time. I can assure you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that my group will take an extensive position on what has come out of the bus. We are not going to do that today for the reasons I have just explained. I shall therefore not extend this sitting further with any reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, normally I would also address myself to the Prime Minister, but he is not here. The opening of the parliamentary year is traditionally a very important moment. It is the moment when the government addresses Parliament and the people to explain its budget and give its vision for the future. That didn't work. The government is deeply divided. The government has been divided for two years and today they are in a deep crisis. Mr Dewael, you have proved this once again with your speech. The speculative tax, which your own government has approved, is today piercing the ground, only proves that this majority is very divided. It also failed because fair taxation is apparently still a major taboo on the government table. People's invoices were raised in a fingernip, but when a party finally put a foot in the door in an attempt to achieve fair taxation, that was enough to provoke a government crisis. And that while the people and the companies are looking for security after all those announced layoffs. And that while people have been asking for fair measures for more than two years. Many people, civil society and many organisations, no longer accept that this government demands an effort from those same people, just because it always chooses to spare the great powers. The demand for honesty, ladies and gentlemen, will not diminish. In itself, I have no problem with today's speech being postponed, if that leads to an important step towards fair taxation. Me and my party will be the first to applaud that. If the postponement of the speech is merely intended to highlight further the divisions within this government, then we are not yet a step further. What I absolutely cannot accept is that the Prime Minister does not bother to come to Parliament today and explain this crisis. The journalists have more rights than we, Members of Parliament: they are free to ask questions to the Prime Minister and the members of the government. Today we have had difficulty getting a member of the government here. Mr De Roover, you must not give us, the opposition, anything. You're in the government because you said you'd do much better. Today we are standing here in the Chamber without the Prime Minister's policy statement, because this government is a mess. You do not have to give us anything as an opposition, give people a fair policy and fair measures, that is what they are asking for. Finally, I would like to say something to CD&V. If your proposal is a real fair tax proposal, you will have our support. If it does not mean real change, then know, ladies and gentlemen, that your credibility is at stake. I sincerely hope that you will finally get your backs right and push for fair taxation. I stand by my question to the Prime Minister to explain, in the hope that he will accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u50	Mr De Roover, I have brought a quote: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the government is almost fully present. Can we suspend the session for five minutes until the Prime Minister is present? Do you have any idea who this quote belongs to, Mr. De Roover? Jan Jambon on Tuesday 9 October 2012. Jan Jambon said this in this House on the second Tuesday of 2012. At that time there were even many government members present, yet Jan Jambon said: the State of the Union is being postponed, so the prime minister must be here. That was 2012. I'm very curious about your attitude later. Colleagues, I agree with colleagues who say that it should not be a tragedy if the State of the Union moves for a week. After all, the content of this exercise is much more important for our Parliament and certainly for our fellow countrymen than the timing of that exercise. There's no question about that. Nevertheless, I believe that the postponement of this State of the Union, the majority of my fellow Members, is an incredible missed opportunity because this country, its citizens and its businesses are longing for hope and perspective, because the spectacle of the last few hours is incredible anti-advertising for our stylishness. If a government is to be dragged to Parliament, if that government is to strike, people do not understand. That's old politics people fit for. The least you could have done is take your responsibilities and come and explain. That was the absolute minimum. I shall, however, enter into the substantive debate, Mr De Roover. You say there is no substantive debate. But that is the most important thing. The most important debate is not whether Borsus, Michel, Peeters or Jambon is here, or whether they are all here, the most important thing is the substantive debate. What taxes do we want? Will they become fairer, simpler and greener? Yes or no? Then my first appeal is to you, Mr Dewael. After your self-criticism, after 17 years of liberalism in a government, you have come here to say that the burden on labour is scandalously high. Rightly self-criticism of the liberals. It is therefore necessary to shift it, to reform it. What do I find with your party and with Mr De Roover's party? The only capital tax that has been on the table in recent weeks has been a wealth tax for jobseekers. Because you don't want a power caster, except for people who are having a hard time: the means test. That was on the table, though. Mr De Roover wants to investigate whether ING and Caterpillar's employees happen to have a home. Shouldn't they sell that before they get benefits? That's your model of society. My second appeal is to the colleagues of CD&V. You refused. Congratulations, I hope there has been no debate on that refusal, Mr Beke. Mr Beke, I would like to return to the following matter with you. Mr Verherstraeten, I do not know whether you will take the floor, but I would certainly do so after Mr Dewael's outstretched hand. After all, it must be clear what CD&V will do now. It recommends that you be the party and group that pays the most attention to fair taxation in this majority. Thank you for that. However, this attention must now be translated into action, into legislative proposals and into draft laws. We must take that step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u51	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u52	Mr Dewael, has it not been possible for the opposition to treat a majority party with more respect than you did before? Didn't it get far? Who's playing the pyromaniac here? You're playing the pyromaniac. You said just now to the compatriots that this fair contribution will not come with liberals in the government, that you would rather have high labour costs than a fair contribution from the greatest abilities. My call to CD&V is next.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u53	Mr Calvo, there are limits to pleasure. Firstly, the income tax has always risen in our country, but the tax shift of this government has for the first time brought you down a modest nod. We are, however, a country that is still skimming more than half of what citizens and businesses produce. That's where we're leading. Secondly, Mr Calvo, we have the principle of progressive taxation, which means that the strongest shoulders in our country bear the heavy burden. Why don't you put that in your head? For the third time, I would like to remind you once again that we have seen a number of developments with liberals in the government in the field of capital taxes. With the Socialists we have increased the withholding tax from 15% to 25% and 27%. Without the socialists in the government, we might increase them to 30%. Don't tell me we're not doing anything about capital taxes. I am just saying that we solve the problems in our country by constantly doing the same thing and simply talking about the revenue side and taxation, which discourages citizens and businesses. Or should we do it another way? Will we try to mobilise dormant savings to pump into the economy and achieve a real investment pact? That's the outstretched hand. Otherwise, you're playing your part, but you're not gonna play me against anyone. As far as taxation is concerned, it is a collective shame that we still encourage people in our country to work rather than work. That is a collective disgrace!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u54	Mr President, Mr Dewael's speech merely shows that it is a pity that the Prime Minister cannot attend this debate, because then he could see that we differ. You say that you would rather look for hundreds of millions of euros in healthcare than ask for a fair contribution from the 10% of the most wealthy. The Prime Minister should listen to this social and political debate. He needs to know that there are people in this society, in this Parliament, who are milder to the greatest capabilities with thousands of euros of added value than people with thousands of euros of hospital bills. That is the difference and that debate should be attended by the Prime Minister. My second point on taxation is the following, Mr Dewael. After all, I do not just want to talk about the added value tax, which I really hope will be a concrete proposal that works and is substantial. I would also like to talk about corporation tax. We should have a State of the Union here today in which the Prime Minister says that SMEs will finally get reduced, simpler and fairer corporate tax. This debate too, Mr Beke, threatens with these old politicians, with this old political class, which apparently wants to negotiate mainly at night, something which has now been proven not to work and, above all, provides panic solutions, should take place here today. We therefore call on Mr Dewael, Mr De Roover, Mr Verherstraeten, and you too, Mr Beke, to jump together and simply implement both measures. On the one hand, there must be a fair contribution from the largest assets and, on the other hand, it must be reformed. A real reform government would take both measures together because both are good for our society, our citizens and our businesses. Finally, procedurally speaking, and then I shall conclude, Mr Dewael, I think that our Prime Minister should come here today to say something. That our Prime Minister should be here today. That is why we are asking for at least one additional seat to be filled and for the Prime Minister to be reclaimed. That is not too much to ask, Mr Dewael, for the presence of two members of the government. So the Prime Minister can come and tell us what his plan is for this country. How he will provide hope and perspective. The importance of this is only confirmed by your intervention, Mr Dewael. Maybe the Prime Minister is following the hearing. If the Prime Minister is following the hearing... you're laughing at it, but that's a tragedy. The Prime Minister must see the opening of sitting time on television and not in the Chamber itself. That's not funny, Mr Dewael. If Mr Michel is watching at home in the Lambermont, he will find that he no longer has a majority at the moment. What Mr Dewael is saying is not consistent with what Mr Beke said out there. Finally, in addition to Mr Michel, I would like to invite you, Mr Verherstraeten, to come to the gallery and say that this fair contribution of the greatest capabilities will be made. So that we, this Parliament and our compatriots, know that this time it is serious for the CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u55	Mr Calvo, I understand that you are very hungry for some debate, but let us have the debate on the basis of facts, decisions and measures. Not on the basis of intentional processes that you have spent the last ten minutes here in the gallery. We will have the debate with you on the measures that have been taken or the measures that have not been taken that you mentioned earlier. At that time, Mr Verherstraeten will answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u56	Mr Beke, you have never had as much support in this Parliament of the opposition as you have today. Over the last 48 hours, all these groups, together with a majority in society, have said to you: if you and this government can take a step towards a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities, we will encourage you to do so. That was our attitude. That has nothing to do with electoral considerations, because that would burn us down. Then we would say, "We do not believe you." We have encouraged you to do so for the last 48 hours. But if Mr Dewael, without scruples, comes to read out the dogmatic liberal fiscal programme, then a Christian Democrat President can only do one thing. That is to stand up and say to Mr Dewael in the gallery: this is not done with my party, it is not done with this country, it is not done with the important agenda of fiscal justice. Mr Beke, that is why there is a doubt as to whether this contribution will be forthcoming. I can only encourage you to recapture yourself, to right your back, and to stand firm this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u57	I would like to reply, but all I have heard from Mr Dewael, in addition to a general discourse, is that the withholding tax will increase from 27% to 30%. When we talk about ways in which capital can be taxed, this does not seem to me to be a liberal agenda. It is an example to point out that, at the time of the debate here, we will explain what measures we will take to implement the 2017 budget... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u58	Mrs Temmerman, the turns that the Socialists have ever taken when it comes to structural reforms, the Zolder circuit can do something about that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u59	Mr. Beke, that would have been led by a CD&V Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the poor minister who represents the government, somewhere, I complain to you. However, ladies and gentlemen, it had been well known that you were all going here to try to trivialize the case: "This is not the first time. It's okay. It's all right." We can see it! We have the Open Vld that taps on the CD&V and the CD&V stands back, or in any case, doesn't say anything. There was no doubt that you were going to trivialize, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is never before seen! Indeed, while a party slammed the door last night, there was no cat here on the government bench. It's also amazing because it's been months since you should have taken on your €4.2 billion hole. But no, you've been wandering all summer, and then, at the last minute, you tried to do the impossible exercise. Moreover, you can also receive the palm of surrealism – and that's what I said this morning – by listening to the waves of BEL RTL. Hear a Budget Minister speak and come to the government's statement on the radio rather than make the government's statement here in the House, that's never before seen! Minister Borsus, the Prime Minister's place was here in the House this afternoon rather than making his government statement on the radio this morning via his Budget Minister. Yesterday, it was the complete cacophony. The lack of cohesion in this government does not date from today. That's right! But yesterday was the pompom! In fact, as early as the morning, Minister Reynders announced that the budget was closed for him. Either that was the case and the budget was actually closed. Minister Reynders then royally allowed himself to burn the politeness of the announcement to the Prime Minister. Either that was not the case and the budget was not closed. Clearly, it was only a way for the MR to tap and hurt the CD&V in particular, and even other parties of the majority. All means are good. All shots are allowed. All shots are allowed! The MR would not have done otherwise if he wanted to overturn the negotiations. But the Budget Minister, this morning, was not figuring. No, she explained the agreement on them, she said, "95 % of the budget". It stated, inter alia, that an agreement had been reached and that a further 1 billion savings would be made in the area of health. This is not a trial of intent – I am replying to the CD&V – but a statement made by the Budget Minister in person who stated that there was an agreement. It should be recalled that the Minister of Health, Ms De Block, said and reiterated that it was not possible to achieve additional savings in health since two billion savings had already been achieved over the last two years and that, if further savings were to be made, it would be by touching patients. But I hear Mr. De Wever demanded that new savings be made in this sector, as is also the case with MR, moreover. Dear colleagues in the MR, let me quote Minister Reynders, who spoke a few weeks ago. I hope the patients listen to us. I quote: "When I go to the bookseller, I pay the newspaper, but when I go to the pharmacist, I no longer pay for a whole series of medications." That is what your leader, Deputy Prime Minister of this government, said! Everyone knows that the sick are for pleasure! Everyone knows we're taking medication to spend the time! Everyone knows that doctors who prescribe drugs do it for nothing! But that's what Minister Reynders said. Worse still, he asserted it and was very happy to explain it! Are you only aware of the actual situation of patients, some of whom have to tighten their belts, or even postpone care because they cannot pay for it? Are you aware that patients are still waiting and waiting for reimbursement of certain medicines or new medical techniques, which are still being reimbursed in neighbouring countries? It seems that no since you continue to take extra brutal measures while Minister De Block said that two billion euro of savings had already been made in this sector and that we could not go further at the risk of sacrificing patients. I will not address the issue of taxation. We'll have time to get back. We just had a gun pass. Let me, however, make a comment. Indeed, I hear Mr Dewael talking about the cost of work. I hear that Belgium is a leading tax country. But who has been Minister of Finance for years and years? You forgot him, Mr. Dewael, but remember! Ladies and gentlemen, if this budget is to be carried forward so that we can permanently postpone very harsh measures for the sick and the families, then that is so much better, but I have doubts. If deferring this budget makes it possible to take much more balanced tax measures, and strong measures to reduce working time, not only to create jobs, but also to protect them, then that is so much better. But again, I have doubts. I will end with a call to the CD&V. Again, go and tell yourself! But it's to give you extra vitamins! Dear colleagues on the CD&V, I call on you to resist loud and clear so that the brutal measures that the government wants to impose are reviewed. I urge you to resist, so that much more balanced tax measures are taken. Impose your convictions and values! Don't let go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u61	Mr President, I already knew that Belgium is not a state. We also know that there is no union. The fact that there is no traditional State of the Union on the second Tuesday of October should at least give some explanation and justification to the Prime Minister in this House. I'm not surprised it won't work for a while. In a Belgian framework, with a Community standstill, structural reforms are trying: I am not surprised that this is not possible. However, I am disappointed by the complete lack of respect of the government parties for this Parliament. Mr Dewael tried to condone it by saying that it still happened. There are no municipal elections as in 2012. The comparison with 2013 is also not valid. Di Rupo indeed requested a week's postponement for his State of the Union in 2013 due to the budgetary difficulties. My fellow Members from N-VA, at that time, that was proof for you that that government has no coherence whatsoever and that the budget work is a mess. It's been noted. However, you are doing far worse than the previous government. When Di Rupo asked for a stay for his State of the Union in 2013, he asked for it in advance for weeks. Mr President, when did you receive the Prime Minister's letter? Today? Yesterday? Today! Let the day itself know that it is not coming, that has never been seen. Di Rupo asked for it in advance for weeks. Debates preceded that. Mr Van de Velde, I would just like to point out that you are doing even worse than that government with which you are so anxious to make a difference. Debates in the Conference of Presidents preceded the postponement of those debates. Di Rupo then also announced the deadline, namely a delay of exactly one week, not a day more and not a day less. We knew where and where. He even announced on the original day, unfortunately only in the press and not in the hemisphere, what measures had already been taken. Colleagues, this government does not even have that respect. The strength of change is that this government places Parliament before facts on the day itself. The strength of change is that this government does not even dare to pin itself on a date for the policy statement. Is there going to be a policy statement at all? When will we get this policy statement? I would have liked to have heard from the Prime Minister today. Mr President, you must play your role as President of the Chamber. You shouldn't just take this. You must urge the government parties to respect this Parliament. I'm going to finish briefly. Mr van de Velde, I assume you are waiting for the end of my speech because it is very painful what is happening here. It would have been much better if we had been given some explanation today. That would have been a gesture of elementary courtesy and respect for Parliament. Mr President, you should not ask to change the agenda. All you have to do is to advance the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u62	Mr President, Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, I would like to start by saying how much I found Mr Dewael to be in very great shape. I do not know if you have shared this same satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, but in short - I think we have done well to bring you here, Mr Borsus - we have heard, in a certain way, in an energetic style, a state of union! Mr. Dewael made a statement of union with a touching sincerity. It has changed us from a bit of ritual to which we are usually entitled "we are determined, we work, we will come before you with...". Now I have to say... "the fault of the Brexit." Obviously, those who are determined, who are working, have a small problem in delivering their copies on time, but at least Mr. Dewael has said things with sincerity, credibly. He told us the state of weakness of our economy. The growth rate in Belgium is lower than the European average; despite the slogan 'jobs, jobs, jobs', the rate of job creation in Belgium is lower than the European average – it is enough to see the Eurostat figures that have just been published, we are well below the European average; we rank among the four countries with the lowest job growth in the countries of the European Union. That is the performance of this government. So Mr Dewael rightly said, "How will we finally mobilize energy?" But we were waiting for that government response. Obviously, what happened? It's true that we had the pleasure of hearing Didier Reynders yesterday morning. We know that he still has some kind of natural tendency to want to butter the spreads on the CD&V. It is an old natural inclination that probably dates back to 2007; it has kept some memories of its good relationship with CD&V. I've known a little bit about the period, so I could talk about it. It is true that Didier Reynders believed yesterday morning that he could put the CD&V in cage by a statement in front of the cameras. And now the CD&V has started, in a mood we know it, which is part of this somewhat outdated charm of the old CVP that goes up to the surface, which makes it a pleasure to see that all of a sudden the CD&V feels the need to exist. I can't encourage you too much. If not, you may know what I call the butterfly effect. In short, the CD&V discovered that an interesting momentum to wake up was taking place, due to the debates and weaknesses internal to the N-VA, due to some misguided leadership of this party. We will soon know whether it was the CD&V that went to the butterfly hunt or whether this government is finally able to make real reforms of a real magnitude. Do not come to boast of a tax reform in favour of the incomes of employees and the weakest. First of all, the tax reform does not benefit a whole category of income: pensioners, as well as persons receiving replacement income, have been forgotten. Indeed, you are very far from achieving what you promised during the election period, and I am speaking to the Liberal benches. Moreover, even this modest tax reform is far from providing the necessary impetus for purchasing power. This government has still not understood what other governments in Europe have understood, including sensitive governments rather from the right or the right: that it is by reviving economic growth through the growth of purchasing power and public investment that we can recreate the revenues necessary for fiscal balance. As long as you only have a vision of the competitiveness of businesses – which is certainly necessary – but without wanting to use other levers, such as the purchasing power of workers, and especially the incomes of the weakest and middle classes, until you succeed, there will be no real economic reform in this country. What we will be experiencing in the coming months and years is a state of increasingly lizard majority. We know the state of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u63	Mr. Borsus, are you okay? It's really not nice of the Prime Minister to send you here! You have to complain. He was supposed to be here. Ladies and gentlemen, normally this second Tuesday of the month, we had to discuss the State of the Union, as we are saying today. But, obviously, it's the State of the Desunion. I think you have relatively few excuses for not presenting a budget here today. Indeed, we are new Members. We were told that, really, on the second Tuesday of October, we had to be there and well undermined, because the Prime Minister normally comes to make his speech. You've known that for about a year. It's true, isn't it? That is even stated in the Rules of Procedure. In addition, we warned you last year that with the measures you were taking on your budget, it would be an incredible puzzle next year. Why? Because all the measures you've taken will really suffocate our economy and all your budget projections are worthless. We also warned you: "The guys really, it's going to be difficult. You will see, during the holiday months, you will have to make a hole again." This is indeed the paradox of the liberals: "Yes, we are the liberals. That's cool. We've got class. We are going to settle everything with regard to the budget. There won't be any more holes. Debt is not going to swell." But it's just the opposite, Mr. Borsus! With all the measures you take, the hole only increases. It's getting worse and worse, and every year you decide to make the workers, the sick, everyone pay again. All these people are going to consume less and less. As a result of the races, let's make an appointment for next year because it will be the puzzle again! It will not be EUR 4.2 billion but certainly EUR 5 or 6 billion. You were warned that it would be difficult. You are now unable to come forward with a budget. What we have heard is that there was an agreement between the majority parties on many points. Everyone agrees, for example, that a billion euros will be obtained from the sick. Apparently, there's an agreement on paying less medication. There is an agreement to go back to bullying the unemployed. There's an agreement on flexibility, working 45 hours a week again. There are all agreements on that. But there is a big debate among the government parties about how they will make the pill take for the workers. The workers and the sick they've been making pay for two years. For that, the government must do something to make them accept it. That's the debate you're having right now. I can't accept it. If, today, a small symbolic measure is taken to swallow the pill, you will not have the support of the PTB for this type of budget. Indeed, I do not understand why, when it comes to making workers pay, it is always a question of non-symbolic: we increase VAT, we block wages. But when it comes to making the rich pay, you have to stay in the symbol. Why do we have to stay in the symbol? I understand the criticisms that such a type of tax is unprofitable, as is the case with a small tax on the value of a rawette. I am thinking in particular of the tax on the capital gains of natural persons. Where do you think the rich put their shares to sell them? Not in a natural person. In company. If we want to make the rich pay, let's stop making them pay symbolically, but let's apply a profitable tax, dear friends of the CD&V! Everyone has the question of how to charge only the 2% of the richest population who have more than one million euros. For this – in this case you will have our support – you just have to put in place measures based on the heritage. It's still simple! If I want to charge someone who has more than one million euros, I'm drawing up a budget law to do so, I'm applying a tax on wealth. It's not complicated! Finally, Mr President, what is interesting in the current crisis is that we feel here in Parliament the warm breath of popular struggle. People feel it. It's about the need to make the big assets pay. One can feel that. The social movement and the pressure from the bottom up are present here. People are tired of the fact that taxes are not fair and that they are always the same ones who have to pay. People are tired of it. This is where it ends up with a government that is in crisis. This popular intensity, we will do everything we can to increase it in the coming weeks. Indeed, your weakness today gives hope to all these citizens: this government will fall back. Did you feel it? I can tell you that with the popular movements, we are going to put pressure to further widen the gap that is present today, and to push you back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u64	I propose that we vote on Mrs Meryame Kitrir's request, which was first tabled, when sitting down and standing up. I propose that we take a stand at the request of Mrs Meryame Kitir, who was tabled first. It concerns the presence of the Prime Minister in this hemisphere. I propose that we vote electronically, as requested. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 56 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The request was therefore rejected. The application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u65	The majority is not in number but in this case it does not matter. Since the request has been rejected, we should no longer vote on the other requests. As the application is rejected, we must no longer vote on the other applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-11-54-plenair-ip129x.u66	We must proceed with the adoption of the change to the agenda for this week's meetings. We must approve the change in the agenda for this week's sittings. There are no meetings on Wednesday and there are oral questions on Thursday. I accept the proposal as formulated by Mr Dewael. The discussions that have been announced, and which I assume they have the support of one fifth of the Members, will be added to Thursday's agenda. Does anyone ask for the vote on Thursday's agenda, no? Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 13 October 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
