ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, we note in the budgetary tables that you can present increasing results for the revenue from the fight against social fraud. You're unpacking that, too. While your predecessor John Crombez was not able to achieve a third of the intended revenue in 2013, you could report an amount of 78 million euros in 2015 compared to a target of 50 million. So that's a big overrun. However, in the Seventh Day of 31 January, you mentioned 180 million euros, which you realized in the fight against social fraud in 2015. The proceeds are one thing, but there are also other aspects of importance in the fight against social fraud and social dumping. Firstly, we are thinking of sufficient staff to be able to carry out on-the-spot checks. The figures you gave us on a previous question show that the number of full-time equivalents dealing with combating social fraud and social dumping has not increased in recent years. The service concerned contracted from 2011 to 2015 with seven full-time employees. For some things, checks and, therefore, people on the ground are needed. For example, the extension of the registration of the site will entail additional checks in the sector. That will also be the case for the white cash register in the catering industry. If you want to check in that area, you'll need inspectors. We assume that the social fraud hotline will also provide additional work for the inspection services. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me the exact composition of the proceeds of EUR 180 million? How should we place them against the target of EUR 50 million in 2015? Secondly, what efforts will you make to attract sufficient staff? How do you estimate the impact on the necessary staffing of controls on the white checkout, on the larger number of construction yards to be checked and on the reports via the social fraud hotline in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vercamer, for that beautiful question. First of all, I should like to point out that the checks on the white register do not fall within my competence. That is the fight against tax fraud, and Mr Van Overtveldt has the authority to do so. However, I would like to inform you that my social inspection will also, as a matter of priority, carry out checks on catering establishments which do not have a white register. That's something I'll give you as a bouncer. The instructions for this by SIOD have also been given to the social inspectors. They will check for social fraud, for undeclared work, where there is no white register, when there should actually be one. We will monitor this as a matter of priority. Mr Vercamer, if more than 15 000 people are registered in the digital tracking system, the GKS, it is only logical that we should, as a matter of priority, check the places where we have always failed to place a white register or where people are looking for excuses not to do so. To my knowledge, a number of other things have been introduced, such as flexi-jobs and overtime gross/net; it is time for the catering sector to fulfil its obligations. The budgetary objective has indeed been well achieved. I come to the results for 2015, as set out in the objectives of the Action Plan, namely EUR 50 million plus EUR 57 million, which was added afterwards, i.e. EUR 107 million in total. In 2014, the joint inspection services regularised EUR 138.7 million and for 2015 this amounts to almost EUR 181 million. This is an increase of 30%. What are the different sub-areas? The contribution fraud, which is the unpaid amounts covered by the concept of pay, the cross-border social fraud, the compulsory deduction, social debt etc., increased from around 97 million euros to almost 136 million euros. I will give you the figures later, Mr Vercamer. The benefit fraud, including work and stamping and the accumulation of stamps and disease, decreased from 39.8 million to 32 million euros. This is mainly due to the very good data mining and data matching, on which the government is committed, as stipulated in the coalition agreement and in the policy paper. The amount of false social security subjugations remains stable, from 1.5 million euros to 1.3 million euros. The fraud providers provide EUR 11.7 million. The total amount thus rises from 138.7 million to 180.9 million euros. This is mainly due to the very good cooperation between the various inspection services of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD), a targeted selection, a selection of control targets through data mining and............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's paying off. You can see this in the figures from the construction sector, EUR 39 million, and from the transport sector, EUR 16 million. Put together, it's almost 60 million, that's almost a third. However, my initial approach is not to bring in financial resources and achieve budgetary targets. Like you, I am pleased that they are being achieved. I am particularly concerned with stopping fraud by taking preventive action through the techniques of data mining and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That means better prevention than cure. This also means that, in certain very targeted actions, such as contribution fraud, real results are achieved with less money coming in, but avoiding fraud at the front door rather than collecting the fines at the back door. All this will lead to fair income and expenditure through general resources. Discussions are currently under way to allocate additional budgetary resources to the inspection services, mainly in the context of the closed plans on fair competition in the construction and transport sectors. I will work for this in the March budget control. Whatever we do, we regularly evaluate the influx of complaints resulting from the activation of the Fair Competition Communication Point. The necessary efforts will certainly be made to ensure efficient follow-up by our inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed a very good thing to carry out targeted inspections in places where no effort has been made for the white checkout. However, I am concerned by the huge increase in contribution fraud, which goes from EUR 97 million to EUR 135 million. Thus, the contribution fraud has increased enormously. Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to make an extra effort to deal with this. The benefit fraud is under control, as can be seen from the figures. It drops from 39 million euros to 32 million euros. The problem is with the contribution fraud. I propose that a plan of action be drawn up to that end. What also worries me is that you are asking for additional money for the inspection services, but that does not mean that you have it yet. I insist that everything falls or stands with the controls. We can still have so many fine words and plans, but if we do not have the inspectors to make observations, not much happens. In any case, I will support you in your demand for more staff in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u4	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, your youngest child, the social fraud hotline, started successfully in October 2015. In just two months, it received more than a thousand complaints about undeclared work and residence fraud among others. Anonymous reports are no longer possible, which was clearly communicated, although it is not easy to rule that out. At the end of August, you said that the only way to identify complainants was through the registration of their eID. Not everyone has such a device. A top social inspection officer indicated that it is technically very difficult and also very expensive to verify the identity of each complainant. Are the data that you are asking the complainant today to exclude anonymous complaints altogether? In other words, can you guarantee that anonymous complaints are impossible? Was the ruling of the top social inspection officer premature, if it would not be technically feasible to verify the identity of each complainant? Does identification remain technically feasible when the current success of the hotline continues? Will it continue to be feasible if one can also report cheating with child allowances, for example? It is intended that citizens should turn to the central hotline. I do not think it is unlikely that some people will continue to contact the inspection services directly. What happens to those complaints? Are they being forwarded to that hotline? What do the inspection services do with direct, anonymous complaints? Are they automatically rejected? Are they classified vertically or are an investigation initiated if they contain interesting, substantiated and proven information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u6	Madam President, Mr Raskin, you know that anonymous complaints cannot be made through the hotline. The citizen must state his full name, the national register number and the e-mail address. The companies must provide their company number from the CBO and an e-mail address. The reporter may try to give a fictitious name and address, but that is not the same as anonymous, so without a name and address. Giving up a fictitious name is cheating. In this first phase this is indeed not easy to control. We note, however, that the fictitious names and addresses are taken out by the inspectors. In the second phase, planned for the summer, it will be even easier to automatically check fictitious e-mail addresses, names and national registry numbers via underlying systems and databases. So we are already getting fictional out of it, that is the reality. To answer your second question: yes, we can. At present, there is no indication that we will not be able to do so in the future. The exchange of data between SIOD and inspection services shall be carried out in a secure electronic manner in phase 2. This phase will be carried out in consultation with the Privacy Commission. The social partners will have separate, secure access to submit a notification via the central point. The social partners in the construction sector and the meat sector have already requested this access. In the coming weeks, SIOD will also see the transport sector, the cleaning sector, the moving sector and the taxi sector. I will also allow NGOs and human rights organisations such as OR.C.A. In cooperation with these sectors and organisations, a higher number of reports of social dumping, e.g. posting fraud, as well as reports against employers on remuneration, working hours, annual holidays and even, as envisaged, possible trafficking in human beings will be submitted through the hotline. As far as your third question is concerned, some citizens are referring directly to the inspection service. Some remain hard learners and continue to report directly to me and my cabinet. The reports that come to me or the cabinet will be forwarded to the hotline. We do not send out the notification ourselves, but ask to submit it there. Notifications which enter directly into the inspection services shall not normally be sent to the reporting point but to the competent authority or inspection service. I have requested SIOD figures of the number of notifications that are not received via the hotline, but it should be the intention that all notifications should be made via the hotline, in order to exclude anonymous notifications. So report it directly to me or my cabinet will and will have to extinguish in time. I come to your fourth question. As far as the hotline is concerned, I can only speak for the hotline. As far as inspection services are concerned, it depends on the choice and method of operation of the inspection service concerned to treat or not to treat anonymous notifications. Let me give you the example of the RVA, which does not deal with anonymous reports. That is the choice of the inspection service of the RVA. However, they may choose to deal with notifications if concrete facts are reported which could lead to effective results. Finally, I would like to say that there is a great deal to be done about the social fraud hotline. I have only heard a lot of comments and even a lot of criticism. However, I go much further in avoiding anonymous complaints than, for example, the hotline of Economy or the hotline of Animal Welfare, where no RSZ number has to be entered. I am therefore sticking to what has already been said in university centres as a typical example of my social fraud hotline and can be an example for all the other hotlines in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed not intended that the hotline should become a glorified click line. That is not the case, it is clear. I also hear from you that the system is able to do what it has to do, even when it is extended. That seems to me to be a good thing. The only point I want to make is that we must ensure that certain anonymous complaints, which go directly to the social inspection services and contain very specific information, are not simply ignored. We must not, of course, launch a witch hunt, but if there are indications of large fraud cases, stinking jars, then it must be possible for the services to work on the basis of anonymous complaints. I hear from you that this is already possible, that the service itself can make that assessment. We will therefore try to follow up as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u8	Madam President, if I may, I would like to deal with my questions together, Nos 8325 and 9754, because they deal with the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u9	Mr. Secretary of State, do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u10	Oui, je suis dиaccord. Both questions are from the same applicant. Mr Raskin, now I see the answer to your question No. 1776 under item 1 between my documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I had that question translated into a written question. It dates back a long time ago, which means that its relevance is gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u12	I can see that, but I'm sorry it's stuck for so long. Even if it's just one question, I'm always willing to come to the committee. I now read that this question dates back to January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u13	That's right. There is another question on the agenda to which you have already replied in plenary. I will pass on that question today. It's been a long time since we've seen each other in this setting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u14	You don't have to hold back. I am always available to Parliament. So you don't have to drag a question around for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, it is good to hear that you are always prepared to come to Parliament. In this way, we can see that parliamentary experience can be useful once one is in another position. So it's nice that you don't deny your roots. Mr Secretary of State, on Tuesday 22 December, two hundred Hungarian truck drivers parked their truck on a meadow in Opglabbeek. They then left by bus for their homeland, to return after Christmas and continue their work here. Unfortunately, the situation in Opglabbeek is not unique. Following the publication of that situation in the press, I received several addresses where the same practices are in progress. There is a collective agreement on equal pay/equal work. That collective agreement clearly states that a driver who picks up and leaves his vehicle in Belgium must be paid according to the wages and conditions applicable here. Over six thousand jobs have been lost in our country in recent years, including the failure to comply with cabotage rules. There is an urgent need to do something about this. Together with my colleague David Geerts, we tabled two legislative proposals which partly respond to this problem. A first legislative proposal concerns cabotage rules and could clarify the current rules without prejudice to the Union's regulatory competence. The second proposal concerns the improper use of relocation. This legislative proposal ensures that the determination by a social security institution or a social inspector that the conditions of establishment, vehicles or operation are not met shall be regarded as evidence of social abuse. You stated in the plenary session of 7 January that there are already discussions with Bulgaria and Romania on bilateral agreements. This should make it possible to further combat social dumping. This is not yet the case for Hungary. You also said that the hotline would be extended for employers, organisations, trade unions and so on. In this way, these groups can also report possible practices of social dumping. I have the following questions for you. What is the state of play in the negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania? When do you expect to conclude an agreement on social dumping with these countries? In view of the current circumstances, will talks with Hungary also be launched on this issue? When do you expect the hotline to be adjusted for the listed groups? I would like to add my question No. 9754 to this. On Thursday 18 February, I read in De Standaard that the social inspection services found no evidence that the Hungarian transport company Waberer Münchens would be guilty of social fraud in our country. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to be very surprised by this conclusion. The cabotage rule is very clear: a driver can do up to three domestic journeys after each international journey, otherwise there is unfair competition. However, I could see with my own eyes that the trucks were parked and that the drivers were picked up and brought back from Hungary. So there is still work to be done on the monitoring of social dumping. That's what the Court of Auditors says in a report from 2015. It is clear that the letters of lading are not always conclusive, so that drivers could make journeys disappear or change loading and unloading places. As I said, my colleague David Geerts has already tabled a legislative proposal to amend the applicable labour legislation. The Court of Auditors further states that cabotage does not represent a greater proportion of domestic transport in the European Union than in Belgium. That is why I have the following questions for you, Mr Secretary of State. What possible infringements were investigated at Waberer's? On what basis is it concluded that there were no infringements? What initiatives will you take to improve the control of illegal cabotage? Since the Court of Auditors' report, have any steps been taken to deal with fraud by means of non-closing consignment letters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u16	Mrs Kitir, as regards your first question on social dumping in the sector, I can tell you that cooperation between Member States is essential. I have already mentioned this in the plenary session of 7 January. In 2016, I will travel to Bulgaria and Romania with this Social Affairs Committee. The trip was planned for spring, but due to an unforeseen European meeting I had to postpone it, There will also be contacts with other countries for further cooperation. I'm not pinning on data, but I'm pinning on results. The aim of the study trip of this committee is to pave the way for further cooperation. I do not want to anticipate the facts, but we will look at the extent to which cooperation can be supported on the ground. Mrs Kitir, I hope you will join me, because I'm sure your persuasiveness will help. Bulgaria and Romania are not the only countries in the transport sector. Other sectors, such as the construction sector, also suffer from unfair competition from Eastern Europe. I would also like to discuss the problems of fraudulent posting and I would like to see the possible cooperation under the A1 procedure discussed. My services are currently gathering a lot of figures to identify the bottlenecks. If one goes on a visit to cooperation, one has to be prepared. I would like to come up with figures and data so that we can convince colleagues in those countries together. In Hungary, we will start discussions, which is also part of the plan for fair competition in the transport sector. As you know, that plan was signed on 3 February. In this plan, we are committed to cooperation between the inspection services of the various Member States. The hotline will also include a separate button for organisations and the social partners. The companies, VBO, UNIZO, ABVV, ACV and ACLVB will all be able to use the button for the organisations. I suggest that it be operational in May 2016. That button should contribute even more to better controls in the fight against social dumping. I also expect the transposition of the enforcement directive into Belgian law, a draft by Mr Peeters and myself that is currently before the NAR for advice. If that is done, whatever Mrs Thyssen is asking us to do, it will give the inspection services more leverage for cooperation. Then I'll come to your additional questions about Waberer's. I have seen that Mr Foret has turned his question into a written question, so that is not a problem. Mrs Kitir, our inspection services have checked everything in terms of their competence, everything. However, I cannot punish what is allowed and I cannot simply fish companies because they are Eastern European. That would be a very discriminatory attitude, if I were to punish just because one is Eastern European or because one has a certain nationality or origin. As you know, that's not my style. It is not because something resembles social dumping that it is. I have the impression that, in the run-up to the social elections, some people are throwing themselves away and immediately reducing everything that looks somewhat strange to social dumping. I think this is a wrong attitude. If a transport company is based in Hungary and makes international journeys to Western European countries, then the drivers who drive for the Hungarian transport company can do international transport and get Hungarian wages. It is not because they drive through Belgium, the Netherlands and France that they should suddenly be posted and suddenly get the wages from here. If it is a Hungarian company that drives from Hungary to France, then there is nothing wrong with that. As a liberal, it is impossible for me to abolish the free movement of goods and persons in Europe in order to protect our own market. That would be very much protectionism, and that is not my style either. What I do want to abolish is unfair competition. I have indeed concluded an action plan with the social partners for transport and inspection services. I effectively advocate the use of existing technologies in the fight against social dumping, but always with respect for privacy. In any action, we must always take the privacy test. However, more cooperation between the FPS Mobility and the social inspection services is also needed in order, inter alia, to be able to adequately control cabotage. Everyone knows, however, that cabotage is not easy to detect. We must also ask ourselves whether cabotage is the only problem. In fact, PO Box companies pose at least the same problem. In any case, I will focus on checking the manifests, but always in proportion to the infringement. I will not punish the oblivion of an administration as severely as highly deliberate social fraud and trafficking in human beings. Following the Court of Auditors' report, which said that we need to focus more on cooperation between the FPS Mobility and the social inspection services, steps have certainly been taken. I have agreed a plan of 30 concrete measures and a protocol with the transport sector, together with the ministers Galant, Van Overtveldt and Borsus. One of the points raised by all partners on the round table, both by employers, inspection services and trade unions, is the demand for clearer regulation and more controls. Mr Vercamer has since left in March, but I would like to repeat it once again in the course of budgetary control to ask for additional inspectors with a view to further and even better controls, including in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to say that I have asked my questions because you are the Secretary of State responsible for social fraud, not because you are liberal. From that point of view, I have prepared my question. I'll start with the positive. I am pleased that the hotline is coming up and I am convinced that it will be a means to speed up the detection of social fraud and dumping. I know that a visit to Bulgaria is planned. Since you have invited me again personally, I will make sure that I am there. However, I hope you will not wait for the visit to Bulgaria. The situation is well known. I also know you as someone who doesn't sit still and who moves forward. I therefore hope that you will take steps in the meantime. I am also pleased to hear that talks with Hungary have also begun. That's important. I still find your last point on the transport sector strange. I am not asking you to fish anyone, for example in terms of nationality. All I'm asking is for the rules to be respected. It's just a fact that our inspectors may not always have the tools to do the right checks. I am pleased that you will be asking for additional inspectors during budgetary control. We shall see if we can do that, because I have heard various ministers asking and demanding everything in recent weeks. However, I very much hope that you will have the inspectors, because I am convinced that they are necessary in order to carry out the checks. I also invite you to go through the bill on cabotage and include the initiatives in budgetary control so that this social fraud can be combated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u18	For the record, when I ask for money, I always pay for it. I am a Secretary of State who has asked very little but has always delivered the last year. The proceeds of social fraud are coming in. I said that some of those revenues will have to be used to reinvest in controls and inspections. That's what's gonna happen. I am perhaps a little better placed for this than some of my fellow Members who ask but give nothing. Mrs. Kitir, I have to be honest with you. I also had an answer to Mr Foret's almost similar question, which he turned into a written question. I gave the answer to his associate. It contains figures on checks that have been carried out and where infringements have been found in a number of cases. Normally, I would have read them here. If Mr Foret gets the figures, you have the right to do so. The same applies to Mr Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u19	Mrs Fonck is not present for her question No 8374.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u20	In the magazine Ons Recht, a problem of social dumping was brought to light by several IT companies in our country. Highly skilled workers from India get a work permit from Flanders and then replace our employees. This is possible because a treaty with India states that Indian workers can work in Belgium for three years without social contributions being paid. This also applies in the opposite direction. According to social criminal law, it is not allowed to bring persons to Belgium for payment and to seek work for them. That is what happens in some companies in the sector, so to speak, because they do not find highly skilled workers here. Indians are brought in, where their own IT officers are fired. This is a very damaging situation for the workers in our country. Are you aware of such constructions? Have you discussed the problem with the Flemish Minister of Work Philippe Muyters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u21	I am now aware of the situation reported in the trade magazine Ons Recht. The agreement on social security between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of India does not provide that social security is not paid for three years. However, it provides that social security is to be paid in the country of origin for a period of 60 months. That is also the case for posting. The non-payment of social security is like an abuse I'm trying to combat. IT service providers coming from India should, however, have a contract of employment in advance. Only on that basis can they get a card. The reported construction is only possible if the Flemish government and administration deliver the work cards to the Indian IT service. I will therefore consult with my Flemish colleague Philippe Muyters to see under what conditions the situation can be corrected. In fact, it can't be. My services are therefore conducting an extensive investigation into compliance with the wage and working conditions under Belgian law and their possible impact on the work cards delivered. As soon as the investigation is completed, you will no doubt be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u22	I'm glad you're taking the file to heart. Our employees cannot be placed in that position. I'm glad you'll discuss it. I will ask you in due course about the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u23	Mrs Jadin is not present. His question No 8670 is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked you a question on this subject, the subsidiary joint and several liability for social debts in the construction sector. In this context, the National Labour Council recommends in its Opinion No. 1795 to recover social debts as a matter of priority through the mechanism of retention on the invoice when it is not a question of constructions through shell boxes or bankruptcy. This recommendation is also reiterated in another opinion No. 1943. The subsidiary joint and several liability was introduced in order to avoid that the malicious subcontractor would escape the payment of social debts by declaring itself bankrupt or setting up fictitious companies. The RSZ then systematically climbs into the building chain to collect those social debts. It may also be done if the contractor has correctly paid the deduction higher in the chain and it is not fraudulent practices. The NAR's advice was not carried out, since the contractor was not provided with a freeing character for a jointly and severally liable subcontractor, even if it is in good faith and it is not a malicious construction. You have repeatedly stated that those who are in good faith should not be punished. Will you implement the NAR's advice for the time being and, if so, in what way? If so, will you inform the sector sufficiently about the adapted regulations? Will you, for example, launch a awareness campaign in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Raskin. Following opinions Nos 1795 and 1943 of the National Labour Council, I instructed the administration to examine how the proposal formulated by the Council could be translated into regulatory texts. The administration is currently examining how, in the context of subsidiary joint and several liability, more legal certainty can be offered to clients and contractors who are in good faith, which is also your concern. As always, the administration, in this case the RSZ, will launch the necessary information campaigns when introducing new legislation or regulations in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u26	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. We all agree that fraud needs to be dealt with. Strict rules are necessary, but as you say, the aim should not be to make wrong victims; people who are in good faith should not be unduly affected. I look forward to the results of the research and the possible follow-up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u27	Question No 8941 by Mr Clarinval is postponed, as is his questions No 7877 and No 9701, since he accompanies our chairman of the Committee in Palestine. So we come to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u28	We all agree that free movement is a positive achievement for all the countries of the Union. But we still have to see that there are some imbalances, particularly in terms of secondment. For example, as many as 100,000 workers are posted in our country, while only half of Belgian workers are posted in other countries. In order to take an even more impressive example, Poland is the one which is detaching a large number of workers, both in other countries and at home, in general, fourteen times more for the whole of Europe, all countries combined. This makes me think that the regulation makes it possible, above all, to replace local workers with external labour, which is obviously cheaper. A system for the exchange of information between States on cross-border workers is planned for 2019. Personally, I find that this evolution is very slow when we see what is happening today. I would like to know, Mr Secretary of State, what are your options and what are Belgium's options through your function, how will you speed up this process? What about the idea of creating a fraud observatory at European level, which should centralise information on irregular and/or criminal secondment activities? On the other hand, we found that Form A1, which purports to prove that the person is a member of the social security system of his or her country, lacks homogeneity from one country to another. Does Belgium have the will to ensure that it is in the future standardised and more comprehensible, without any interpretation, but also issued a priori and mandatory? I'd like to have your feeling at that level. Can our country also defend the idea that, if this A1 document is not available, the host country can claim social security contributions from the posted worker? Finally, what is the possibility for you to establish a European minimum wage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u29	Mrs de Coster, I refer first of all to Mr Raskin's parliamentary question No 116, which deals with the same subject. I recall once again the principle and the state of play of the ESI project. The Social Security Rights Project provides for the establishment of an IT platform at European level that will allow the competent national social security institutions to exchange information in the framework of the coordination of social security systems between 32 countries, the 18 Member States of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. But it's not a data bank. Very concretely, with regard to the applicable legislation, the system will allow the competent institutions to exchange information contained in the certificates of the legislation applicable in the various situations, such as secondment or occupation in several territories, etc. The central platform is currently being developed. The final version of the central platform and the technical specifications on the basis of which Member States must start their implementation work are expected to be ready by the end of 2016. Member States will then have a two-year transitional period to connect their social security institutions to the central network. Belgium, via the Social Security FPS, the Social Security Bank and ONSS in particular, closely monitor the development of the project and its planning, participating in the various workshops and meetings organised by the European Commission for technical, administrative and legal aspects. Furthermore, in April 2014, the European Commission proposed the creation of a European platform to improve cooperation at European level to combat undeclared work. Finally, this platform was adopted by the European Parliament on 2 February 2016. The model form A1 used by the competent institutions in 32 countries was prepared by the Administrative Commission. The format and information to be included therein are therefore identical and standardised. On the other hand, the procedures and checks carried out in each of the Member States for issuing this A1 certificate are not identical and depend on internal practice or even national legislation. The National Social Security Office, among others, is actively participating in a working group set up by the European Commission on applicable legislation. One of the tasks of the group is to consider the development of a list of questions and elements to be checked for the issuance of this certificate. The final report of the working group is expected to be defended by the Administrative Commission in June 2016. I am not against such an idea which can improve the collection of social contributions. As you know, I am so that the host Member State can recover the contributions and transfer the contributions to the sending Member State. In the current state of European coordination rules, therefore, there are no sanctions if no sanctions exist. Making the document mandatory and issued before the start of the activity requires an adaptation of European rules. I am in any case in favour of such an adaptation of these rules. Without an A1 certificate, the only document that can prove that another Member State's social security system remains applicable, the basic principle of social security coverage in the country of work applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u30	Thank you, Secretary of State. This is a difficult and complex issue. I note that we are on the right track as this working group is in place. This should lead to concrete proposals that you, knowing you, will certainly implement. We share the same philosophy because you are in favour of this adaptation. I think you will be careful that this is implemented as soon as possible. This is certainly positive for our companies while respecting European regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I asked a question earlier on about the evaluation of legislation on the nature of employment relations, but we had to wait a little longer, as the deadline for the evaluation by the NAR was postponed until the beginning of this year at the end of September 2015 at the request of the social partners. That's why I'm asking a new question. Legislation on the nature of industrial relations plays an important role in the fight against bogus self-employment, but it is not always effective and not always applicable in practice. For example, the application of the criteria on the basis of which it is assessed whether or not it is false self-employment would be extremely complex in a number of sectors. Has that evaluation been completed by now? I hope so, because we have already been asked for and allowed to postpone. What are the main conclusions of the evaluation? Has policy recommendations been made or is there any indication as to where the legislation can be adapted? How is the existing list of criteria assessed? Does it need to be changed or not? To what extent can appropriate criteria be used in other sectors? How is a better approach to bogus self-employment possible in the future? What actions will you take yourself in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I had already put a question. In the meantime, on 26 January 2016, the NAR issued its opinion on the review of legislation on the nature of labour relations. Together with colleagues from the PS, we tabled a legislative proposal to amend the legislation on strengthening the fight against social dumping. With this proposal, we want the rebuttal of the presumption of false self-employment to be based only on the specific criteria that record the real socio-economic relationship. We are told that the existing combination of general and specific criteria often makes it impossible for inspection services in practice to requalify the nature of the employment relationship. You also address that problem yourself in your policy letter. The bill has not yet been dealt with. The NAR's advice is now ready. Are you willing to review the mix of general and specific criteria for determining the employment relationship? What conclusions do you draw from the evaluation of the NAR?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u33	The evaluation has indeed been completed. At the end of January, a good month ago, we received the opinions of the National Labour Council, the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed, the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs and the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service. There are indeed many questions about the effectiveness of the law in cross-border fraud. The law applies mainly to Belgian companies. There is also the question of whether the sector-specific criteria are adapted to the purpose of the law and the nature of the sector. In view of the double control of the general criteria in the law and the sector-specific criteria in the CABs, Minister Borsus intends to abolish the sector-specific criteria and only retain the general criteria. Therefore, the NAR has asked additional questions to the Joint Committees, namely whether specific criteria are desirable, whether they are adapted to and efficient for the sectors concerned, why specific criteria were chosen or not, and whether the employment relationship law is effectively used against cross-border fraud. We expect further input from the relevant Joint Committees by 1 July 2016. Before we can change the law, on the initiative of and in consultation with Mr Borsus and Mr Peeters, we must have a clear answer on the opinion of the individual joint committees. I therefore continue to support the opinions of the NAR, the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs, the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-employed and the SIOD, as laid down by law. Mr Borsus has already said in the press that he wants to drop the specific criteria, as I have just said. Since he is responsible for the evaluation, this will certainly be examined in conjunction with the opinions of the various policy bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u34	The evaluation is finally complete and there are recommendations on the table. A number of bottlenecks have emerged. In particular, the evaluation has shown that additional research is needed. The Joint Committees will therefore be asked for further consideration and advice by 1 July. I hope that we will then land and that you will be able to work with Ministers Borsus and Peeters on a final settlement to tackle social dumping and bogus self-employment in various sectors. I'll be patient again until the beginning of the next summer. Then we'll pick it up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u35	I was very surprised at the press release by Minister Borsus that he wanted to abandon the four general principles on the basis of the opinion. I read the opposite of his proposal in the opinion. It is repeated several times that there is a desire to move towards a sectoral approach. They are asking for specific criteria. In the countries around us, too, the abuse of the statutes has recently been intertwined. There, too, the criteria relating to the real socio-economic relationship are increasingly being used. I sincerely hope that we do not return to the 2006 law. That would be a big step backwards. I am glad that you do not announce this and that you will ask further questions. I will question you again in due course after the conclusions have been formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u36	As Mr Raskin was absent, his questions Nos 9696 and 9697 were transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, this issue must be linked to the debate that has animated us and which will lead us again in the Committee on Social Affairs, concerning your bill to introduce a system of systematic transmission of energy data of our citizens and to examine among those who are recipients of social assistance whether there are frauds of domicile and fictitious residences. In our debates, I asked you to be able to objective a few figures and I told you that I would try to support these figures with an oral question, which I am doing now. This project will come back to committee next week. The fundamental question is whether your project is effective and at the same time respectful of fundamental rights, which are two of your duties as Secretary of State. It is also a question of demonstrating, which has not yet been done, how the "pull" system would be ineffective, to such an extent that it would be necessary to replace it with an "extreme" system, in the words of the Council of State, a "push" system. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that since then you have had the opportunity, together with your administration, to support this project with a few figures. In 2015, how many checks were carried out to verify whether a social benefit is granted on the basis of a fictitious address? How many of these checks have resulted in a finding of home fraud? Secondly, Parliament voted on your proposal last year for a house visit law. This is the law of 10 August 2015. How many home visits have been made by ONEM since the Act came into force? How many home visits have resulted in a finding of home fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u38	Mr Delizée, following your presentation in the Committee on Social Affairs, I understand that you are a fan of the "pull" system. However, it has never worked, and that is why I would like to introduce a push system. This is not at all an extreme system, as you say in your question. Indeed, as confirmed during the hearings, distribution system operators can provide correct and quality data. For the time being, in response to your question, I can provide you with the following answers. The legislative amendment which was made by the Program Law of 10 August 2015 and which again allows the ONEM to go to the unemployed without having to call them in advance for a hearing, applies since September 2015. Until 31 December 2015, 61 home visits were made: 33 in the Flemish Region, 24 in the Walloon Region and 4 in the Brussels Region. So this is not a witch hunt at all! In addition, in these 61 cases, it was not once necessary to apply to the investigating judge for permission to enter inhabited premises because the unemployed objected. For your information, I can confirm that the ONEM does not file data on the number of home checks in previous years, but there was almost no data because the procedure was too complicated. The fact that in 2014 almost 37 million euros were recovered because of home fraud shows that the fight against it is necessary in order to be able to reserve social security for those who really need it. For 2015, this amounts to €30.7 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u39	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, the section of the law that concerns the sweater system has been passed but it has not been implemented by means of a royal decree. We are therefore not in a position to say whether it is effective or ineffective because it has not been implemented. Our group supports a system of control by the sweater system, which your party and mine voted together under the previous legislature. I would like to make a second point about the "extreme" system. The "extreme" system is not a quote from Jean-Marc Delizée but rather from the Council of State in its opinion. As far as the figures are concerned, I thank you for the ones you have brought me, but it does not seem to me that you have answered my first set of questions in terms of the number of checks. You told me that 37 million euros were recovered in 2014 and 30.7 million euros in 2015. Could you tell me how many files this represents? You're giving me amounts. How many people does this concern? That was the meaning of my question. If you do not have this information today, perhaps you could pass it on to us in our debate next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u40	You will certainly come back to the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u41	Yes, I will return, Madam President. You can count on me. This must indeed be balanced with all the beneficiaries and the amounts allocated. Amounts are recovered. I say again; we do not support any such fraud. This, however, shows that the current system gives results of relative effectiveness. Your goal is to do better. My demonstration is that your project will not succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u42	It is also intended to prevent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u43	Results are obtained at the control level with the current system. You give them to me in amounts, but you don't give them to me in numbers. As far as home visits are concerned, 61 visits in relation to the number of persons concerned are obviously quite derisory proportionally. But you don't tell me either, how many frauds there were on those 61 visits. Is this 100% fraud, 50%, 10%, 5%? How many cases of fraud have there been of those 61 cases that justified the passing of this law last summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u44	I don't have the numbers with me. I'll give them to you later. In my policy note, you saw that I also want to prevent and avoid fraud. It's necessary. That is the real thing – not amounts, not figures, but avoiding social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u45	I'll finish. On the figures, I'm missing two figures from what I asked for. On prevention, we'll talk about it again next week and you'll show me how your future system will be preventive or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u46	In the report on the conclusions adopted by the European Council at its meeting on 19 February, I read in the section 'Social benefits and freedom of movement': 'Whoever enjoys the right to free movement must comply with the laws of the host Member State'. Member States may, in accordance with Union law, take measures to prevent abuse of law or fraud, such as the presentation of false documents. This passage is very relevant in the context of the social anti-abuse clause contested by the European Commission, introduced in Belgian law by Articles 23 and 24 of the Programme Act in 2012. These legal provisions are just about the figure of the abuse of law. In the terms of the law, it sounds like an abuse of the designation rules on applicable legislation in the European coordination claims. My questions are therefore very simple. Will this conclusion be relied on by the Belgian authorities in its defence of the contested provision? Did you call on the Prime Minister and Minister Reynders to use the negotiations in the European Council and the General Affairs Preparatory Council, respectively, to confirm that this conclusion is equally applicable in the context of the abuse of law in the case of the posting of workers and self-employed persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u47	The conclusions concerning the defence of the anti-abuse clause and a reply to the European Commission's reply have already been submitted to the Registry of the Court of Justice. As I mentioned earlier in the Committee on Social Affairs, the administration and the lawyer representing this case are doing all they can to bring this procedure to a successful conclusion. The argument about abuse of law was of course raised, as was the principle of fraus omnia corrumpit. Our conclusions before the Court of Justice preceded the European Council and could not therefore be adopted with reference to the European Council on 19 February. An important comment in this passage was about bogus marriages and circumventing immigration rules, a different but no less serious context than the anti-abuse clause. The anti-abuse clause is a legal battle currently being fought before the Court of Justice. So the ball is in his camp. I do not think there is much point in revisiting the political discourse on this issue. That has little added value. In addition, it is a case before the Court of Justice. The European Council is not the place to interfere in pending proceedings before the Court. In Europe too, the principle of the separation of powers applies. As you know, in a previous life, I chaired a committee on the separation of powers. So that's sensitive to me. Mrs Kitir, the Court must now do its job and be able to do it. It is only after the oral argument and the opinion of the Advocate General that we have a better understanding of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic357x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer, but allow me to be a little disappointed. Nothing prevents this government from fully defending the anti-abuse clause, if it is really serious. This passage will certainly go in the positive direction when it comes to our defence. I regret that it is said too easily that these conclusions came after our opinions had already been received. In your place, I would do everything in my power to ensure that we can use this anti-abuse clause. We are truly convinced that this is a good instrument in the context of false self-employment.
