ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I am a little embarrassed to ask you this question, not because it was prepared several months ago and because the conveniences of each other gave me only today the opportunity to ask it, but because I took note of my colleague's intellectual curiosity. It travels between the world stock exchanges and European considerations. I will come back very modestly to the "small Belgian level" to ask you my questions. Minister, I know how much you have been committed to defending SMEs and the TPEs in the economic recovery that the country is currently experiencing. In this regard, you have made provisions with the government that have been published at the start of the government, and more specifically measures for start-ups, more commonly referred to as "tax shelter SMEs". In these provisions, a large part is made to the King and the executive to determine the decrees that will allow the implementation of the text. However, to my knowledge and at this stage, the decrees have not yet been published. I understand, however, that businesses, both small and new, have a real expectation and show a kind of willingness to benefit from this measure. So, Minister, what is the current status of the enforcement mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u2	Mr. Scourneau, a first draft royal decree determines how proof that the conditions are met can be provided for the granting of the tax reduction for the acquisition of new shares or shares of start-ups. It also specifies how the taxpayer can prove that it is still in possession of the shares or shares. This order was forwarded to the Council of State, which delivered its opinion a few days ago. Following the comments of the Council of State, the decree is being finalized. It is at second reading and work is nearing completion. In addition, an implementing order has yet to be issued. It shall specify the formalities which an approved starter fund must fulfil in order to meet the conditions laid down. There is ongoing consultation with FSMA on this issue. This order will be transmitted shortly to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u3	Mr Minister, I have the information that I wanted to have, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u4	Mr President, Minister, last November, the European Investment Bank (EIB) announced the renewal of a EUR 200 million loan to Belfius, which is responsible for granting twice that amount of credit to SMEs in Belgium. In reality, this type of "SME loans" also exists between the EIB and the other major Belgian banks: BNP Paribas Fortis, KBC and ING Belgium. Since 2010, the EIB has provided these loans to our large banks for a total of €2.2 billion. This means of financing is highly appreciated by banks because the EIB, an institution owned by the 28 Member States of the European Union, enjoys an optimal rating on financial markets. They can therefore borrow from the EIB at very advantageous rates. This mechanism is also of interest to our SMEs, as it allows them easier access to finance and investment. In addition, smaller banks also complain about this EIB lending mechanism, which is seen as unfair competition, while the EIB, for its part, claims to be open to smaller banking institutions. Mr Minister, this SME lending mechanism is, for us, very positive for the development of our SMEs and therefore for our economy. I would have wanted to know if there were any possibilities, Belgian or European, to further develop them, and if so, what initiatives the government has taken or will take in this direction. With regard to the question of smaller banks, which also play a role in financing our SMEs, what avenues can be envisaged to improve access to these financings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u5	My colleague, the decision whether or not to extend this SME loan scheme is the exclusive responsibility of the European Investment Bank (EIB). The eligibility criteria are multiple and defined by the bank itself. They cover the type of credit, the sectors of activity, the purpose of the financing, the maximum amount of the investment and the maximum amount of the credit. Another important financing channel for our SMEs is the European Investment Fund. This fund, which is also part of the EIB Group, aims to improve access to finance for micro-enterprises and SMEs through the provision of risk capital instruments and guarantee instruments through venture capital funds from banks and financial institutions. All banks, including the smallest banks, play a key role in financing our SMEs. The EIB's decision to work with a particular bank is an operational decision that falls within the competence of the EIB itself. Your question also concerns measures for the benefit of SMEs. You are certainly aware that the government has taken specific initiatives in recent months to support SMEs, mainly through the tax shift. As regards the granting of loans, we have intervened with the financial sectors and SMEs on the issue of interest rate swaps. Rules of conduct and directives have emerged for the financial sector for the benefit of SMEs in relation to this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u6	Minister, thank you. This question had been tabled in November 2015 and the agenda of this committee is busy, so I was not able to ask it sooner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u7	Mr Minister, in your Customs Action Plan you mention that the department wants to speed up the handling of the files, which, of course, seems to me to be a very good thing. We can create a competitive advantage for our companies, and we can also generate revenue for our State. I'm interested in the treatment period. I have also asked a question about it before, the written question No. 415. I was somewhat surprised to hear you say in the answer to that question that the time limits for handling applications for excise duty services are currently not systematically recorded. That sounds weird to me. The causes and problems are also not recorded. If the cause and problem are not recorded, it is, of course, difficult to identify most of the bottlenecks and which points most urgently need to be resolved in order to make these processes more efficient. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, there are understandably no legal deadlines. Do you recognise that not systematically registering treatment periods and documenting problems is a handicap to make customs and excise services more efficient and modernise? Isn't that a core task for those services? Secondly, in order to speed up the handling of dossiers, do you intend to change that? If so, at what time and within what timeframe do you plan that change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u8	Mr Dedecker, in the past, the time limits for issuing licences and for administrative and accounting checks, as you said correctly, were indeed not managed and followed because the legislation in question does not provide for deadlines. There is now a change in that. The administration Customer Management and Marketing of the General Administration of Customs and Excise aims to measure and register the handling times of files and assignments for management purposes. To this end, there is, of course, a need for an automated management system, to register all files via a single national system and also to make the data accessible online. In order to start this system, a period of up to 12 months should be taken into account, so that implementation is a more optimistic forecast by the end of 2016. As regards the reimbursement files, by mid-2016, June 2016, a centralised application will ensure the follow-up of these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u9	Mr Minister, it is true that we need a zero measurement first, and only then can we communicate about results. However, I can see that the ambition is there. One needs such an online portal to be able to see as a customer the status of a file. That is a first step towards customer friendliness. The administration needs to work even more customer-oriented, focused on providing a service to citizens and businesses. That is a good step forward and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u10	Mr Vanvelthoven apologized. He's at a meeting with Fedasil in Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, you know our views on tax regularization transactions. The Government's intention was to carry out these regularization operations. However, they could not succeed since they were removed from the programme law passed before the Christmas holidays. In addition, you had to consult the federated entities in this regard, which, as the Council of State has indicated, are also concerned. Since a consultation committee was held during the first week of the holidays, I would like to take stock of this with you. Minister, what opinion has been given by the three Regions? What are their demands? Is the federal government prepared to respond positively? Are you going to file a new amended text or are you abandoning the idea of a new tax regularization that you can replace with more efficient tax services in tax collection? Indeed, in our view, the tax is due and those who do not pay it must be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u12	Mr Gilkinet, the federal government has decided to organise a new permanent tax regularization. The entry into force was originally scheduled for January 1 of this year. However, we have adapted the timing to allow us to have a profitable consultation with the Regions. It is now up to the Regions to decide whether or not they wish to participate through a cooperation agreement with the federal government. The Flemish Government has already indicated that it wishes to participate. As far as Brussels and Wallonia are concerned, the situation is not entirely clear. It goes without saying that, at the level of regularization, all matters relating to the federal tax will be carried out by the federal government. We hope that the cooperation agreements will be drawn up quickly in consultation with all the regions, taking into account the comments made by the Council of State on certain specific points of the proposed regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u13	Minister, I take note of the fact that you are continuing with your intention of a new tax regularization that would be permanent. A new information has come up: in response to the opinion of the Council of State, you favour the way of the cooperation agreement which would allow the division of powers between the levels of power to be respected. Wallonia and Brussels reserve their answer. However, I have become aware of fairly clear positions on the subject, including expectations in terms of funding other skills on their part. I assume that this issue will be discussed in a forthcoming consultation committee. For our part, we are not fervent with a new tax regularization. However, if it were to emerge, it seems to us that the question of the origin of the funds that would be regularized is essential. People who want to regularize must be able to justify the origin of their capital, otherwise it is a possibility to organize money laundering, which would have been diverted from the tax. It also seems to us that the progressive system of fines and penalties, which was provided for in the original text, is appropriate in order to encourage taxpayers to regularise their situation as quickly as possible and to divert them from this path of programming fraud and regularisation at the same time. We may have an opportunity to discuss it again if you reach an agreement with the federated entities and if you resubmit a text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 7660 by Mrs Catherine Fonck has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Almaci has asked to turn her question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u16	Mr Van den Bergh has also tabled a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u17	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the VAT dossier for youth homes, which we also discussed at the end of November. Together with the Format action, this has led to an increase in the exemption threshold from EUR 50 000 to EUR 80 000. However, we are left with the fundamental question of whether the VAT exemption for youth homes should in itself be called into question. You always refer to European judgments or a threat of default on the part of Europe, but so far we have not found any hard evidence to suggest that it is really urgent to introduce VAT for youth homes, starting on 1 January 2016. That is why I shall come back to that. We ourselves have gone into various European documents to check the ground for this arrangement. For the time being, we have not been able to find any European judgment that explicitly deals with the VAT treatment of a drink in a youth home or other social institution. We therefore wonder why you are referring to this and what European judgments it would be about. Why do you state in your press release that the raising of the ceiling is your maximum possible benefit, whereas up to now there is no European legal provision on this matter. You referred somewhere to an arrangement that would apply in one of our neighbouring countries, but the question is again what European legal basis the EUR 80 000 would be based on. Quite specifically, I would like to ask you about the specific European legal basis for determining whether a youth house is distorting competition if the youth house is running more than EUR 80 000 per year, while, among other things, the Kingscrest judgment C-498/03 expressly states that national legislation lays down the provisions for the recognition or non-recognition as an institution with a social purpose. In my opinion, the determination of whether or not a youth house is engaged in youth work is a competence of the Communities in our country, i.e. the local authorities, after the various state reforms. In the preparation of my question I also refer to the published directive of the European VAT Committee of 1989. That is, of course, history for a long time, but in our search for guidelines, we still stumbled upon it. It also explicitly stated that it is for the Member States to determine whether or not an institution is fulfilling a social objective. Another interesting development is the position of Advocate General Yves Bot of 9 July 2015, which is much more recent, in the Les Jardins de Jouvence case, where café and restaurant services are also provided in the context of assistance housing operations. The Advocate General came to the conclusion that they were inextricably linked, but in addition, because the main issue was something else. The same reasoning could be applied to youth homes. Mr Minister, is it not a performance that should be regarded as a secondary performance in a main achievement, if it is not an end in itself but a means of ensuring that the main performance, in this case youth work, can be carried out under optimal conditions? If not, why not? Can you explain why you do not follow the case law of the Court of Justice? I believe that a youth home coupled with the operation of a drinking facility is inextricably linked, but that it is always a secondary activity of the youth home, as a form of youth work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u18	Mr Van den Bergh, I will let you deliver the case law of the European Court of Justice. In the meantime, this bundle has already been delivered to a number of your fellow Members. I do not think it is intended to go into this in detail. You will find that the case-law on this matter is fairly clear and that, in the case-law of the European Court of Justice, there is clearly no distinction between secondary and substantive matters. The operation of a public place is the operation of a public place. That is the rule which is clearly the result of the case law that we have processed and which is somewhat contrary to what you have just said. I suggest I have you deliver that bundle. On that basis, we can resume the discussion. However, I insist that it is a form of proactive, good policy to protect youth homes from the sudden intervention by Europe which would impose VAT duty in any form whatsoever. We have seen what happened to the excess profit rulings. It is true that France and the Netherlands have also built in borders close to EUR 50 000. With the increase to EUR 80 000, we have slightly exceeded that. I am aware that this has been introduced relatively informally in order to avoid problems with the case law of the Court of Justice. I would like to stick very strongly to the decision and the modification of the decision taken at the end of last year. I will have you deliver the bundle of case law of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you in advance for providing us with these documents. It is, of course, difficult to respond now, without having those documents. We shall therefore come back to it later. However, I am left with a bitter feeling here, because youth work is imposed on many additional tasks, especially for volunteers, who are not familiar with VAT administration arrangements. We will wait and see what those documents teach us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u20	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u21	Minister, you have announced a number of measures to combat terrorism, because customs can also make a significant contribution if police powers are used to the maximum. In consultation with the administrator-general of the General Administration of Customs and Excise, you have proposed an action plan. I have a number of specific questions concerning the practical effects of this. There are many legitimate questions and concerns about the lack of resources among the customs staff themselves, even before the additional powers and tasks are added. If you impose additional tasks on employees, the necessary resources must first and foremost be available. Is it true that the armed customs officers are already on the job today without the necessary bullet protection? If so, how many copies of such clothing are still to be delivered? What is the delivery time? These are, of course, necessary things if we are to be involved in the fight against terrorism. Moreover, it appears that the striping of intervention vehicles is prohibited and that anonymous cars are not allowed to use sirens or blue flashing lights. The customs officials themselves point out that it is not obvious, of course, to stop suspicious cars in a safe manner. Will you take legislative initiatives to make this possible in the short term? Customs personnel would not currently have access to the databases containing the end-of-life persons. It seems to me that this access is necessary in order to be able to monitor effectively, first and foremost for the safety of customs officials themselves, because they can also be faced with dangerous individuals. So I hope that information doesn't add up. If that is the case, I would have liked to know from you at what time you will be able to find a solution. In the past, I have asked you a number of written questions about customs resources, including the uniforms. You replied that the delay in delivery would have been completely eliminated by November last year. Meanwhile, it appears that not everyone currently has the necessary winter clothes, which may be necessary in this season. Is that information correct? What is the status of the uniforms problem in general? Could you give us some more information on the delivery times of all the missing uniforms and workwear that customs officers are waiting for? Is it true that there is a delay in training related to the safety aspects of the job? If that's the case, how will you fix it? Finally, I heard Mr Colpin recently say that there is a need to invest permanently in modern scanning and detection equipment and that updating data analysis is important, so that customs have an optimal view of cross-border trade. I have regularly asked your predecessors and you in writing why the scanners on Linkeroever were not working again. Since my last question in September, it appears that the scanning system is already out of use. What was the problem this time? Has that been fixed by now? How will the problem be solved? If the scanning equipment doesn't work, we can't intercept certain items.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u22	Mrs Pas, as a rule, no weapon is worn without a bulletproof vest, even at customs. If an armed customs officer does not yet have an individual bulletproof vest and still has to carry out job checks, he will wear a colleague's vest. Some customs officers who have not yet been able to go to a pass session or who have not yet passed the armament course do not yet have an individual vest. At the moment, however, there is a stock of vests to cope with short-term fluctuations. Vehicles used by the surveillance teams for observation missions shall be equipped with striping, blue lights and sirens at the request of the functional chefs. The adjustments are currently being made. As far as access to databases is concerned, my colleague from the Interior and Security Committee and myself are looking at how we can change the rules as quickly as possible, so that customs can also have access to them at an appropriate time and in the appropriate circumstances. Customs officials cannot indeed carry out identity checks. The question of whether we should amend the legislation in this area is being examined. As far as uniforms are concerned, there is currently a full delivery, with orders placed at the end of 2015 being delivered in April or May. As regards training in combat or self-defense situations, I can inform you that a total of ten training days were organised in 2015, in which 66 Dutch speakers participated. Eight training days for 18 French-speaking customs officers were also organised. A total of 95 customs officers have fully followed the arms training course and 202 customs officers have almost completed their training. It is also true that a part of the braking system of the scanning installation on Antwerp-Linkeroever has been broken down. On 5 August 2015, a public contract was issued for the overall repair and upgrade of the obsolete fixed scanning systems, including the transport systems, in which the braking system is thus located. That public contract is now in the final stage, namely the submission of the file to the Treasury Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to all my questions. I understand that things are already in progress with regard to databases and identity checks. You are now discussing this with the Minister of the Interior. Can you put a deadline on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u24	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u25	I'm assuming there's some urgency behind it after all. The situation regarding the scanning installations has been a soap opera throughout all these years. I hope that this can change very quickly. We must, of course, first of all ensure that the equipment works properly before interceptions can happen. I therefore hope that these measures will be implemented as soon as possible and that the necessary resources will be provided for this. Perhaps some of the EUR 400 million extra could end up in customs because of the terrorist threat. This would certainly be more useful than paying back invoices from the Justice Department, because it does not provide better security for citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 7669 by Mr Luk Van Biesen has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u27	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the situation of the Kingdom Mortgage Conservatives is becoming difficult and even untenable. This situation is worrying in many ways. In addition to the risk inherent in the legal certainty of the acts subject to transcription, mortgage custodians face serious technical problems, linked to various software failures planned to register the acts. In particular, it is the HYPO MODERN software which is regularly rendered inaccessible for several hours. DER and STIPAD software also pose major technical difficulties that severely hamper the transcription work of the curators. At the local level, some had to contact notaries in their district to inform them. So you will have understood that these computer flaws threaten the success of the essential tasks carried out by the conservatives of the country. They also raise the question of the deadlines they cannot meet because of the lack of functional equipment. However, exceeding the time limit could result, in accordance with the law, in damages to the State. By what measures does your department intend to remedy this situation in the very short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u28	Mr President, Minister, for several years now, the FPS Finances has undergone a profound change. This requires a significant reduction in the number of agents. In order to guarantee the quality of the service and to "do better with less", according to the dedicated formula, an enhanced computerization plan of the FPS Finance services is on track. However, it must be noted that this computerisation knows its lot of errors and failures. This time, it is the software that allows the deposit of mortgages that is involved. Launched on January 1, 2015, it has significant problems. The press reported a backlog of more than 100,000 acts pending processing. What took a few weeks before now takes several months. This has an important consequence, as the legal deadline of four months to close the sales process is increasingly complicated to meet. According to the press, 226 additional agents were hired in 2015 and 2016 to remedy the problems encountered. Minister, my questions are complementary to those of Mr Laaouej. Do you recognize the problem encountered by the computer system of mortgage offices? In your opinion, what is the magnitude and cause of the problem? What steps have you taken to resolve this problem? What was the cost of this new computer system? What savings was this program expected to generate? Finally, can you communicate to us the variation of staff in the services using the new computer system between 2010 and 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the new "Modernisation of Mortgages" application was deployed, it turned out that connection problems gradually arose for some of the users. As soon as the causes were determined, a correction to the software was applied, so that it is now accessible to all mortgage retentions. In 2015, the Finance FPS also entered into an agreement with Belnet to significantly increase the capacity of its IT network as early as 2016, which will increase the level of quality of services offered for all applications and users.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u30	Mr President, I thank the Minister of Finance. As I understand it, the problem is in the process of being resolved. Minister, this refers to the reform that you are dealing with the conservation of mortgages in general. We have not really had this debate yet. This is not a thin subject because the preservation of mortgages is the legal certainty of real estate transactions, which is fundamental to the functioning of our economy. It is a bit unfortunate that we did not have the opportunity to deepen the subject. I take note of the answers provided to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u31	Minister, thank you. I can't help but note that your answer to the questions I have asked is somewhat incomplete. You did not answer the question about the cost of this computer system, about the savings that the program was expected to generate, or about staff variations. For the rest, your answer is reassuring. If I understand correctly, in your opinion, the problem is solved. We will be very attentive to the reality of the phenomena because the messages that come to us from the agents concerned are not so reassuring. I hope that 2016 will be of better quality than 2015 in this sector important for real estate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u32	Mr Dispa, let me add that with regard to staff variation, I will send you more specific data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u33	Mr President, could we also receive this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u34	Mr President, that goes without saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 7673 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u36	Mr Minister, I would like to return to a discussion that has been held a few times here in this committee. I come back to previous questions and answers that have been asked and given on this issue, in particular in line with the circular of 4 September 2014, which regulates the tax treatment of copyrights. This circular sets out, among other things, what the appropriate qualification should be when the tax authority is confronted with copyright revenues. It is stated that the classification of income is determined on the basis of the legal and factual data specific to each case. A distinction should be made, where appropriate, between the following factors. On the one hand, there is compensation for the performance of the author or artist, i.e. the income obtained in return for the pursuit of his profession. As in the past, this remuneration remains in principle taxable as a professional income. On the other hand, there is the remuneration obtained as a result of the assignment or concession of copyright, related rights or statutory and compulsory licences to a third party in respect of a literary work or a work of art. The circular also states that the administration must examine in advance whether income is derived from that concession or concession of copyright under the provisions of the 1994 Law and that the tax treatment will depend on the factual data contained in the agreement, so that not everything should be taxed as copyright income, if that is the will of the parties to the contract. Under point 12 of the circular, a number of directives will then be drawn up, to be followed by the administration. I mention this in this way because it is important what exactly is in the circular and what action it is taking with regard to the specific target group. In practice, it now appears that the BBI is not following this circular, even though you have answered my question No. 2234 that the BBI is obliged to follow this circular. I also raised this issue at the time, and you replied that you assume that this circular will be followed in detail. However, I hear from journalists who are being investigated by the BBI that this is not the case. In these cases, no specific action is taken on the circular guidelines. It is in this context that I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell me why the BBI doesn't comply with the provisions of the circular? Can you explain whether the BBI interprets the contract provisions strictly on its own initiative, so that these provisions are interpreted to the detriment of the taxpayer? If so, will you urge the administration to comply with the provisions of the circular of 4 September 2014? In its previous decisions, the Prior Decisions Service often uses stricter criteria than the new circular. It is therefore possible that an application in accordance with the circular may not be accepted by the Department of Prior Decisions. Can you tell me how you will solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u37	Mrs Smaers, the circular to which you refer and which, as you rightly point out, we have previously discussed, must be applied by all the services responsible for the establishment of income taxes, including, of course, the General Administration of the BBI. If you could give me more specific information on cases where that would not be the case, I am very much inclined to be informed, so that I may be able to ask more specific questions. The circular discusses the general principles that apply. The tax classification of copyright income must be examined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the legal and factual circumstances. There is no legal provision in common law or in tax law that sets a rate of remuneration in respect of the revenue from the assignment or concession of copyright. The provisions of the agreement between the author and his publisher must be examined separately for each case. However, the parties are free to conclude a particular agreement among themselves. Where, for a specific profession between the persons concerned, an agreement is concluded by means of a collective agreement or by any other means relating to a particular relationship between the income from the assignment or concession of copyright and other income, that agreement shall be accepted by the administration. The circular does not determine how the contractual provisions should be interpreted. The circular merely states that the contractual provisions must be examined. That's exactly what the BBI does. It is not an interpretation to the detriment of the taxpayer. In addition, a number of investigations are terminated with the result and agreement of the taxable person. Decisions of the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters shall be binding only on the applicant and any third parties involved in the application and decision and on the operation described therein. As I already replied to the oral parliamentary questions by yourself and Mr Dedecker in November 2014 in the Finance Committee, the agreement concluded by the parties is accepted by the administration, in so far as that agreement corresponds to reality. Tax law is based on that reality. In this respect, it is necessary to examine whether it is really a question of revenue from the assignment or concession of copyright. Insofar as it appears that there is a concession or concession of copyright, the possible breakdown between movable income and professional income will be made on the basis of provisions of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for suggesting that any deviations may be reported to your cabinet during the handling by the services. I will also pass that on to the taxpayers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick has converted 7679 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, in view of the way in which human rights are violated in Saudi Arabia and the way in which Saudi Arabia maintains the soil of radicalism financially in the Middle East as in Belgium, we need to re-examine our diplomatic, commercial, economic or fiscal relations with that country. There are at least four economic agreements between Belgium and Saudi Arabia: a tax treaty that falls directly within your jurisdiction, a bilateral investment agreement of 2001, the 1986 Air Transport Treaty and the 1978 Economic Cooperation Convention. Minister, what about the tax treaty? Has it been or will it be suspended? Can you specify the content? How many cases have been dealt with under this Convention over the past five years? What are the financial volumes involved? Can you tell me what tax changes Belgium is considering with regard to Saudi Arabia? What of the three other agreements cited? Can you let me know what other initiatives are envisaged to combat the financing of radicalism and terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u41	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, a law was passed in Parliament following a gap identified during the FATF evaluation of Belgium last February. This law allows for the immediate implementation of financial sanctions. The Minister of Finance may decide to freeze all or part of the assets and other financial means of the persons, entities and groupings referred to in the resolutions, for the period from the entry into force of the resolutions until the resolutions and lists of persons, entities and groupings established in accordance with the resolutions, including each amendment, are transposed into European law. Also following the FATF assessment, a working group is considering the establishment of a procedure for the freezing of assets following a request from another FATF member country. My department also collaborates within the framework of the Terrorism Financing Platform established by the National Security Council and chaired by Mr. Delepierre, President of CTIF, whose three priorities are: risk assessment of the financing of terrorism, the determination of a national policy to combat the financing of terrorism and the strengthening of the consultation and exchange of information between CTIF and other relevant services. In addition, the FPS Finance is coordinating intensively the work on the transposition into Belgian law of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. My intention is to introduce a draft bill transposing this directive as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u42	You only answered my last question. You did not answer my specific questions about the tax treaties with Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u43	An examination is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u44	I apologize, but the question was clear: what about this tax treaty with Saudi Arabia? I expected a yes or no answer. Is it still applicable or is it no longer applicable? I am surprised that you do not have any information to share with me on this subject. I can therefore only consider a certain amount of chill or slowness in acting in the head of government or in your specific head. The issue of terrorism and radicalism has been very busy with us and is likely to be a long one, unfortunately. We must be able to react with security measures, but we must also act on the financing of terrorism – this is what the FATF and the European Commission are proposing. Giving a clear signal to Saudi Arabia, rather than sending trade missions to Saudi Arabia, and suspending such agreements, would be welcome. I really regret that we are very slow to act clearly on the subject. Again, there is "double standards" in the decisions taken by the government. You could also act against terrorism, as Minister of Finance. I am particularly disappointed by your very generalist response, which postpones decisions which are essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u45	Mr President, Minister, the day after the holidays, it is wise to worry about a little dietetics! The Grouping of Independent Dieticians (GDI) asked me and drew my attention to a matter of course important to him. This is the VAT file to which they are submitted. Since June 1997, dietetics has been recognized as a full-fledged paramedical profession with curative and preventive aspects. The title of dietitian is protected as a paramedical profession. However, the benefits of dietetics are still subject to VAT, whereas they are health-care benefits. The consultations are paid with 21% VAT included. The fields of action of dietitians are constantly increasing (information, education, consultation, etc.) and the number of pathologies related to poor food hygiene is constantly increasing. Dietitians work in the front line in the management of these diseases, both curative and preventive. The GDI points out that this work to prevent pathologies related to our food mode, itself in connection with our consumer society, helps to reduce costs in the field of health. Dietetics is an ever-changing discipline that is becoming increasingly useful. In addition, along with this development, more and more new nutrition-related professions are emerging. Some of these professionals have or do not have an INAMI code and provide nutrition consultations but are not subject to VAT. This is the case, for example, for nutritionists or nutrient therapists who have received special training in Cerden. The GDI can therefore only note that independent dietitians are not the only providers of nutrition services and care. Similarly, hospitals or clinics that hire independent dietitians do not pay VAT. In the end, only dietitians in private practice are subject to VAT. It is true that since 1 April 2014, self-employed persons not exceeding EUR 15 000 of gross income per year have benefited from the franchise. The situation is therefore unfair between independent dietitians as principal and independent dietitians as complementary. As a result, conditions for both patients and dietitians are uneven. They therefore find themselves in competition which they call unfair and call for greater coherence, full transparency and uniformity, so as to avoid any discrimination. In addition, they argued that an exemption from VAT would be a clear gain for all independent dietitians. The number of self-employed dieticians in their main role could increase and there could be a reduction in the number of young unemployed dieticians, since the sum of costs is undoubtedly a brake on young dieticians who want to engage in liberal activity. Minister, how can we explain that only dietitians in private practice are subject to VAT? In view of these factors, is it possible to abolish VAT on dietary benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u46	Mr President, Mr Dispa, in principle, the benefits of independent dietitians are actually subject to VAT, unless they have the title of doctor in medicine. Other operations carried out by hospitals and clinics are specifically exempted. However, services performed by dietitians approved by the Public Health FPS are exempt from VAT if the services they provide are included in the INAMI nomenclature of health benefits. With regard to this nomenclature, only dietetic treatments provided to diabetics and patients with renal impairment and the services of dietitian educators in the education of patients with diabetes are exempt from VAT. This exemption applies regardless of the number of treatments reimbursed by INAMI. In the interests of tolerance, I accept that other dietary treatments - whether prescribed by a doctor or not - provided by recognized dietitians, which consist of the provision of personal information and advice in terms of weight loss or weight loss treatment are exempt from VAT as services of a family guidance service within the meaning of Article 44(2) of the VAT Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u47	Minister, I congratulate you on this effort. I assure you that my intention was not to put you in trouble, quite the contrary! Thank you for the guidance you give me. You're talking about tolerance. Is it within a relatively solid and secure legal framework? In any event, I have no doubt that the dietitians concerned will be attentive to your answers. It also seems to me that they could ask you again if their legal certainty seemed to them insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 7735 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kattrin Jadin's 7741 will be converted into a written question. Then we come to question No. Mr Vincent Scourneau, but he agreed that Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux's question should be answered as follows: 7878 first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, prosecutors are overburdened by the increasing number of fines for driving offences not paid by offenders. To address this problem in part, the government decided in 2012 that unpaid fines could be automatically collected through personal tax. This provision entered into force on 1 January 2013. This means that when an offender refuses to pay the fine claimed for the offence of driving, rather than being summoned to the police court, the fine is deducted from the amount that the tax officer will have to pay or, if applicable, added to the tax debt, provided that there has been no infringement of the natural person. Today, prosecutors still face a large number of cases to be dealt with, including traffic offences. A few months ago, prosecutors spoke of imposing quotas on offences that would be dealt with by prosecutors. Once these quotas were reached, the infringements that were not dealt with would be unpunished. This would lead to the spread of a sense of impunity among the population, but also a significant loss of revenue for the State, since it is millions of euros. Minister, how many fines for driving offences have been paid through personal tax since this measure came into force? How much is that? How does the Minister of Justice feel about the effectiveness of this measure? Is it as dissuasive as a fine paid directly or a court term? Can we consider extending this system to other types of unpaid fines? Which ones? Thank you for taking stock with me of this provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u50	Ms. Cassart, you're referring to a government decision made in 2012. This is undoubtedly the law on the introduction of the payment order for infringements of road traffic legislation. This legislation is generally not enforced because, and I quote Circular No. 4 of 22 February 2013 of the College of Attorneys General, "the law of 22 April 2012 should clearly be the subject of a restorative law in order to remove certain obscurities, correct certain inaccuracies or supplement some of its provisions". This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Mobility. My firm and the administration are working together. I think everyone is of the opinion that this system will indeed relieve the parquet flooring. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that we do not need this instrument to compensate for tax refunds with unpaid criminal fines. Indeed, since 2008, the tax balance can be used, in particular, for compensation with criminal fines, be it fines for driving offences, but also other criminal convictions, as well as for compensation with other non-tax recoveries on behalf of other public services. The tax balance has generated revenues that have been constantly evolving since 2008. Starting with €13,000 in 2008, non-tax debt offsets have evolved to more than $15 million in 2012, $25 million in 2013, over $37 million in 2014 and over $40 million in 2015. Although it cannot be determined precisely what the share of compensation for criminal fines is, it can be considered, however, that the majority of these revenues relate to criminal fines. The administration does not keep statistics to distinguish between the number of compensations specifically relating to criminal fines. I cannot confirm that the tax balance is dissuasive, but it is certainly effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u51	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer and for the figures given. As I understand it, you do not need the restorative legislation under the Minister of Justice and Mobility to move forward on this issue. How could this restorative law help us? The figures are telling: 13 000 euros in 2008 to reach more than 40 million euros in 2015. This is proof that the system is working and that it is defusing the floors. I am satisfied with the clarifications you provided in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u52	Minister, if I may ask you this question, it is because I am referring to section 359 of the Income Tax Code. Your administration was somewhat late last year, following the sixth reform of the State, with regard to the sending of notices-extracts. However, a provision in the Tax Code specifies – and I find this particularly indigestible – that "tax payable for a taxation year may be validly established until 30 June of the year following the year in which the vintage designates the tax year". This means that failure to meet deadlines is likely to be detrimental to your administration. Minister, have many taxpayers been at risk of receiving their snippet warning within the prescribed time frame? If so, how many? What were the losses for the state funds? I am all the more dubious on this issue because if the deadlines were not met, the damage to your administration would be to the professional discount that would have been paid. Can you confirm this provision? What about 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u53	Mr.Scourneau, I want to reassure you about the pace of enrolments for the 2015 tax year. At the end of December, 4,348,988 notices-extracts (rounded $4.35 million) were sent to taxpayers. The delay observed at the beginning of the year during the shipping period is in the process of resorption and is expected to be caught at the beginning of 2016, which is why this year. The expiry of the ordinary tax period does not necessarily lead to a refund of prepayments and prepayments. Indeed, the Income Tax Code provides for an extraordinary three-year tax period, particularly where the tax owing is greater than the tax payable in respect of taxable income and other items mentioned in the return form. Where a tax is enlisted too late, the taxpayer may require the repayment of prepayments and prepayments by way of a claim. Even in the absence of any registration of the tax, such a claim may be brought by the taxpayer. In this case, the latter may also claim the advance payment and the advance payment unduly paid through a civil action. My administration does not have the figures for the refund of prepayments and prepayments at the end of the tax period which has expired under these procedures. As in previous tax years, generic monitoring measures are in place to track the risk of statute of limitations, both within normal time frames and in extraordinary tax periods. Lists of taxpayers liable to a statute of limitations within the ordinary time limits of 30 June and within the extraordinary time limits of three years shall be made available to the taxing services and shall be monitored by the taxing agents, under the supervision of the head of service and the central services of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u54	Questions Nos 7801 and 7821 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 7894 on Mr Georges Gilkinet's excess profit rulings is referred to the plenary session on Thursday 14 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u55	Mr Minister, the speculation tax has already spilled a lot of ink before even being voted on by this House, and I fear that this is not going to stop. The press has relayed the fact that the late publication on 30 December 2015 of the law introducing a tax on speculation has forced the bank staff to pay many extra hours. Moreover, according to some experts, the taxation of listed shares may be unconstitutional. This is not the only uncertainty about this scheme since questions remain about the possibility of deducting losses in some cases. At the same time, a market player announced that he would offer Belgian taxpayers to invest via CFDs (contract for difference). By doing so, the taxpayer could avoid the tax but take significant risks. The tax would therefore have the perverse effect of pushing the investor to invest in a more risky type of product. In comparison to these CFDs, the financial market supervisor cautioned: "CFDs are speculative leveraged products that can lead to a total loss or even greater than the initial investment, regardless of the duration of the investment. Before any investment in this product, it is recommended that the investor read the prospectus and analyse whether the product is an investment appropriate to his or her financial situation. CFD investment requires that positions undertaken due to the volatility of this investment can be monitored daily or even during the day." So, Minister, have you estimated the cost of setting up the Speculation Tax for banking agencies? How do you intend to remove the uncertainties associated with the text's inaccuracies? How do you respond to the criticism of compliance with the Constitution on the taxation of listed shares? Will you amend the law to include CFDs in the list of products subject to this tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u56	Mr Dispa, I am aware of the efforts made by the financial sector to ensure the proper application of the law and to meet its obligations. As with any new legal provision, an impact assessment of the regulation has been carried out, in accordance with the legal prescriptions in this area. I fully understand that it is not technically easy for financial institutions to bring this new measure into force. However, let me point out that the broad outlines of the speculation tax have already been drawn up several months ago and have been communicated at each stage of its elaboration. Febelfin and the members of my cabinet did have a permanent consultation on the technical application of the texts. We have tried to take maximum account of the aspirations of the financial sector with a view to simplifying technical implementation as much as possible. My firm continues to monitor this case in collaboration with Febelfin. We are confident that financial institutions will make the necessary efforts to fully operationalize the speculative tax. I would then like to draw your attention to the fact that the doubts expressed by some people do not, to my knowledge, relate to the constitutional nature of the tax on speculation on publicly traded shares, but to the tax on speculation on publicly traded options. In this regard, I have instructed the FSMA and my administration to examine this issue in depth. The same applies to possible avoidance mechanisms of this tax through CFD (Contract for Difference) and other non-exchange-listed financial instruments. In addition, my strategic unit is in constant consultation with the representatives of Febelfin and the tax administration in order to guarantee without delay the correct application of the tax. If, however, it were to appear that it did not, in its present form, achieve the objectives pursued, it could certainly be envisaged to propose changes to the legislation. Such an assessment is indeed necessary with regard to all the new legal and regulatory provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u57	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. So you ordered an analysis from FSMA. It would be wise if its conclusions were communicated to the members of the Commission. In any case, this case deserves our full attention. I take note that your administration and your office are following the development of this issue, paying attention to the avoidance effects that may be feared and, finally, thinking about possible future actions to address these perverse effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u58	I think it's important what you said. We need an evaluation. Is it about avoiding that tax? Do we ultimately want to achieve the same return? We're gonna have to take a closer look at that. What is the purpose of this evaluation? Is it about budgetary returns? Is it about avoiding that tax, and thereby stimulating the CFDs? There are a lot of things that are said in the press, including from the financial point of view, where I have a few questions personally. One would almost give advice to make certain types of investments in order to avoid the tax. There's a lot going on in the market. I think we should have a thorough look at this with the committee, but it is still far too early. What time period are you thinking of for an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u59	Mr President, I do not like to pin myself on a specific period of time. As you say, Mr President, we are talking about innovation in the financial sector, as we call it by a polite term. We're in permanent contact with the FSMA about that. Indeed, it is absolutely essential that, in the very short term, we follow up almost on a daily basis on what is happening in this area and what new products and constructions are being launched. The imagination is clearly quite creative to deal with this, which we could more or less predict. It's a matter of staying focused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u60	I think that we will be discussing this in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u61	Mr Minister, pursuant to Article 19 of the Convention for the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and the Federal Republic of Germany, pensions from German sources paid by the social funds of that State to former Belgian frontier workers may be taxed in that State. This is also the case with disability pensions. In cases where the invalidity of the person who has been subject to the social security of the two countries begins in Belgium - "Belgian insured persons" - the Belgian State shall grant an advance on the possible pension which the German State could grant under its national legislation until the German decision has been taken. Because of the exchange procedures between States, this period of time is relatively long and can sometimes take a few years. During these years, the invalid is obviously taxed in Belgium on all its income, including income paid in advance. Where, on the basis of national legislation, a German pension is also granted, arrears will be paid by Germany to the Belgian INAMI, which had granted these advances. However, these arrears are also imposed in Germany on the basis of Article 19 of the Convention for the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and the Federal Republic of Germany. So there is clearly a double taxation! Minister, do you confirm this analysis of double taxation? If so, how do you plan to eliminate this double taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u62	Mr President, my colleague, your question has already been asked very briefly during the previous parliamentary term by MP Joseph George.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u64	Did Mr. George belong to the cdH group? (...): Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u65	Fortunately, former Members of Parliament are present among us. Mr de Lamotte, I invite you to take note of the answer given at the time. If you wish, I can give you a copy. Indeed, nothing has changed since then. The answer given about two years ago confirms the possible existence of double taxation. On that occasion, reference was also made to remedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u66	Minister, thank you for providing me with this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, there has recently been a disclosure of fraud with respect to the furniture discount. According to information published at the beginning of December, it would amount to some EUR 200 million. The fraudsters would have benefited from a flaw in the system of reimbursement of the household discount. It provides that investors who have investments in a country in which they do not reside may recover the pre-payment paid in that country by introducing certificates of residence and certificates proving that the pre-payment has actually been paid According to media sources that I was able to consult, extremely large sums of money would have been unduly repaid to taxpayers on the basis of false certificates. It is the department responsible for these refunds that, noting a significant increase in these refunds, would have alerted the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) and your firm. Minister, can you confirm to me the existence of this fraud? Who detected it? On what basis? When were ISI and your firm notified? What assembly had it been put in place exactly? How many taxpayers are involved? What is the amount of damage suffered by the State? Had such a misappropriation of the system ever occurred in the past? What measures are you going to implement to recover these sums and to avoid the recurrence of such fraud in the future? How long? Can the whole damage be recovered? Does it have or will it be filed with respect to the fraudsters concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u68	Mr Gilkinet, following international intelligence, the judicial police began an investigation with the competent department of the General Tax Administration on 10 November last year. My strategic cell was informed by the department concerned. As soon as the facts were reported to my administration, my administration took steps to block the pending suspicious repayments. In addition, an apostille on this subject was drafted by the King's Prosecutor on 2 December 2015. The mechanism would be to obtain a foreign beneficiary's repayment of the movable pre-payment through the use of falsified or incorrect coins. The overall impact of this fraud has not yet been determined with certainty. The extent of fraud is currently estimated at almost €296 million for reimbursements made between 2013 and 2015 for 702 claims. Some of the requested refunds have yet to be examined. An analysis of the current procedure for processing claims has been initiated. Of course, the ISI is collaborating on this analysis. The Department will request access to the judicial file and will consider, if necessary, filing a civil claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u69	Minister, I take note of this confirmation. The amounts are even higher than the amounts I stated. Three hundred million euros of fraud between 2013 and 2015 for 702 applicants is very serious! There is one piece missing in the device you announced and the reaction implemented by the administration: the political reaction and the fact that Belgium is a civil party in this case, as in others in the matter of tax evasion. It seems to me important to continue to the end the organizers of this type of fraud to give a signal. For almost a year now, you have been in charge of the fight against tax fraud. We have discussed it regularly. You have to show your willingness to act to the end, including at the level of justice, in these kinds of cases that are to be followed very closely, since they cost public finances very much but also undermine citizens' confidence in our tax system and therefore in the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u70	Question No 8005 by Mr Eric Massin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u71	Mr. Chair, to go back to the reply to the previous question, as the minister said nothing had changed, was there any way that things would change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u72	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u73	Can you imagine doing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u75	Minister, the tax administration sent a notice of tax correction to Electrabel, covering almost 500 million euros in the context of the file opened at the end of 2013, beginning 2014 by the ISI. This investigation by ISI was initiated following a report by CREG which stated that, during 2012, the GDF SUEZ Group had overbilled the gas sold to its Belgian subsidiary Electrabel for an amount of EUR 500 million. This overbilling had a double cost to the community as it resulted in a loss which not only significantly reduced its taxable profit by the Belgian State, but also deprived the Belgian municipalities of the share of the benefit to which they were entitled. Minister, what is the status of the ISI's 2012 review of this matter? Does ISl have a similar report for 2013? Are there suspicious internal transfer prices in 2013 between Electrabel and GDF Suez? If so, what amount does the possible investigation carry out and when does the ISI intend to close this investigation with the sending of an amending notice to Electrabel? In addition, are there any other gas operators suspected of using this overbilling technique? If so, could you give us more information about this? On which operators and on what amounts could these suspicions of overbilling be raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u76	Mr de Lamotte, unfortunately, I have to give you a rather short answer because the information you are asking me concerns the specific tax situation of a taxpayer. In view of Article 337 on professional secrecy, I am not in a position to answer your question in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u77	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u78	To date, I am not aware of such cases. I can find out more in detail about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u80	Minister, I would like to remind you that Benoît Dispa spoke during the current affairs last week. I had already tabled this question last year. I would like to return with you to these elements. On 21 October, I asked your colleague Mr Tommelein about the obligation for certain companies or associations to set up a cash register and what action the government was going to take on the opinion of the Council of State of Monday, 19 October. The latter considered the link between the 10% threshold and the regularity of the provision of meals in a horeca establishment unconstitutional. Pending the royal decree of 11 December, which you know, not all my questions have been answered. My questions are pending and I would like to ask you about the precise content of this new order. The fight against undeclared work must of course remain a priority, but the measures must not paralyse the horeca sector or the small non-profit organisations which find themselves obliged to follow this legislation as well. Some small sports clubs, for example, which do not use black workers but mainly volunteers, are concerned about this new obligation. The cafeterias of sports clubs and cultural centres may also be punished. On the other hand, it seems that traders are beginning to think about alternatives to circumvent regulation. Indeed, food trucks are multiplying. There are already more than 240 in Belgium according to the Belgian Food Truck Association. These vehicles offer artisanal urban gastronomy to take away: coffees, fries, small dishes, etc. Their operators are not obliged to equip themselves with a white box. Finally, some operators have not yet purchased a white box because the required characteristics were not always accurate. They did not know which system to buy, knowing that prices may vary, with a factor of 4 or 5. Mr Minister, you mentioned the statistics in the previous reply to my colleague Dispa. As of October, 21,203 farms were registered, but only 7,000 had a cash register. Do you have more recent statistics? How many operators still have to equip themselves today? Have any specific measures been put in place for small ASBLs in order not to sanction the voluntary sector? Has an analysis of the food truck phenomenon been carried out? Are any measures taken to prevent this system from being an alternative to the cash register and from damaging the fight against work in the dark? Does the Royal Decree as it is now take account of these specificities? Have the required characteristics been specified to allow operators to put themselves in order?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u81	Mr de Lamotte, today there are exactly 21,717 horeca establishments already registered, out of about 25,000 expected. This is the most recent situation available. As regards the voluntary sector, a new decision is currently being drafted. As for the food trucks phenomenon, you're absolutely right, it's something very complicated. The administration is in the process of conducting an in-depth analysis so that the most appropriate conclusions can be drawn. For the rest, we are in the process of establishing the royal decrees. I hope they will be ready as soon as possible, at the latest in a few weeks. As Mr Dispa pointed out in the plenary last week, this will help to rule out the flow of uncertainty. They will be ready and available within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think I am quite complete with Mr. Benoît Dispa's questions. Mine are mainly oriented towards the voluntary sector. New decisions are being developed. You didn't give any ideas or indicate where you're going. I am very attentive to this, as well as to the food trucks that are multiplying. I will also wait for the royal decrees being drafted. Mr. Dispa will resume the torch on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u83	Mr President, Minister, my question is in particular about an ISDS procedure that was launched against Belgium by a Chinese investor who brought a €2.8 billion clearing decision but, fortunately, Belgium finally won because the investor relied on a treaty signed in 2009 for facts of 2008. Mr Minister, has this procedure had a cost to Belgium? If so, what is it? What administrative department has been mobilised on this case? Of course, I draw attention to the danger that such clauses may contain, in particular, in the context of several agreements that are currently under negotiation: either the one with Canada (CETA) or the United States (TTIP).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u84	Mr President, dear colleague, as you said, Belgium was brought before the World Bank arbitral tribunal in November 2012 by Ping An following the nationalisation and resale by the Belgian State of Bank Fortis to BNP Paribas in 2009. This dispute was followed by the general administration of the Treasury in collaboration with two law firms specialized in this field, namely the Belgian firm Liedekerke and the American firm Foley Hoag LLP. As regards the costs of the arbitral tribunal, the Belgian State paid twice $150,000 in advance, the first time in 2013 and the second in 2014. Of this advance, $150,103 was reimbursed in October 2015. In so doing, a total of $149,897 was paid to the arbitral tribunal. In the case of lawyers' fees and fees, the total amount paid is EUR 3 555 000, of which EUR 153 000 is for fees and disbursements. The proceedings before the arbitral tribunal ended on 30 April 2015 with a favourable decision for the Belgian State, the court having declared itself incompetent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u85	Minister, I thank you for these elements of the response that support me in the idea that we should pay particular attention to the treaties that we will potentially ratify in the coming months and years. Indeed, the proceedings before these arbitration tribunals are very likely to multiply and the costs associated with them are still impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u86	Mr. Minister, due to depart within 8 minutes, it may be possible to put the questions on agenda items 31 to 33 quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u87	Mr Minister, I think you see right away what I want to talk about, namely the hundreds of secret and suspicious transactions that would have been made between Luxembourg and Belgian SMEs. They are said to have been dismantled in part by the Belgian tax authorities. The Belgian Finance Inspectorate is currently conducting an investigation into this matter. Mr Minister, it would appear that 5 to 15 million euros have already been demanded from certain Belgian companies. Can you give me any information on the number of Belgian companies involved in these questionable tax transactions? What amounts are at stake? Can you give us more information on the status of investigations? Do you intend to have contact with your Luxembourg counterpart in this regard? If this scenario is confirmed, this example is the perfect illustration that it is high time for Luxembourg to become more transparent. Do you therefore intend to bring this point within the Eurogroup?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u88	Mr Crusnière, although it is obvious that the tax authorities, and in particular the ISI, are dealing with this type of file to which you and the press are referring, I can only note that the elements put forward are a little too vague to be able to identify the case in question. With regard to the second set of your questions, you know that I attach the utmost importance to international coordination in the fight against tax fraud. Indeed, it is only by exchanging crucial information in a timely manner that tax administrations will be able to dismantle fraudulent structures. As soon as the first press articles on the LuxLeaks case were published at the end of 2014, I immediately contacted my Luxembourg colleague in order to facilitate the spontaneous exchange of advance rulings between our two countries. I also expressly confirm my intention to continue on this international path, so not only with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In implementing the anti-fraud plan I launched two months ago, the Administration is responsible for making full use of all regulatory instruments promoting international cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u89	Mr President, Minister, the press tells us that KBC will repay the public aid received following the 2008 crisis before the end of 2015, five years earlier than expected. Obviously the amount is EUR 3 billion. Minister, what are you going to do with this amount? Will you, for example, allocate it to the reduction of the public debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u90	Mr Laaouej, if I had authority, I would gladly do so! But as you probably know, KBC's repayment of €3 billion is for the benefit of the Flemish Region. It cannot therefore be affected by the federal government to reduce the federal public debt. The Flemish government will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u91	Mr President, Minister, we have received a letter from the FPS Finances at the city level, which announced to the majority of them – as is the case with mine – a significant decrease in the amount of revenue for 2015. It is justified in particular by a delay in the recruitment of the tax year Minister, can you compare the amount of municipal additions affected in 2015 and 2016 against the amount received in 2014? Can you do the same exercise but by distinguishing the Walloon Region, the Brussels-Capital Region and the Flemish Region? Can you give us an explanation of these developments and any differences between the regions? Do the revenue forecasts provided by your administration accurately reflect the information available at those times? Do you commit to stop artificially delaying the pace of recruitment in 2016 and to instruct your administration to go as fast as it can?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u92	The questions are attached, but the Minister wishes to respond to each question separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u93	Mr Mathot, I fully understand your concern about municipal taxation. Indeed, in recent years, large variations have emerged both in the rate of recruitment and in the mix of earnings recruited during the period from July to October of a given year, for various reasons. The amounts enrolled during the above-mentioned period have determined, since the 2007 tax year, the success or failure of our initial estimates in this area. In this regard, I confirm that it is not at all the methodology of the estimates that should be called into question. The method in question has been developed since the early 2000s and has already proved its worth. It goes without saying that variations in the pace of the recruitment process are indeed unpredictable one year in advance. This is why new estimates are made and sent to the municipalities. A mini-budget conclave per municipality may be possible for these. In terms of the disparity between the three regions of the country, be aware that there has been a delay in recruitment. This delay is due to the programme which was to be adapted to the arrangements made by the Sixth State Reform. The tax administration was obliged to take the files directly ready for recruitment. It appears that there were more Dutch-speaking files than French-speaking ones in this situation, hence the above differences. They will be removed, both for the Walloon Region and for the Brussels-Capital Region, at the end of December, therefore for the end of the year. It is clear that a delay of two months leads to losses which are not always evenly distributed among the three Regions. It should be noted that the introduction of a budget in SEC terms, at the level of cities and municipalities, could already solve many of the annual problems faced by most of them. From this perspective, I would like to point out that the municipalities have already been alerted to problems since 11 August 2015. At my request, the administration sent a letter explaining the problems to each municipality. It stipulated that, for municipalities and cities where the initial estimates exceeded the October 2015 re-estimate, an advance would be granted for the difference between the two forecasts. In order to overcome the problem of variations in the pace of recruitment, I have already announced a system of advances, which will be implemented in the course of 2016. The aim is to find a solution in order to stabilize the process of enrolment, and therefore, for this purpose, to grant cities and municipalities annual amounts corresponding to their respective fiscal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u94	Minister, we have received the letter that explains the problems and indicates that we have to look at a global set. She said that, as we were going to have a lot more jobs, we were going to get those moneys back. You're talking about a budget conclave per commune.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u95	That's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u96	I make budget conclaves every three months. But as long as I don't have the right figures, I can make all the budgets I want, I don't know what figures I'm based on! I want to meet whoever you want, but I need the numbers. This is the problem of delayed recruitment. You also said that the amounts were different because there are more files in Flanders than in Wallonia. Does that mean that there is more delay in Flanders than in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u97	From year to year, it varies. Sometimes it's the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u98	Can I have the answer to allow me to analyze it? [[Sentiment]] If I understand correctly, you want to make an advance to the communes. Thank you. This will ensure that there are no cash flow problems. Nevertheless, the budgetary problem remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u99	Mr Calvo, you can now briefly ask your question about your green concern about Mechelen's local finances. Mr. Gilkinet, you live in...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u100	Sit down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u101	He's the chairman of the city council. It is not just the concern of the Greens, it is a concern of many ships and mayors. I have read that the Minister may also have local political ambitions. Perhaps soon it will be your concern. It is a problem that transcends my present and perhaps your future city. It's something that a lot of local governments face. It concerns in particular the impact of the tax shift on local finances and revenues. In the collections I see a series of setbacks for the cities and municipalities. It concerns the impact of the benefits measures, the impact of corporate tax on intercommunals and the impact of the reform on police and fire brigades. It's gonna be a lot that way. On 16 December, your administration sent a letter to all cities and municipalities. I have been able to look at such writings for a number of municipalities. That immediately gave me the impression that the impact is quite considerable. I'll come to my questions. What is your reaction to this concern? Is that what you're gonna do? Is it not an option to examine certain compensatory measures? I am thinking, for example, of a reduction in the burden on the contractual staff of local authorities, a problem on which your party chairman once wrote a letter to a government in which he still has a firm point of view. Can you give a concrete assessment of the impact? Can you provide a summary table of the impact per municipality? That assessment has been made. You do not have to transfer them orally for all the municipalities, but it would be interesting to receive them in writing. In particular, it is an invitation to pay more attention to local authorities in decision-making and to examine certain compensatory measures. The local authorities are often laboratories, places where there is a lot of investment and at least places where there are great needs in many domains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u102	Mr Minister, the communes are decidedly misled by the federal authority. Prior to the tax shift, there were delays and tax revenue loss announcements at the PPI. According to the letter sent at the end of 2015 by the SPF Finances, with the tax shift, it is about 10% of the tax revenues of the municipalities that will be affected and that will prevent the municipalities from playing their primary role in terms of solidarity, education, collective facilities but also as economic actors by concluding agreements with local entrepreneurs. Minister, I would have liked to have a synoptic picture of all the impacts of the common tax shift per municipality. Since your services have sent it to each municipality, it is available information. There is an expectation that the municipalities and their representative federations will have a dialogue with the federal authority to see what compensatory measures can be taken against this loss of revenue, which will have a significant impact if it is not compensated. What are you going to do now to correct this situation? It is too easy to make reforms and make them pay by others!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u103	Mr Gilkinet, can I answer in Dutch?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u104	Sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u105	The table to which you refer has already been filed at the Registry of the House. It is therefore available with all the details by municipality. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u106	I'm afraid not, but I can get it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u107	She exists. She's been sent to all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u108	She was dropped at the Registry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u110	She was sent to all the municipalities 14 days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u111	I can have them delivered to Mechelen. The whole of the impact is as follows. Until 2021, our calculations show that the Flemish municipalities will receive 193 million euros, 94 million euros for the Walloon region and 23 million euros for the Brussels region. That is the effect of the tax shift in itself, without taking into account payback effects or positive side effects. After all, I do not think that the tax shift should be seen separately from all the measures taken by the government. Mr Calvo and Mr Gilkinet, we will probably continue to disagree on some of these measures for a long time to come. The impact of these measures, which have been taken by the government, on municipalities or on local authorities, must nevertheless be subject to a degree of objectivity. In so far as there are positive employment effects and effects on economic activity, they also generate revenue effects for the municipalities through municipal taxation, which are not included in the amounts I have just mentioned. I would also like to point out two measures taken by the federal government in recent months, which clearly have an impact on local authorities. First and foremost, there is the index jump, which also has an impact on staff costs for the municipalities. In addition, there is a case which is often overlooked, but which, in my opinion, has an important financial impact on the municipalities, especially on pension costs. As a result of government intervention, patronage pension contributions fall from 41.5 % permanently to 40%. This is also an important contribution to the local financial situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u112	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I will also look at the table with great pleasure, because that is a little more efficient than collecting those different letters. These letters come spontaneously to the Members of Parliament, because there is a great deal of concern among local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u113	For the record, I share that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u114	Nor is it the first measure to be taken. If mayors, ships or council members cannot achieve that reduction of charges themselves, if they have to remove sports facilities or if they cannot carry out cultural investment or social investment because of the federal tax shift, that is quite sad. You understand. I would encourage you to examine compensatory measures, as I suggested earlier. They also enjoy support for the very deep ground, not an insignificant political player in this country. In this way one can also give some oxygen to our local authorities, not only because of the needs that exist, but also because a euro invested at local level has a payback effect that is often much more direct than that of the federal tax shift. A more global reflection on local authorities may also take place here in the coming months. It should not just be the Flemish Parliament that deals with local authorities. I would also assume that the ships and the mayors in this House are knocking a little harder on the table, seeing that the impact on the Flemish municipalities alone is EUR 193 million. Then I wonder what's the point of all these cumulatives if they're not there at those moments to ask the questions with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u115	Colleagues often defend the fact that they combine the office of deputy and ewevin - which we are challenging - to be attentive to the interests of local communities. We see, measure by measure, under the previous government – it is not the responsibility of this minister and the current government – and under this government, that measures are taken to the detriment of the local authority with consequences later on on employment, services, contracts with economic operators, local taxation. This is not a good calculation. We protested against the tax shift bet. For several reasons: it is not funded, its effects are uncertain and it carries costs that are carried over to other actors. You are again demonstrating this because it is the municipalities that will have to pay. We will analyse in detail the table that you provided to the Registry of this Parliament. This is one of the other undesirable effects of tax shift, postponing costs to local authorities and to all those who depend on it. This is a new signal that shows that your tax shift is missed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic302x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rita Gantois' 8073 lapses as she is not present. We shall begin the next sitting with Question No 5, by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 8089 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter.
