ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, the attacks in Istanbul, Magnanville and Orlando, which have already claimed many lives, not only fill us with deep sadness, but also with a great sense of disgust and disapproval. Let me talk first about the attack last Sunday in Orlando. The Chamber condemns this horrible act, the biggest shooting by a single shooter in the history of the United States. This act of terror and hatred, linked to jihadism, specifically targeting the homosexual and transgender community of the United States, affects not only the American people but all citizens regardless of race and nationality, just like other people killed for their faith, sexual orientation or beliefs around the world. By the way, this massacre also highlights, alas again, the problem of the sale of handguns and assault rifles in the United States. This horrific attack revives the violence that homosexual or transgender people still face in many countries either physically or morally. We must remain vigilant when it comes to safeguarding the values and freedoms which form the very basis of our democracy. It is the duty of all democrats to give priority to dialogue, empathy and respect for difference, all differences. This act of terrorism is a new attack on each of us and a direct attack on the fundamental values of tolerance, equality and dignity. But terrorists will never succeed in dividing us. We will not yield to fear or fall prey to Islamophobia, and we will not turn against each other. I sent a letter to the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives expressing, on behalf of our Assembly, our compassion for the families of the victims. I also asked him to convey our full support to the American authorities and people in this terrible ordeal. We must also deplore the attack on two police officers at their home in Magnanville, Yvelines, on Monday, 13 June, and the car bomb attack on two police buses on Tuesday, 7 June, in a historic neighbourhood in Istanbul, killing 12 people. May I ask you to observe a minute of silence in memory of the countless victims of these attacks? But first, I will pass the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u3	Mr President, once again so many lives have been destroyed by blind terrorism in Orlando, in Magnanville and in Istanbul. We too have lost 32 people to terrorism. We feel more than ever for the victims. Our commitment remains solid. We must and will continue to fight these crimes with determination. We have been struck by the harsh and barbaric terror, but we will not give in to fear or hatred. We have heard with horror that 49 people were shot in Orlando on Sunday. A fanatical killer slaughtered young people cold-blooded, especially young people who were having fun in a nightclub and who were murdered for their lust for life. Again, as in Paris, it is our way of life that is being attacked, but it is no coincidence that the attack also took place in a nightclub where most of the Holebi. Fanatics who are inspired by the ideology of ISIS have taken Holebishops as their targets. We defend tolerance and respect for everyone, which is also one's sexual preference. Everyone is free to love whom he or she wants. Love is love. Colleagues, for us, human life is a precious value. After the terrifying attacks in Paris, terrorism once again hit our French neighbours. The attacks on Charlie Hebdo and the Hyper Cacher were aimed at assaulting our freedom of expression and the Jewish community in particular. Terrorists also target women and men who provide daily security in Istanbul or France. For example, a couple who worked for the police services were cowardly murdered and left a three-year-old orphan child; murdered because they worked for the police. I mean our gratitude and our unwavering support to all those who are mobilized for our security in France, Belgium or in all democratic states. Ensuring security, fostering harmony, respect and tolerance is our duty. Our thoughts go to all the relatives and friends of the victims. Of course, we are also thinking of the people who survived these traumatic attacks. They will now have to live with this heavy burden. On behalf of the Belgian government and people, I have conveyed our faithful friendship and our deepest condolences to the President of the United States, Mr. Barack Obama and to the French President, Mr. François Hollande. We are going to fight the fanaticism and the sowers of death tirelessly. And we will continue to bear universal values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Paul Van Grembergen, former Flemish minister and group chairman of the People's Union in the Flemish Parliament, in the Senate and in our assembly, died at home in Evergem on 4 June 2016. Paul Van Grembergen, born on 18 September 1937 in Eksaarde, district municipality of Lokeren, began a career as a teacher of history and social legislation in the education of the state and in the provincial education of East Flanders after his studies. After secondary school, he first thought of a priestly vocation, but eventually his life will be marked by a different calling, that of politics. Paul Van Grembergen's political career was based on the classic post-war politician's program: he was elected to the provincial council of eastern Flanders in 1968 and for the first time became a member of the House of Representatives six years later, in 1974. He sat in our assembly until the 1985 elections. After a two-year interlude as a provincial senator from Eastern Flanders, Paul Van Grembergen returned to the House from 1987 to 1995, when he joined the Flemish Parliament, whose members were then elected directly for the first time. Meanwhile, he was also able to boast of a rich local political career. After the municipal elections of 2000, the crown came: he became mayor of Evergem, a mandate he would exercise until 2006. For Paul Van Grembergen, municipal politics was not secondary. He has continued to believe throughout his career in the role that municipalities could play as a local and small-scale political connection "to the measure of man," as he himself described it. Paul Van Grembergen's parliamentary career spans three decades, from 1974 to his farewell to the Flemish Parliament in 2004. During his national political career, Paul Van Grembergen remained a member of parliament. In 2001 he was given the opportunity to become a Flemish minister, but his real dream was to once be Flemish parliamentarians president. Because, as he said, in parliament the heart of democracy beats. He himself saw himself as a Member of Parliament who preferred to talk about chapters rather than commas. In our Assembly, his parliamentary work has not been limited to the essential classics of Volksunia: institutional reforms and Community issues. It belonged to the first generation of Members who, in the mid-1970s, took an interest in environmental protection. In the early 1980s, several years before the adoption of the law of 4 July 1989, he fought for the limitation and control of election expenses. From 2001 to 2004, it was the crowning of his political career: he was Flemish regional minister, first of internal affairs and, from 2002, also in charge of culture. This last skill, above all, went like a glove. Passionate about history, literature and poetry since his earliest years, he has continued to believe, as Flemish Minister of Culture, in the ancient precept of "culture as an instrument of social emancipation". Paul Van Grembergen was always praised in his political life as a reconciler and a bridge builder, locally, in parliament and also in his party, the People's Union, where he was counted as the progressive wing. He never put away his regrets about the break-up within his party. After the split of the People's Union in 2001, he chose Spirit. He ended his political career to his own satisfaction as a citizen of Evergem. After the end of his national political career, Paul Van Grembergen remained involved in Flemish cultural life, including as a member of the board of directors of the Flemish-Dutch house deBuren in Brussels and as chairman of the General-Dutch Confederation, the association for Dutch-Flemish cooperation in The Hague. Paul Van Grembergen was a member of the "Bibliology" of a political family this time. After all, his twin brother was also city council member for the Volksunie and his children followed his footsteps in the city council and the East Flemish provincial council. In the name of our assembly, I have expressed our deepest condolences to his family, who greet you in our gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the family, the government joins you in paying a final tribute to the former Flemish regional minister and former member of the House, Paul Van Grembergen. Paul Van Grembergen was elected MP for the first time in 1974. It's the beginning of a long political career. He is an excellent orator and will be the leader of the People's Union. Van Grembergen is mostly profiling himself on institutional issues, his party's stick horse, but he also shows a great interest in environmental issues. In 1985, he was elected to the Flemish Parliament, a parliament he had a warm heart for. After a long career as a Member of Parliament, he became Minister of the Interior and Culture. Far from the big hemisphere, he was also a politician with a strong local commitment, especially in his municipality of Evergem, where he became mayor in 2000. I would like to pay tribute on behalf of the government to our late colleague. We wish his family much courage and support during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the late colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u8	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2016, I propose: On the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the draft law (Mr Willy Demeyer and Mr Éric Thiébaut, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Emir Kir and Mr Daniel Senesael) aimed at strengthening the district police and making the district work more attractive, Nos 1548/1 to 3. - following the submission of an amendment to the bill (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) amending the laws of the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, with a view to the publication of the opinions of the legislative section, No. 682/1, return the bill to the Home Affairs, General Affairs and Public Service Commission to discuss it. The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2016, I propose: - to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (MM. Willy Demeyer and Éric Thiébaut, Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Messrs. Emir Kir and Daniel Senesael) aimed at strengthening community policing and making neighbourhood work more attractive, Nos. 1548/1 to 3. - following the tabling of an amendment to the bill (MM. Stefaan Van Hecke and Gilles Vanden Burre) amending the Acts on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973, with a view to the publication of the opinions of the Section of Legislation, No. 682/1, to refer the draft law to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service in order to allow the examination of this amendment. Discussion of the bill will begin in plenary this afternoon, after consideration of the amendment in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has already shown in 2004 its willingness to move forward on this beautiful issue of the tax on financial transactions, or Tobin tax. European partners had to be found to do so. We are now coming to the end of these negotiations. Belgium, as I recall, was a pioneer with the Tobin tax, which is one of the most solidarity-based taxes on the world, since it is a question of taxing speculation, which has only profit borders, in order to increase development aid in the countries that are the victims of speculators. We are concerned about Belgium's attitude in this area. At the hearings in the House that we asked for on the subject, a representative of the European Commission admitted that Belgium's attitude had changed, that the willingness to move forward was no longer as clear, and that requests for exceptions were too numerous and unfounded, which meant that the tax on its substance was being emptied. One can therefore wonder whether Belgium is not busy torpedoing negotiations on this Tobin tax. Prime Minister, when I ask you about this, you always repeat to me that you are in favour of the TTF, and you refer me to the government agreement, which is unclear in this regard. Are you sure this is the position your Minister of Finance stands for? In front of British companies, he said: "There is still work to convince my friends in the Belgian government that the best way is to leave the negotiating table, but it is on the right track". So, Prime Minister, is this on track? My question is simple. What mandate are you going to give him for this final negotiating meeting? Prove to us, Prime Minister, that you are a progressive, and that you are not whispering in the ear of bankers, as your Finance Minister did this week again, by questioning the speculation tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u10	Prime Minister, to say that we want a tax on financial transactions and to do everything we can to ensure that it does not happen, or even sabotage it, is either schizophrenia or hypocrisy. In any case, it is a serious illness, which your Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt. While our country had taken the lead in 2004 by voting a law for the Tobin tax - even if its implementation was conditioned by a European agreement, Mr Reynders - today we are behind the peloton. As precursors, we became the red lantern. Of course, that does not satisfy us. Based on the government agreement and on far too strict conditions, Ecofin after Ecofin, the finance minister dismays the few Europeans who are in favour of this tax on financial transactions and shows a very bad face for Belgium. However, on the one hand, Mr Reynders, it is necessary to curb speculation and, on the other hand, to make the income of capital contribute to the budgetary effort to which all our fellow citizens are subjected. This is the double objective of a tax on financial transactions. In short, Prime Minister, we need to save the tax on financial transactions. That's what I'm asking you, as head of government. Could you take this matter back to the Minister of Finance and represent us yourself at Ecofin to defend this tax, which your party voted in this Parliament? To say, week after week, that this government is social and progressive, and to do nothing, is contradictory. Set an example! Take action! Take action, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, for several years, about ten countries have been negotiating this tax on financial transactions, known as the Tobin tax. Tomorrow, in Luxembourg, there will be a meeting that could almost be called the "last chance meeting". Belgium was one of the precursor countries. I can see Mr Reynders smiling. This tax on financial transactions helps to combat speculation and would yield an estimated €34 billion for the euro area. It's a double profit. Belgium's position today is problematic, as we have moved from being a precursor to being a saboteur. The other day, NGOs and trade unions took action before the parliament. They buried Robin des Bois to denounce Belgium's position. I give you a reading of what an Oxfam-Solidarity official said: "Instead of leaving the negotiating group, Belgium remains there and tries to sabotage it from the inside". It is therefore a sabotage on the part of the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, who, every week, comes with new pseudo-technical arguments that are so many alibis to bury and sabotage this tax. In his statements, which the press relayed, he openly said that he wanted to smear her. Prime Minister, I have two questions. First, is it the Minister of Finance's policy or the government's policy? Otherwise, knowing that Minister Van Overtvedt is the minister of speculation, for he has already buried practically the tax on speculation, knowing that he wants to make Brussels the financial place a bit in the effigy of the City of London, etc., is that the position of the government or that of the minister? Mr. Is Van Overtveld the minister of speculation or is the Michel government as a whole the government of speculation? Secondly, in order to address a specific aspect of the issue, should pension funds, for example, be allowed to speculate by exempting them from the tax on financial transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u12	Prime Minister, as everyone knows, financial products are traded on the stock market for a great deal of money. It is, therefore, from a sense of justice that Parliament asked many years ago that there should be a small fair contribution of 0.01 % of GDP, which is 1 euro out of 10 000 euros. That's the so-called tobin tax. Not only has Parliament asked for this, but fortunately the tobin tax has also been explicitly included in the coalition agreement; it is written in black and white. You, too, were personally a great advocate, especially in your former capacity as Minister of Development Cooperation. What do we now read in the official reports of the latest negotiations at European level and also in press releases? Belgium's position raises questions and Belgium does not act constructively. I quote your Minister of Finance: "I still need to convince some friends in the government to leave the negotiations.' That's gonna make our pants go down. He also says in a particular speech: "I am against." Mr Prime Minister, we have really had it with this ass-wipe, not to use the word "flipflopper". CD&V is a very strong supporter of the tobin tax, as it contributes to increased tax equity. I would therefore ask you very explicitly, Prime Minister, what position will be taken. Will you continue constructively to advocate the tobin tax at European level? Will Belgium continue negotiations constructively and not sabotage them? Will it be a yes or a no for the tobin tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u13	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, what can be said better than what the CD&V has just said? I hope that the colleagues of the majority will agree. I was serious, Mr. Deseyn, don't worry. I fully agree with you. Prime Minister, an agreement in principle has been reached between ten European countries. It was last December. It was also agreed that at ECOFIN in June – and it is tomorrow! – a decision would be taken at the level of the modalities. Since then, some colleagues have recalled statements by the Minister of Finance who said that he wanted to leave the negotiations on the tax on financial transactions at a meeting with British companies here in Brussels. Someone would want to squander and torpedo the negotiations that he would not otherwise do! You have a finance minister who has become the best ally of the City of London. You have a finance minister who has become the pilot fish to torpedo the negotiations even as today about ten European countries whose Germany and France want to move forward! Prime Minister, ECOFIN is taking place tomorrow. What will be the position of this government? Will he continue to pretend and continue to sabotage all negotiations? Will your Minister of Finance commit, yes or no, tomorrow, on behalf of your government, to advancing and reaching a strong and clear decision on the tax on financial transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the outset to join this spectacular concert of praise to Minister Reynders. [[Applause]] Yes, you can applause him. It will please him. Don't hesitate, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u16	It's since he met Raùl... More seriously, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond very directly, since an inquiry has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u17	That is very clear. What are the facts? What's the situation? What's the chronology? We are members of a group of countries that want to play a leading role in terms of transaction taxes. However, I would still like to allow myself to correct some errors, malices or misinterpretations that have been committed in the head of one or the other member of the opposition. What are the facts? In December 2015, Belgium, together with other countries in the framework of enhanced cooperation, supported a number of principles in order to implement the financial transaction tax. It was agreed that the European Commission should make more operational proposals, which it has not yet been able to do. It was also agreed that the various modalities of the tax in question would be used in the coming months to continue to be clarified. Contrary to what has been said, tomorrow's Ecofin meeting is not decision-making. It is a meeting in which preparatory technical groups must continue to make progress and resolve the various problems that arise. I am going to be specific about this because I want this Parliament to be fully informed. What are the facts and where is there a serious difficulty? I think everyone will agree that there may be an effect on interest rates. To be very precise, I will be a little technical, please excuse me. When derivatives in the secondary market, futures and swaps are connected to debt, and the impact is significant for countries with high debt, this can lead to a significant additional burden in terms of debt repayment. It is the Debt Agency, not the government, that draws our attention to this issue. Is this the only Belgian government? Not at all! Several members of the group who are working on this issue want to make progress, but consider that they need to find a solution to prevent this tax on financial transactions from having the foolish, ridiculous and unwanted effect of anyone here to increase the burden of debt and thus to put the states in trouble, even though it is precisely the opposite objective that is being sought. Therefore, yes, the government agreement is clear, as is the mandate given to the minister, which Kern confirmed yesterday. Yes to the tax on financial transactions, yes to negotiations for a solution! I am delighted to have managed to convince you that you were misinformed and influenced by false rumours. There is no doubt, there is no ambiguity, we want a transaction tax at European level, but we certainly do not want any negative effects on our real economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You talked about the debt burden. Let me tell you that in committee, the representative of the European Commission said that Belgium's requests for exceptions were unfounded, that the FTT would have no negative impact on the real economy, on the contrary, or on public debt, that the countries that have already introduced such a tax have not seen their volume of transactions decrease. Prime Minister, with this dossier, you have, in my view, an opportunity to show us that you are a convinced European, that you believe in the European project. Indeed, so far, in some cases, you have not convinced us on this point. Today, you have the opportunity to prove to us that we have been wrong. It is also an opportunity for you to prove to us that you remain insensitive to financial lobbies and that, for once, you really want real taxation on capital and that taxation on speculation is possible under this government. Finally, it is an opportunity for you to demonstrate to us – it is probably here, for you, the most important aspect – that you are the true Prime Minister of this government and that you are not in the pay of the N-VA. Put your government in order, Prime Minister, ask the Minister of Finance to step back and make him defend the TTF! This is true of your credibility at both Belgian and European and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, your yes is a goal, a yes, but. It's not a yes, we can, it's, in fact, a no, we can't. We won't be able to do it. You're saying I'm misinformed. But the entire European press points Belgium's responsibility to the issue. Next Le Monde, a dispatch from the AFP, Belgium torpedoes the European Tobin tax project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u21	You and I are giving us a power that unfortunately we do not have, Prime Minister. All the pretexts are good not to move forward. You say that you are in favour of it, while drawing our attention to the effects that will result from this tax. Assume your "no"! Be correct! Be transparent rather than lying to us! It is hypocrisy to say that you would like to do so, but that is not possible. That's good to say. It's better to do it. In any case, this would be an extraordinary opportunity for your government to let us know that you are not being led by financial markets, to rebalance the effort to return to balance, to create margins for social, economic and environmental projects. That's where we're waiting for you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u22	Prime Minister, you proudly say "Yes for the Tobin tax" but we have a Finance Minister who says "No for the Tobin tax". The difference is that he will be there tomorrow to defend Belgium's position. I think he has at least the merit of a certain frankness, which we can't find in your house. Proposing technical arguments against the Tobin tax is one way to bury it, to sabotage it. So, somewhere, you're doing the work together with the Minister of Finance. The government statement was already moving in that direction. Is it surprising what the Prime Minister's position is when we know you're coming back from the Bilderberg Group, where you were with a series of great financiers, bankers? Only two prime ministers humbled themselves to act as the towel holder of the great capital at this Bilderberg meeting. Among these different bankers who are members of the Bilderberg Board of Directors are Thomas Leysen, president of KBC Group. We wonder if he didn't take you in his suitcases! I am sure that you spoke in part with Mr Leysen and, in my opinion, he is not a supporter of the Tobin tax. Should we then be surprised at the hypocritical position you are expressing today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, at least you're on the same page. That is not only the line of the MR or CD&V, but also the line of the coalition agreement. Together we have committed ourselves to achieving a tobin tax, a contribution of 0.01 % out of capital. This afternoon you actually said that the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, should again become a minister, a servant of the public interest, and not a person at the service of the happy few or of the 1% most wealthy. (Consistent opposition ovation) Thank you all for your enthusiasm. Thank you all. But do you mind if I finish my reply? Prime Minister, when your government has exactly got a European team on the field to work on the tobin tax and when something goes wrong with one of those players, the coach is, of course, being looked at. The arguments you have raised about pension funds, which are outside, have long been refuted. The Austrian Presidency has done a wonderful job. We must appreciate the efforts of all our fellow European Members, and we must not be the last relentless voice in that debate. Thank you for your commitment in this matter. (Luid applaus)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a standing ovation! I can already tell you that the N-VA is furious. But it's funny because, dear colleagues from the N-VA, you're not as angry when one of your ministers comes out of the government agreement. You're not as angry when you have a finance minister sweeping the Tobin tax with a back end. Prime Minister, this is not the first time you have tried to get your Finance Minister's comments back. Remember, last January, the Minister of Finance had visited the Stock Exchange and he had said the same thing about the Tobin tax. Already at that time, you had to try everything to pretend the opposite. The Tobin tax is a thousandth on shares, a ten thousandth on derivatives. What does this mean for Belgium? Between 600 million and 1.6 billion a year. This would allow you to finance what you lack for the tax shift rather than go and pick it up in the pockets of citizens by increasing taxes and VAT. This also represents opportunities to increase the competitiveness of businesses and reduce labour costs rather than defending the City's interests. Prime Minister, we will see in the next few days. You are determined to raise the pension age. You are determined to increase taxes and VAT. I expect you to be determined about this Tobin tax as well. We will see if your position today was the real position of the government or if it was simply communication and a frontal position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u25	Mr President, Minister, access to water is, as you know, a vital need that is recognized by the United Nations. Yet, Israel once again allowed itself provocation by arbitrarily depriving the Palestinian population. By acting in this way, which is more so when it is between 30 and 50 °C, not only again Israel takes hostage families and children, but also again violates international law. By this heinous act, the Israeli authorities are once again failing to comply with their international obligations – the United Nations setting the minimum required rate of 7.5 litres per day per person. Therefore, Mr Minister, my group would like to ask you to intervene urgently in order to remind the Israeli authorities of the respect for their international obligations and to ensure that the heinous blackmail exercised from a vital need is stopped immediately. I'll ask you two questions, minister. Have you contacted our embassy and consulate on site? Have you received additional information about this event? Have you had bilateral contacts with the Israeli Government to tell them that you strongly condemn this new act of aggression and recommend that it comply with its international obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, all contacts have been made. The international press confirms a decrease in pressure and in the quantity of water delivered in some villages, where the climate is such that it causes very serious problems in these circumstances. However, so far there have been no formal statements from the Palestinian authorities. It is therefore very difficult to confirm that what you are referring to is a deliberate act of cut off access to water. Contacts have been made between Israeli and Palestinian supply services. I hope the situation is going to be in order. On the other hand, regardless of the demand for information on the ground, we have obviously reminded the Israeli authorities of their obligations under international law not only to provide food, but of course also to give access to water, especially in occupied territories – that is the least of all. The United Nations also intervened in this regard. In any case, I repeat, without an official statement from the Palestinian authorities, it is very difficult to confirm your conclusions regarding a deliberate act of water cut-off. What has been confirmed to us so far are problems of pressure and quantity that we are trying to resolve on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for these points of answer. I think that the time for observation is far exceeded. We really need to be part of a much stronger action today. Israeli provocations have lasted too long. We must condemn this decision and try to put pressure on this Israeli government to put an end to these incessant breaches of international law. We are not going to cling forever to a European positioning, or wait to receive confirmation of an act that we know is deliberate and arbitrary. As we discuss perpetually, including a rather soft resolution by the majority, we find ourselves in a situation where the peace process is at a standstill. Thousands of Palestinians do not have access to water today, while, I would remind you, it does between 30 and 50 °C on the spot. The water is taken over by the Israeli authorities. In this context, the peace process has no chance. It is urgent, Mr Minister, that our government end its delay, and that Belgium finally take all the space it can take to put an end to this occupation which has been going on for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u28	Minister, at first there was a nice citizen's project. Brusselsers were picnicting in front of the Stock Exchange and the surrounding area, asking for a city centre free of cars, a more breathable city centre. And then, a mayor arrived and, alone in his corner, created what he called "the greatest pedestrian in Europe". In fact, it has simply closed streets, it has not started any concrete redevelopment with your help and this has been done without consultation or communication with stakeholders such as residents, traders, STIB or the Region for example. The result is the fiasco that everyone here must see: it is the Berezina! [[Applause]] The mayor of Brussels did not understand that the Brusselsers and the Brusselsers did not need the greatest pedestrian in Europe, as he calls it, but the best thought and therefore the most concerted pedestrian in the world. Today, the mayor of Brussels is isolated, weakened, discredited, outdated. It became an easy prey. For who? Well, for you! You have conditioned the allocation of the Beliris 20 million budget on the return of the cars to the city centre of Brussels. You thus weaken the pedestrian project, you trample on the values of the initial citizen project. [[Applause]] Hence, minister, my three questions. Beliris, who is the owner of the pedestrian, received the permits granted in April by the Brussels Region. Why haven't you launched since the invitations to tender? Do you maintain the €20 million budget for this pedestrian? And finally, can you tell me how you envisage the amputation of this pedestrian?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u29	Mr Hellings, a pedestrian in a city centre seems to me to be an excellent project for citizens, as well as for traders. Secondly, it seems to me that you have lost sight of the fact that, since the launch of the pedestrian boat, other events have unfortunately affected the economic situation in Brussels: of course, the closure of a number of tunnels, but, more heavily, the attacks on 13 November in Paris and 22 March in Brussels. In this context - I thought it was the tradition of your political formation, but I have the feeling that you have somewhat abandoned it - I personally wished, like the mayor, to meet with the traders and to examine whether the start of the pedestrian boat was taking place under conditions which also allow to maintain a correct economic activity in the centre of Brussels. It is true that I attach great importance to the development of trade in good conditions in the heart of the capital. What have we done? The federal government, contrary to what you say, has made concrete calls for tenders. We have decided on the whole schedule of the pedestrian work, but we will do so in phases. I will have the opportunity earlier to explain, with the mayor and the Region, how we will progress in phases. Why? Because, in order to implement a pedestrian in good conditions, it is important that we proceed, phase by phase, to the necessary facilities, so that the pedestrian is no longer a boulevard where children are asked to eat on the ground, where the cars run the rest of the week. On the contrary, we want it to become a place for children, pedestrians and customers. We are therefore going to start this work now that the traffic allowing access to shops has been redefined, and that the phasing of pedestrians in the centre of Brussels has also been redefined. In collaboration with the City of Brussels, the Brussels Region and the federal government - it is rare enough to stress this - we will implement, in a positive way for the inhabitants, the pedestrians but also for the traders who make the heart of Brussels live, this pedestrian, to which I understood that you were so attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u30	I confirm, Mr Minister, that the Ecolo-Groen Group is very attached to the pedestrian. You say, one year after the opening of this so-called pedestrian, that you are presenting, together with the mayor of Brussels, a phased plan. A year later! How do you want traders to be happy and citizens to take ownership of this project if, a year after closing the streets, a phase project is only presented? Well, it's better late than never! You're defending the shops in appearance. How will delaying the start of the work help the traders? Start them! You could have started them a lot sooner! Finally, go see Bordeaux! I don't know who you're going to support in the upcoming French presidential election, but in my opinion, not the mayor of Bordeaux! This city is equipped with a wide pedestrian plan, which has allowed the emergence of a real living space dedicated to pedestrians, residents and allowing the creation of shops. Stop the bargains! You're not the pedestrian's savior, Mr. Reynders, you're the vampire!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u31	Mr President, Minister, if we are talking about a failed state, Libya is certainly an example of this. Years have been sought and a diplomatic process has taken place to establish a unitary government. Important steps have been taken in this process, because there is now a unitary government in Libya. I can only hope that all the partners in that unitary government will show an appropriate government loyalty. Against that background, you will meet your fellow minister from that government. We know that Libya has been a problem area for years. At the same time, we know that there is an important potential refugee route between Libya and Europe. This year, up to May, 190 000 people have already used this route, while 21 000 were in the first quarter of last year. The difference is huge. Mrs Mogherini pointed out that there were potentially 500 000 refugees on that route. The deal with Turkey has, on that side, already had some sort of anti-drinking effect, if I may say so. This is also extremely important from a humanitarian point of view. However, a shift in the route would be another major step backwards both for humanitarian reasons and for reasons of protecting the European external borders. That is why I am asking you the following questions. What opportunities do you see in the discussions with the Foreign Minister of the new Libyan Government to address this issue? What offer can we make with regard to Libya, which, in my view, expects and could use a great deal of support from Europe? Conversely, to what extent can Libya enter into a partnership with us in order to avoid another humanitarian disaster in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u32	Mr President, Mr De Roover, first of all I would like to say that my colleague from Libya was appointed in February 2016, so it really is a minister who is only in office in a new government, the Libyan government of national unity, a GNA. That government has received the support of a number of partners in Libya, but not yet from the Tobroek Parliament. European and Belgian support must therefore first and foremost be political support, so that the new government can strengthen its legitimacy. In the next few weeks or months, the Tobroek Parliament may also be able to recognise that government. Secondly, without waiting for that recognition, we must continue with other forms of support for that government. As far as migration is concerned, the European Union has already said that it must be possible to help control external borders, at sea. It is very important for the new government in Libya to get real support from the European Union in this regard. There are several operations in the Mediterranean, there is Operation Sophia. Now, however, we need to work more and more on the coast of Libya, in cooperation with the Libyan authorities. Thirdly, a real new state must be established in Libya. We are also prepared to have a real discussion with the new government on the possibilities of genuine support for the new organisation of the security service in Libya, but also on the new organisation of all state services. We have also been in touch on this issue. I will have a discussion with my colleague in the afternoon, and so will Federica Mogherini and Commissioner Avramopoulos. This will include not only a new partnership with Libya to better manage migration, but also a partnership with Libya to have a new state. You said it, there hasn't been a real state in Libya for a few years. I am going to try to see what my colleague's questions are, what are the questions of the new Libyan government. On a bilateral level, but also through the European Union, we are prepared to give real support to the new government in various areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the current successes in the fight against IS in Libya indicate the importance of the step that has been taken. This offers huge opportunities. It goes without saying that, on the one hand, the refugee problem and, on the other hand, the reconstruction of Libya is one and the same theme, with many interfaces. I would urge you, from our government, to exploit all the possibilities to make it clear that we can be partners in this and that we can offer each other a great deal of benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u34	Mr President, Minister, since yesterday we have seen the results of the referendum on port workers. We know that between 45% and 46% took part. Is that representative? I think so, but I can't comment on that. What is more important is that between 85% and 90% said they support the three proposals you have put forward on the reform of port labour laws. Firstly, port workers agree that multitasking, a multitasking system, should be possible. This means that a straddle carrier driver can also occasionally tub or shave. Secondly, the port workers of Ghent are allowed to work in Antwerp and vice versa. Thirdly, people from outside the pool can also be employed in our ports in the foreseeable future. That's not self-evident. This is a courageous decision by our dock workers, who have indicated that they want to continue the tradition of social peace, which has been nurtured in our ports for decades. I think that they are in stark contrast to some of the other sectors of employment in this country, not to mention some of the Walloon labour sectors. If I hear another bad word from the banks behind me about lesson dockers anverois, I will intervene personally and send the real dockers anverois to them, because they are people who accept their social responsibility. Mr Minister, my question is what happens next. You have made it clear that Europe would support this compromise. I also heard you say in a previous legislative period in another dossier that Europe was behind you and that there were compromises, but they turned out not to have been achieved afterwards. How strong are you in Europe? Will Europe follow your compromise? How are we going to proceed legally? What legal steps will we take to transpose the outcome of this referendum into collective agreements, royal decisions and possibly into laws?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u35	Minister, in a referendum the dock workers approved your texts on the reform of the Major Act by a large majority. This may have led to the last hurdle to a final agreement. That is important, because in this way we will be able to avert a condemnation by Europe. That's an achievement in itself. Of course, there are a number of questions left today. During the negotiation process, there were doubts about the informal deals between the large container companies and the trade union in order to continue using the existing pool: would Europe not consider this to be a cartel? More importantly, logistics port workers should no longer be recognised, but should be given a safety certificate in place. The name will change, but will anything change in practice? That's the question. According to this agreement, they remain part of the renewed Major and the codex. The boundaries of the port area thus remain a barrier for the logistics sector and e-commerce. Mr Minister, the ports we have, and especially the port of Antwerp, are of course a huge asset. We must therefore do everything in our power to continue to play that asset to the fullest, for thriving sectors in which we can create many jobs. The purpose of this government, remember? Jobs, jobs, jobs! At the moment, our neighbouring countries are still going to do those jobs. Six times more workers work in e-commerce and logistics in Rotterdam. We're gonna miss billions, we're gonna miss jobs. Minister, we must use the momentum we have now created to do something about this too. Firstly, how sure are you of your piece on the European part? Will the conviction be definitively averted from this agreement? Secondly, what are your concrete plans and what is the timetable for solving the ongoing problem of e-commerce and logistics in the port?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Belgium threatened to be condemned and failed because the Major Act, even in its application, was not in conformity with European legislation. In the first instance, this government and I took up the task of ensuring that the notice of default and the conviction could be averted. Secondly, we have chosen to find a solution through social dialogue. I have to tell you, all the social partners in the sector have met 29 times, discreetly, persistently and in difficult circumstances. They are the first to deserve all the congratulations for reaching a preliminary agreement. By the way, il faut le faire, all port workers were able to respond personally by means of a referendum. The result, as Mr Penris has said, is that more than 85% said they wanted to support this preliminary agreement. That's pretty unique. I believe that this dossier is a good example of how to reach an agreement through social dialogue for many other dossiers. As far as the follow-up is concerned, we have always given the European Commission and the Commissioner responsible every step of the way. The Commission has also been given the action plan and given it its blessing. She said: well, you have time to resolve this through social consultation, but I do need to get butter on the fish, I need to see these collective agreements and those royal decisions. I believe that we are now in the last straight line. The next step is to make it clear to Europe and to the Commissioner that we have carried out everything as agreed, and that the European Commission is deciding to put an end to the letter of formal notice. I won't sell the bear's skin until he's shot. There is still one major obstacle: Europe must stop the formal notice. A maintenance is planned for the month of July. I hope that we will be able to take further steps in this direction. We have done everything we can to inform Europe transparently. Europe has said: if you do so, we will stop the default. Again, for us will be the proof of the pudding in the eating. Mr Klaps, you are right, this is not the only problem we have to solve. There are also legitimate questions from logistics. We must also ensure that e-commerce and job creation are put on the ground here. I have already committed myself to tackling the other problems when this problem is solved. I hope to do so in the same way, with results. You will be able to expect me to work with the same perseverance on the other concerns of logistics, so that important steps can be taken towards the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u37	Minister, after hearing Mr Klaps, I have become a little concerned. I'm closer to you than he is. I'll take him to the bar and I hope he survives there. In all seriousness, I asked you how it would proceed legally. I believe that we can arrange the story of multitasking, the multitasking system, through the collective agreement and the codex, which gives little or no problems. I also assume that we will be able to arrange the exchange of port labour, from Ghent to Zeebrugge or Antwerp, by royal decision. However, Minister, I fear that we will not be able to achieve the third part of your referendum, which will have a huge impact on the existing law on port work, by means of a royal decision. I am therefore counting on you to come to this Chamber with a sound legislative proposal, also supported by the opinion of the Council of State, so that we can express our views on this in full objectivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My group is a loyal government partner. We are not going to tackle the issue with our feet and make all kinds of statements in order to get applause from Mr Penris or other members of the opposition, which is not why we are here. We have always said that we must avoid a conviction. That's step one. However, that should be absolutely only step 1 in the process. If the agreement is merely to avoid a condemnation, then we have not yet implemented the coalition agreement, which states that we are going to modernise the Major Act. An agreement that does not change anything for logistics is, in other words, not an end point, but should be a starting point. I therefore call on you to use the momentum we have now created to take further steps and to come to Parliament as soon as possible with texts to solve the problem of logistics and e-commerce. Minister, I have already told you in the past: loading and unloading of ships is not port labour, logistics and e-commerce. The port of Antwerp needs more than the agreement we have today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u39	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgians woke up yesterday morning and this morning again, I must say, with a sense of confusion, a sense of apprehension and a sense of doubt about the information provided to them. Indeed, according to a note sent by the counter-terrorism unit to all the police in the country, combatants who had left Syria were reportedly on the way to Europe, and in particular Belgium and France, to carry out attacks there, with three targets: a shopping centre, a fast-food restaurant and a police target. You stated that you were not specifically informed but that you were taking all measures accordingly. How, Minister, can you take all measures accordingly when you yourself say that you are not specifically informed? OCAM has decided to keep the entire territory at alert level 3, even though the police are still at level 2+. There is a certain aberration to keep the police at such a level while it is the target mentioned in the note; as we know, it is a real target especially in the light of French events. OCAM also asks police officers to remove from their Facebook profile a number of personal data that could identify them more easily. Minister, how can you respond to this inconsistency in the level of alert of the 2+ police stations even though the entire territory is at level 3? How are you going to protect those on the front line, to defend them against this threat? We're announcing an influx of turnarounds. What special arrangements have you made with regard to these returns? In addition, do you, as in France, also have returns that contact the security services to "negotiate" their return?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u40	Minister, on 22 March there were attacks in our country. We've been almost three months. In the meantime, a committee of inquiry has been set up to examine in particular whether we could have avoided the attacks of 22 March. It is not because this research is ongoing that we should not continue to guarantee security today, because the world is not standing still. I am thinking of what is happening in Turkey, of the attacks in Orlando, of the attacks on a police officer and his family in France. I certainly do not want to do panic-mongering, Minister, but the situation is very serious. I read that there are again tips in our country about a possible threat that I cannot estimate. I would therefore ask you to take any proposal that can strengthen our security very seriously. After March 22, everyone agreed that a single police zone was needed. Our police officers are doing the best they can today. A single police zone would allow them to work even more efficiently. Let me give you an example. You were in New York last week, a city with 10 million inhabitants that counts one police zone. You've been able to determine that for yourself. Brussels, a city with 1 million inhabitants, has six police zones. Your colleague and group leader from the N-VA in Brussels, Mr Johan Van den Driessche, also said that the unification of the police area is an essential condition for serious progress on security. I was therefore very surprised, Minister, to hear you say at the beginning of this week that you are burying the proposal immediately. Honestly, I'm even more surprised by your explanation in that regard. It is not the case that you are making a better proposal, quite the contrary. It is sufficient for you that one party in this majority says that it does not want to cooperate because it is not in the coalition agreement. That is enough for you to stop talking about the proposal. Our Prime Minister states in the international press that he wants to enter into the debate on the unification of police zones without taboos. Minister, a Brussels police officer cannot intervene today in a police zone 400 metres away, when we all know how important it is for our security that he can. I have only one question: when do you think the situation is serious enough to be able to enter into the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u41	Minister, there have been reports in the press that have caused concern. Indeed, leaked messages and police notes show that terrorist fighters would leave for Europe. Some targets would be highlighted, such as police commissaries, places where the holebi community meets or places where there are screens on the occasion of the European football championship. All this, of course, creates a climate of fear, which I can understand, because we live under threat level 3, so evaluated by the OCAD, and that is to be taken seriously. However, I believe that the press has exaggerated a little bit. The situation naturally leads to certain reactions, among others from policemen. Some police people ask to raise the threat level around the commissioners from 3 to 4, others ask to be allowed to take their service weapon home and others urge to speed up the deployment of auxiliary agents. Minister, what is your position on all these reactions? Should there be a heightened vigilance? Has the threat increased effectively? What is your message to the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the climate in which we have been living for a year and a half has forced this government to take strong steps, as never before, to strengthen the resources available to our police and intelligence services. Unfortunately, this does not remove the risks to which barbarians from abroad, and perhaps already on Belgian soil, want to expose us. There was Orlando. There was the cowardly assault of two police officers near Paris. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're starting to get a little too many minutes of silence. It is to others that we should be able to impose this silence! For the past two days, reports of terrorist commandos from Syria have been disseminated, among others, on the Internet. Yesterday, the OCAM declared that we could maintain Level 3, which is certainly high, and not raise it to 4. However, measures that I would call legitimate precaution are taken since in police areas, police officers can go home with their handguns. These same police areas must be able to count on the reinforcement of the reserve that you are constantly seeking to strengthen. In this regard, it is imperative to ensure solidarity within police zones and between police zones and the federal police. I know you're paying attention to this balance. Minister, what information can you give us about these rumours of terrorist commandos towards the European Union and our country? We're talking about a note, where does it come from? What is the degree of credibility? What are the guidelines given to police services - local and federal police - in response to potential new threats? Are there security safeguards that have been strengthened over the last eight days, in addition to maintaining the level of alert at 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions go in different directions. So I will try to answer it as best I can. The information relayed in the press yesterday is information that services receive every day. Every day! Every day there are rumors, intentions. Services are provided with elements that refer to a certain threat. The OCAM then analyses them and decides whether to take this information seriously. Do any other evidence confirm this? Is the source of the information valid? Based on this analysis, the OCAM determines the level of threat. Therefore, the elements that were taken up yesterday in the press were also analysed, as must be done. After analysis and hearing from all the support services, the OCAM decided not to increase the level of the threat. But the current level of threat is 3! It's a serious level! The threat is likely and taken seriously. But this is not Level 4, very serious level defining an imminent threat. We get information like this all the time. I can also tell you that in all European countries facing the phenomenon of foreign fighters, rumours have been circulating for weeks and months, because IS is under pressure in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon and they would be on their way home. Of course, the security of the state is keeping an eye on that. To date, we have no indication that these rumours are true, but the rumours are there. The phenomenon is being monitored by our security services and the security services of our neighbour and partner countries. Mrs Kitir, as far as your question on the single police zone is concerned, I am also in favour of more unified police zones in our country. We now have 189 zones. When the legislature started, there were 196. We gotta get that down. We need to work with bigger police zones. You don't have to convince me of that. Nor do you need to convince me that the Brussels Region, which is an urban whole, must eventually reach a single police area. I said, however, you know that, as your party has had government experience for decades, everyone must be convinced of it to get support for it. I did not say that we will stop working on the single police area, but that the four parties of the government and hopefully others will have to find an agreement on this. We're working on that. You really don't have to convince me of the usefulness of a single police zone. As far as the service weapon for the police is concerned, it's not about anything new. That's not new. Since the dismantling of the cell in Verviers, when there was a threat against the police, we have told the police chiefs that, given the circumstances, they may allow their people to bring home their service weapon. With regard to the arming of police officers, a royal decree was drawn up, after consultation with all the partners. From now on, we can close the discussion and finally give the police officers the opportunity to be armed after they have completed their training. It is obvious that they will not carry a weapon without authorization. I was also asked what message I have for the people. It is always the same message: we live with a threat level 3, which is serious, but if we allow ourselves to be frightened and panicked, we are in the process of implementing the terrorist agenda. I call on the people to be attentive, to implement the directives of the security services to the letter, but please let us not help the terrorists, let us not ensure that we carry out their agenda, let us not let fear and panic take over us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u44	Minister, you absolutely did not answer the question as to why the level 2+ police stations had not been re-assembled to level 3, while the OCAM specifically requested specific measures, particularly on its Facebook profile. I like to hear rumors, as I heard from your mouth and others before. It's still a little light in relation to the gravity of things. If you say that you must not live in fear, for my part, I think that the speech "wood tongue" and "circle, there is nothing to see" that you have held today in relation to a series of measures is precisely what creates fear among the population. This is the lack of transparency and a sense of protection available to the public! It's not about creating psychosis. It is precisely a matter of reassuring the population. The way you responded, saying that you were not specifically informed and that you did not know exactly what it was about, is very light in relation to the seriousness of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer. I am very glad that I do not have to convince you and that you, too, are clearly in favour of a single police area. We should not convince each other; it is important that you, as Minister, convince your government partners. We have to do it. What good is it that we agree with each other? I would prefer to start the debate tomorrow. Mr Bonte has already prepared a legislative proposal on the basis of which we can start the debate so that we can quickly arrive at a single police area. You are right, Minister, fear and panic are the worst advisors, but the best guarantee of security is the proper functioning of the police. I hope you will use your persuasive power to help your government partners cross the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the situation, which is indeed serious, is being closely and closely monitored. We must have confidence in our institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u48	Mrs. Kitir, allow me to replicate. I didn't interrupt you either. Your behavior is disturbing. Minister, I also note that you are working on a royal decision on the arms of policemen, which is thoroughly consulted and supported by all partners. I believe that this will indeed be a very quick way of achieving results and we will give it our full cooperation. I fully endorse your message that we should not be panicking and keeping our calm. In this context, we must all set an example. We can all keep our calm and something in me says that even our good colleague, Mr Deseyn, can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u49	Minister, contrary to what Mrs Matz has said, you seem to me to be a well-informed minister. I'm glad. I know you're informed. I know you're aware of the need to strengthen the police system. I know you're paying attention. You're going to have to be at this new concern that is to understand why police officers are in level 2+ while the rest of the country is in level 3. I think you will have an appropriate answer, just as you now have an appropriate response to the concern of the police officers, since I am pleased to hear you comment on the forthcoming deposit of an order in line with the proposal that our group has tabled to allow police officers to benefit from the same weapons as the inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the press in the north of the country, specifically Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen, published yesterday, suggested that you would be threatening police areas that would not provide sufficient capacity, notably through what is known as the HyCap jargon, the hypothecated capacity, to support the federal police during certain major events, including demonstrations of strikes or counter-terrorism operations. Let me remind you that at the outset, it is the federal police that logically comes to support the local police. If we had not scattered and maintained this dispersal of the general reserve, including federal police intervention platoons in support of local police areas, we would not have, today, repeated requests to local police to come in support of the federal police. In addition, telling police areas, at a time when your government has reduced the resources to police areas and refuses to review the KUL standard, which is totally inadequate in terms of funding the police areas – a standard that has been established on the basis of completely outdated demographic data today – which cannot recruit, due to lack of budgetary means, because they are not properly funded, that they will be penalized if they do not provide the desired capacity, would be an expression of a sneaky will on the part of your government to undermine the solidarity between police areas and the federal police. Perhaps you are looking for things to evolve in such a way that the federal police become an evanescent police force and that the entire workload rests on the local police areas. Minister, do you or do you not confirm this intention? If so, on what objective basis? On the basis of what criteria? Above all, do you intend to restore justice in the financing of police areas in advance, restore the endowments to which they are entitled and change the funding law, in particular to review the KUL standard? By the way, this would benefit all the communal entities that have experienced strong population growth in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u51	Mr President, Minister, on the so-called HyCap system and the possible fines, there has been some commotion in the police zones, in the police chiefs and especially in the police officers on the workplace, because many policemen are on their gums. In fact, these policemen would like nothing more than to show solidarity with their neighbors and corps who need extra support. However, we know the threat of terrorism, the refugee crisis and the problem of transmigration. Many corps therefore absolutely need their police personnel. It is important that we have an eye for that. Police areas want to cooperate, but several areas, such as the border areas, have to deal with a great deal of crime. I am thinking, for example, of West Flanders, but also of the area of Mr Terwingen in Limburg. Those areas are already running out of police personnel. If they still have to use the HyCap system to help police people, it is difficult. Some of the police zones in West Flanders have informed me that they have already deployed 80% of the effort they normally have to make in a full year. So they have already shown solidarity. I think there are limits to that solidarity system. You have set up a working group to examine the points of pain. In my view, you have also understood that the HyCap system, the solidarity mechanism, is no longer working today. So, Minister, I would like to ask you about timing. When will this working group bring out results? Perhaps you can tell us now whether some problem has already emerged and explain it. If you were to take the federal donations from some corps, would that also apply to the police areas that are already struggling? What will you possibly do with the resources released from the donations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u52	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said: terror threats, strikes, border controls and all kinds of festivities this summer are putting enormous pressure on our policemen. It is true, Minister, that special times require special efforts. I said this to you in April 2016 in a similar question. Unfortunately, however, these special times are increasingly becoming the normal situation in this country. So there is certainly a need for solidarity within the police force in order to guarantee the security of all citizens everywhere. Solidarity is needed between zones, from federal to local police and in the current situation certainly also from local to federal police. It seems, however, that in practice it is difficult to maintain this effort and solidarity for a long period of time. Solidarity always means giving and taking. Today, however, it appears that certain zones faithfully deliver the agreed capacity to the federal police, but that other zones do not do so or refuse to do so. This week, Minister, you proposed financial sanctions for corps that do not make enough effort, for the benefit of corps that do fulfil their duty. We can accept your proposal. Everyone has to do their part, of course. Your proposal may be an emergency intervention, a last stick behind the door, if the dialogue fails or if you notice that too little effort has been made by these forces in the past. I am also of the opinion that perhaps you can explain later that sanctions can only be applied if the legal obligation of 2% is not met. I don't know if you'll also sanction if a zone doesn't meet the 7% that's being achieved, which is more problematic. However, Minister, what is the most important in the whole discourse of under-capacity and over-interrogation? I would like to repeat our speech very strongly, namely that we need to tackle the problem in a structural manner. The threat of terror is not gone after the football party and after the summer festivals. So the real solutions for us lie in modernisation, in the optimisation of the police force, in administrative simplification and also in a guaranteed service in prisons, for example. These are the right answers: looking for the priorities that we want to set in the coming months, the core tasks of our agents, which we have been working on for a long time now, and the things that we are better able to outsource. Mr Minister, my questions and my group's questions are as follows. Firstly, on what concrete basis and under what conditions will you impose sanctions on the local areas? Secondly, when will we finally be able to take further steps in the key tasks debate with the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u53	Mijnheer de voorzitter, beste collega's, Mr Maingain, first of all, I want to react to your insinuation that my agenda would be to reduce the effectiveness of the federal police. We're doing the opposite! The government has decided to increase the federal contingent by 1,200 police officers, in net numbers. You're talking about a decrease or an attack on the federal police, while we're doing the opposite. That is the preliminary remark! Mr Demon, to what you have just said, I would add another crisis: today the police are responsible for managing four crises. You have mentioned three, and I would add the warden crisis, which has been requiring additional efforts from our policemen and from the defence sector for some eight weeks now. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank our policemen for their efforts day and night. Any organisation facing such crises comes under pressure at some point and the capacity appears to be a problem. Mr Maingain, that is why in 1998 the legislator provided for these systems of solidarity and capacity exchange where necessary. One of the systems is HyCap. Local areas are paid for this. An amount, a percentage is provided for the financing of the local areas in order to be able to organize this HyCap system. In concrete terms, this means that the local police perform certain missions of a federal nature. What missions? It is provided for in the law and sank in the form of a binding directive issued by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. In recent weeks, I have found that this system of solidarity, which is one of the cornerstones of our integrated police force, is being called into question by some local police, when they do not honour the tasks imposed on them by law. Everyone realizes that HyCap's system can be improved. We'll work on that, too. We've put together a group of local policemen and federal policemen. I believe that Mr Demon has just referred to this. That working group needs to look at how we can improve the system of solidarity and make it more effective without putting the police zones in trouble. So we're working on a different system. Mr. Maingain, you referred to the Federal Police Reserve. You know that we are busy re-establishing it and decentralizing it to the various boroughs. This point is therefore also included in the reorganization of the police. As long as the HyCap system has not changed, the old system will of course remain in place. This old arrangement imposes solidarity if it is necessary. Moreover, the 1998 Law provides that sanctions may be imposed. I asked the General Inspectorate to look at the way the various zones respond to the solidarity required. We see great differences. That's a statement. I asked the various organisations involved to find out what resources are available to make solidarity more effective. Nothing has yet been decided in this area. The press was a little premature on that point. I simply asked the organisations responsible to look at the possible possibilities. So there is no reason to panic in that regard!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u54	You will certainly be re-examined in committee, Minister, to obtain the details of the analyses carried out by the Inspectorate General to ascertain what the imbalances between police areas would be. I have a number of comments. First, from a budgetary point of view, you say that police areas are funded to carry out federal policing missions, since this is part of their funding, but when you reduce the staffing of police areas, you reduce the availability of local police areas to participate in federal policing missions. Therefore, you will need to review the liability that you may claim for police areas due to competition from the decrease in endowments. This is the calculation that I will make in my police area and that I will impose by saying: "We are reducing our capacity all the more compared to the funding received from the federal government because there has been a decrease in endowments." Secondly, you have invoked the law a lot, but what does it say? The law stipulates that "the mobilization of local forces can only be done in an exceptional and temporary manner, provided that local missions are not compromised". This remains at the discretion of the chiefs of corps. This appreciation is sovereign and no one else can contest it, not even you. The heads of corps, whoever they are and wherever they are in the country, ensure that they give the right reasons for sometimes not responding to requests because they simply have superior local missions. With regard to the dismantling of the federal police services to which we are returning, you are announcing an increase in the number of personnel. We'll check the final result. We will check whether you have reconstituted a general reserve in Brussels as we knew it at the time when 1,200 men were available there. I'm waiting for the day you rebuild this general reserve!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u55	It is good that this working group is active. But what Mr Maingain has said is also important, namely that we should ensure that the local tasks of our zones are not compromised. The structural problems - and I believe that the problem of capacity in connection with the threat of terrorism is, unfortunately, becoming structural - must not be addressed through the HyCap system. I am glad that the working party is now active and I am waiting for its answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right when you say that efforts must be shared equally between all corpses and that in manifest unwillingness they can be punished. However, from our group I insist that there should be a structural solution. You came to the committee in January with your proposal on the core tasks. That was very good. In the meantime, it's mid-June. It is time for texts to be adopted and people in the field can really feel the change. We need to look for modern solutions to tackle the problem of undercapacity and over-searching in a structural way. Let me give you the example of the port of Antwerp, where you can save 110 policemen with one drone. This is the direction that we must all take: choose modern solutions. You will receive the support of our group. Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Optima Bank is bankrupt. The court has decided, thousands of customers have been duped, hundreds of people lose their jobs. That this can happen today, despite the efforts made by this Parliament! During the previous and current legislatures, we have taken many initiatives to strengthen supervision of banks. We've usually done this on a broad-based basis, majority and opposition together. We have succeeded, both in this Parliament and in Europe, in taking initiatives to strengthen supervision of banks. We have done this in two directions: through the National Bank as regards the granting of licences, and through the FSMA, which is the product supervisor. However, Optima Bank received a bank licence from the National Bank in 2011. However, it was a banking licence under certain conditions. Those conditions were in fact repeatedly violated from day one. For example, dividends were not allowed to be paid, but it did happen and although no subordinated loans were allowed to be repaid to the shareholders, they did. Moreover, an in-depth check by the BBI of Ghent found that a lot of money from assets from abroad was brought to this country without having passed the tax regularisation review. In other words, black money was put into accounts in Belgium at once. The National Bank and the FSMA were aware of this. Ghent's BBI had a clear file. However, the BBI had to withdraw its file, something after the somewhat unfortunate work visit, let me put it this way from the then Secretary of State for Combating Tax Fraud, Mr Crombez. A few weeks later, the file was effectively closed. We had so many signals, the regulators had so many signals, the legislation is clear, we should have acted. Minister, how on earth is it possible that this can still be experienced here eight years after the banking crisis? How on earth is it possible that we have not acted and that neither the National Bank nor the FSMA has assumed its responsibility in this matter? If that had happened, we would not have had thousands of downed customers today and, above all, we would not have had a lot of questions about the proper functioning of our financial institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I heard you say a few days ago that the National Bank has done an excellent job in Optima's file. I assume you had received signals at the time to think and say that. In the meantime, internal documents have been leaked showing that from day 1 after Optima's banking license with conditions attached to it, this has been constantly violated. Conditions were not respected and apparently they dissed lies. In other words, our supervisor has been kept on a constant leash. I haven't seen the documents, but if so, then there is definitely a problem. I think we all agree that in 2007-2008 everyone was convinced that the banks that had brought us to the brink of collapse had to be subject to very strict supervision. The supervisor's teeth were tightened at the time. The question today is whether our supervisor has used his teeth effectively. In other words, was there bitten when you had to bite? Mr Minister, my question to you is very simple. Have you requested the internal documents and are they in your possession? If so, have you been able to look them in? Can they be made available to Parliament? Of course, Parliament needs to know whether the supervisor also used the extra weapons he received a few years ago. I repeat, do you have the internal documents? If so, what do you think? Can we get those documents? In the edge a smaller demand, but important for the injured. Quid with the Guarantee Fund? Is it gonna have to be here? I have the feeling that bankruptcy will be losing, that in other words there will be too little money to pay out all creditors, staff and the injured. Do you have any idea to what extent the Guarantee Fund for those concerned will be able to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u59	Mr President, Minister, allow me to look borrowed, because if we can be upset by a bankruptcy, when it is a bank, it clearly betrays a loss of public confidence, it leads creditors into disarray and it raises a lot of questions at the level of our society. I agree with what has been pointed out by colleagues, given that in recent years we have tried to significantly strengthen the prudential supervision of banks. We are faced with a somewhat special situation. In 2011, a reform changed each other's competencies somewhat, shifting the supervisory control of the CBFA, now FSMA, to the BNB. It is also interesting to note that in April 2011, the CBFA, seized of an application for a bank licence, declared itself totally negative to this idea and that two months later, following a contract with Ethias for the purchase of its bank part, the BNB will grant this licence. Minister, we have questions about this. Like colleagues, I would like to hear from you about the guarantee fund for these depositors, who have been in doubt for 48 hours, and for these bank creditors. What will be your attitude with regard to what has been denounced, in particular by the Special Commissioner appointed by the BNB and, in recent hours, by the press, who, in some cases, is really a financial crime at the level of the organisation of accounts closures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the more we know about Optima, the worse it actually gets. At first it seemed to be an Icarus story, a story of pride, but more and more it becomes clear that it is a story of pure, ordinary self-service, self-service of the worst kind by a number of shareholders and directors. Among them is also a former minister, who declared his farewell to politics, but not to socialism. That's a strange attitude, if you ask me. Until the end, people tried to get money out of that bank, to get it out of themselves, while at the same time trying to convince governments and hospitals to trust the bank with taxpayers' money. Clearly there was no shame there at the expense of the staff and customers of that bank. How did it come to this, Minister? When Optima took over Ethias Bank, after the rescue of Ethias in 2011, CBFA first refused to grant Optima Bank a banking license, while the same CBFA was responsible for the supervision of Ethias Bank for years. A few weeks later, supervision came to the National Bank and Optima Bank gave a license, with severe conditions, conditions that were immediately violated from day one. Shareholders could invest in Optima with money they borrowed from Optima. How do we know that story? I've heard that before, at Dexia's. There was a ban on dividends and yet dividends were distributed directly and indirectly to the shareholders. Why has no action been taken in the period 2011-2014, why has no action been taken against Optima Bank's practices, against the flagrant disregard of all the National Bank's guidelines? To intervene, one had to wait until 2014. That's when everything got in a rapid state of affairs. The pressure on the bank was then increased by the supervisor and the banking activities were finally phased out. These activities began to be phased out, culminating last week in the blocking of the accounts, after it was established that shareholders-drivers were again trying to channel money out of the bank. Among other things, decisions in this area and transfers have been reversed by decisive action by the supervisor. That is a very good thing. Those responsible, including Mr Piqueur, were placed under curatel. They will be called upon and will have to pay for the loss, for the compensation of the savers. I believe that the latter is a good approach, an approach that in the past was better applied to ARCO, isn't it, Mr Deseyn? Tackling those responsible seems to me to be the basis for justice. This is indeed the basis of justice, Mr Deseyn: we are addressing those responsible. Minister, will the liquidation of Optima Bank and the handling of those responsible be sufficient to compensate customers and staff? What about the surveillance period from 2011 to now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u61	Mr Minister, five years of Optima Bank can be summarized in two terms: gray culture and far-reaching conflict of interests. I would like to say two words which I had hoped I would not have to say after the many debates in Parliament on other banking files and the banking crisis. After all, the bank was set up, while we were still cleaning up the ruins of the severe financial crisis, which is what we are still doing, with a population that has to swallow the savings. It's like since then the morals haven't changed in a few people. The timeline of the bank and its CEO speaks volumes. Everyone asks how. How can that last for five years? Why hasn't there been any intervention before? When the BBI passed on her information and raided, the supervisor was aware. I do not want to have a debate over the next few weeks on the Optima Route, which we could have tackled then. Where are the guardian's teeth, which we have strengthened in Parliament? There is such a thing as fit-and-proper regulation, which made it possible, both at European and Belgian level, by a circular from the National Bank in 2012, to test the expertise of directors in advance, but also during their period of administration, so that action can be taken, a sanction can be imposed and directors can even be dismissed. When one looks at the story of Optima Bank, one really does not need five years to see that Mr Piqueur was destroying the bank. How come he could sit and we had to go to bankruptcy at once from a story where everything could go to bankruptcy, with uncertainty for all customers? How is that possible? How can it be that the conflict of interests has been allowed to continue for so long, when we have decided here that this has to stop? How is that possible? If the FSMA finds that one of its directors will act as the CEO's attorney in question, how is it possible that the FSMA and yourself will not immediately send out a communiqué saying that something of this kind is not deontologically acceptable and that you will ask Mr Van Gerven to stop his mandate? How is that possible? How come those morals haven't gotten through, not even to the supervisor? Why? Our people are tired of hearing over and over again that decisions are being made if they are not being implemented. Our people are tired of the fact that time and time again a cesspool is being opened and that the morals are not changing. A lot of bankers from small banks who never had to be saved, but also large banks that are doing the transition now, are tired of those kinds of stories, because they undermine confidence in them all. So the question is, Minister, what will you do about it? How will you restore confidence? How will you change the morals? How will you ensure that what we have decided is implemented? What's the timeline? Give us all the documents so we can conduct the investigation ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u62	In 2011, Optima was authorised to acquire Ethias Bank, which also gave it a banking license. It has already been pointed out that the acquisition was subject to a number of conditions, including the distribution of dividends. The supervisor kept an eye on the case from the outset. Amongst other successive losses, the National Bank encouraged in early 2014 to order the cessation of banking activities. The illiquid loan portfolio was largely sold, with no large losses, and a reduction in deposit liabilities was started and the figures are now known from a small EUR 700 million to a recent EUR 90 million. Normally this settlement should have taken place up to EUR zero, no manifest irregularities had recently been detected during an inspection. The inspection led the National Bank to immediately instruct the main shareholder to repair the withdrawal of funds, which at that time had clear traces. The National Bank has immediately appointed a Commissioner to monitor further settlement and has proposed to the European Central Bank, which is, of course, the highest body in this area, to withdraw the banking licence. The FSMA, which has recognised Optima Bank as an insurance broker, also withdrew that licence after the National Bank had forwarded the file. The court in Ghent then declared bankruptcy on 15 June and a college of creditors was appointed. As a result of the blocking of the deposits of the clients, the National Bank was required by law to verify, within five working days of that blocking, whether Optima Bank was able to repay or would be able to repay the deposits within the foreseeable future. The answer to that question was negative, but it is true that the whole of the deposit guarantors are both the deposit guarantors for which the guarantee of EUR 100 000 is valid and deposit guarantors that stand out above that limit. I will come back to that in a moment. On 10 June, the Guarantee Fund took note of this decision and the payment of the deposits will be made within the statutory deadline, up to EUR 100 000 per depositor. In order to be paid out by the Guarantee Fund, Optima customers must provide the fund with an account number. So far, the Guarantee Fund has received 598 account numbers through My Minfin. 137 account numbers were delivered to the fund via forms. The payment of Optima Bank's creditors in bankruptcy will be made according to legal order. It favours, among other things, the following creditors: employees in terms of redundancy payments, then the Guarantee Fund for the recovery of payments by the Guarantee Fund and creditors in respect of the part of the eligible deposits over EUR 100 000 that has not been repaid by the Guarantee Fund. Amongst other things, as a result of the immediate blocking of deposits, there is still a large amount of assets available today, obviously with a view to repaying the privileged creditors. What can be achieved on top of that will of course depend on the settlement of the bankruptcy proceedings, for which the liquidators have now been appointed. Mrs Almaci, Mr Van Gerven is indeed chairman of the Supervisory Board of the FSMA, but that is a special body, because the Supervisory Board of the FSMA has an advisory role on regulatory issues in general. That Supervisory Board does not intervene in specific files provided by the FSMA as a regulator. I'm not saying it's not a problem, but it's a very important nuance in the whole file. After the investigation has been carried out, it will have to be established whether or not action should be taken in this area. Over the past few weeks and months, I was informed confidentially by the supervisors about the progress of the file. They played their role in that period with the necessary discretion, as it should be. With the elements I know today, I can only be convinced that this approach has prevented a greater tragedy. A good result until the finish was their goal and would also be achieved if the irregularities I have just mentioned had not been there. The monitoring of the outcome of the file and the handling by the supervisors is a Parliament's responsibility. Let there be no doubt about that. It is Parliament that will deal with this. Mr Vanvelthoven, you referred to documents, but I do not have them. I will request them and, if necessary, make them available, of course with respect for the investigation. The supervisor and I are prepared to give the greatest possible transparency to Parliament in the dossier, now and in the further handling of the whole procedure. Let there be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In your opinion, the supervisor has done everything in his power to avoid a greater drama. But is that enough? When we find in 2016 that the management of a bank has clearly exceeded a number of irregularities and the supervisory authority finds that, is it not the supervisory authority's job to intervene more quickly? You mentioned manifest irregularities, which you were only recently aware of, while we have just given a whole list of irregularities, even from before 2011. I think that we will have to have that debate at the heart of Parliament. You have explained the settlement of the bankruptcy and added that everyone will be refunded. Everyone will be repaid. That is clear, but the question is whether this will happen with taxpayers' money. Surely it is not possible for taxpayers to pay for such irregularities? I would ask you to do everything in your power not only to supervise the bankruptcy proceedings but, above all, to prosecute those who have committed irregularities legally. One must look to the man who has made mistakes and who has started to walk with the money of third parties, so that our taxpayers' money does not have to serve to correct the mistakes of another.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which explains this, but not everything, I think. You indicate that in recent months you have been informed confidentially by the National Bank about the state of affairs at Optima and you conclude that the supervisor has done his job. I am surprised that internal documents were leaked in the press a few days ago, which clearly shows that the conditions imposed on Optima by the National Bank were not respected from day 1. I conclude from that that whole document has not been handed over to you either. There's been an internal investigation, starting at day one. That wasn't handed over to you. You say that you have been informed about the state of affairs in the last few months and that you have the impression that everything has gone well. Something's not right. Either the National Bank didn't fully inform you, and then I understand your statement that you thought everything was okay. The National Bank should have informed you correctly. Either she has fully informed you and you have misjudged the case. In any case, I take your word that you will request the documents and deliver them to Parliament, so that we can examine in all transparency what has gone wrong, who has gone wrong and whether the supervisor has exercised adequate supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u65	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence. I have, of course, confidence in your authority and I imagine that regulators will put all the energy needed to move forward and make this case clear. Nevertheless, I hear your optimism about the repayment of all creditors. The rules are known. There are privileged creditors, unsecured creditors and all of these people who are now entitled to a refund. However, I am a little less optimistic about the conclusion that everyone will have to. It's not guaranteed yet. My group and I are outraged if it appears that everything that has been denounced in recent days and in recent hours in the press is revealed. We are outraged by the actions of different people responsible for managing this bank and we hope that these people will pay so as not to profit again from the taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u66	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. At the same time, you reassured the privileged creditors by stating that their damage will be compensated. That is a good thing, which can strengthen their confidence. However, there are still a lot of questions about supervision, especially in the period 2011-2014. I would therefore like to accept your offer of greater transparency on this matter with both hands. I would also like to ask the chairman of the Finance Committee, who is present here, to organise a hearing as soon as possible, on which the supervisors can give text and explanations. They are the first ones we need to address in order to find out what is good about the whole story.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I would like to make two points. Firstly, I would like to thank you for making the relevant documents available and for creating transparency. Secondly, however, I am tired of having to come here every time to talk about the past and then look at what went wrong. Mr Van Biesen, Parliament has long decided that our supervisors should be given instruments. They have also been given them to intervene quickly and in time. I did not receive an answer today to my question as to why they did not intervene. Minister, we have long decided here that deontology needs to be strengthened. I hear a technical explanation from you explaining why it is not formally a problem that the lawyer of Mr Piqueur, CEO of Optima, who will be prosecuted, still has a position within the FSMA. However, I would like to hear from you, as Minister of Finance, that you cannot do this deontologically. However, that is not what I hear. As long as I don't hear that here, the people on the other side of the picture tube that doesn't belong there won't be any confidence either that these morals, that deontology, that we need so much, and that new culture in the financial sector will also be there, both with the supervisors and with the banks that are flying off the turn. Minister, I am very disappointed in that today. After all, you clearly do not yet have that new culture in your hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the army's strategic plan is somewhat like these television series, which have several seasons and many episodes. This is a bit boring, because this series does not contain much suspense: we already know the replicas and all the scenes. The scenario isn't really evolving. I'll still remind you of one or two episodes. First episode of season 1: you announce in October 2014 that we will finally break with the past in terms of Defence, that we will be able to reinvest, that the budget will meet the challenges and, above all, that a strategic plan will be presented within six months. Season 2: You say, and this is on page 205 of the Government Agreement, that you are going to go around the countries of NATO and the European Union so that none of them will reduce the defence budget any more. And you add: "From now on!" I'll give you the episodes to get to the Christmas deal. So you're announcing the strategic plan by talking about a historic agreement. No luck for you, in the first episode of season 3, you present to the House your strategic plan... which is immediately dismantled! Indeed, Mr. Wouter Beke, president of the CD&V, said that he was not aware of it, and the Open Vld said he was surprised. Everyone in your majority defeats this plan and believes it is not one. Today we are just a few weeks away from the NATO summit. You wouldn't want to put your hands in your pockets. It is my understanding that you have submitted to Kern a strategic plan that has been budgeted. This did not work again, since yesterday you did not reach an agreement. Mr. Minister of Defence, what's wrong? Don't you have enough of that job you're in, we're getting you out of red boxes, and we're keeping you from moving on? What is the reason why we still do not have a budgeted strategic plan? You make the budget, not for the next government, nor for its successor, but for the next one, since you are busy writing the 2030 one. It's still amazing! I've never seen that before. To pass the time, you are preparing the 2030 budget. That is why I would like to hear from you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u69	Mr. Dallemagne, you're right. Defence is a key mission of the federal state. It is necessary to invest in Defence, in our security, in the freedom, prosperity and well-being of all our compatriots. Within the government, we are working hard to finalize a text that explains or starts the December 22 decisions. Indeed, the measures taken on that day are clear to all. Today, this is the finalisation of the text. With this text, our Defence will be able to meet the same level as our partners. Mr Dallemagne, I welcome your interest because it strengthens me in my search for a future for our Defence. I also feel supported by Mr Yüksel's resolution, which was approved in committee yesterday. This resolution was co-signed by all government parties. I think you, too, could have supported her if you had been in the room at the time when the future of Defence was discussed. I invite you, Mr Dallemagne, to show that the future of Defence is more than just a little show in the House, it is also action. I suggest that you support your colleagues when we discuss this motion for a resolution in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u70	Minister, I think you need the support of the majority to try to get some money for your budget. There's no way I'm going to support this famous resolution you're talking about. It's a big trick. It's a smoke screen. There is nothing in this resolution. There's absolutely nothing. There's not a single number. It's really to make it look like we're coming with something at the Warsaw summit. But you're not coming with anything! But yes, you are setting figures for the government that will succeed the next government. That's your budget! And you're also announcing 1.3 per cent of GDP with pensions. In fact, at the end of the legislature, the budget will have decreased by 1.5 billion euros out of the total legislature, that is, more than the decrease in the budget from 2000 to 2013. And you'll be on a pension budget... Yes, it is the Court of Auditors! I'm not the one saying it! These are the figures that the Court of Auditors has just published. Absolutely! It bothers you but it is the Court of Auditors! As you know, at the end of the Parliament, in the Defence budget, the pension budget will be equal to the Defence budget. That is, the pension budget for former members will be equal to the Defence budget. It is with these two cumulative figures that you will be presenting 0.9% of GDP, which is quite lamentable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u71	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u72	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the Chamber of Representatives of the Republic of Tunisia expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, a message of support and condolences came from the Assembly of People's Representatives of the Republic of Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u73	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Philippe Goffin, Egbert Lachaert, Raf Terwingen, Sarah Smeyers, Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u75	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u76	Mr President, this may seem like a small legislative proposal, but I would like to emphasise its importance. It is a system for assessing the value of usufruct. It was formulated a few years ago, but now it appears that the evolution of potentially negative interest rates could lead to a negative valuation of this usufruct. The result could be that money would have to be imposed if we were to sell or abandon usufruct. The regulation we are proposing sets a minimum interest rate of 1% to avoid this. In addition, it also regulates the time or time from when to insert the calculation of the period before the publication of the tables. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have contributed to the debate and who have also supported this proposal, so that it is ready in good time and that it can be published before 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u77	Sometimes, between the time of the vote in committee and the time when the file arrives before the assembly, there is a period that allows for a few small checks. In principle, an amendment should be tabled in this regard. Mr Brotcorne had tabled an amendment in this dossier; unfortunately this amendment was not accepted. However, it was of partial interest. The fact that he was not retained in one of its parts will lead to the abstention of the Socialist Group. Yes, the current law could cause a difficulty, that is, a situation of negative interest. But the proposed solution is only partial. In fact, a table of usufruct values, defined in a stable and invariable manner, such as those contained in the Code of Registration Rights and the Code of Succession Rights, should have been provided. That's what we call opting out. The judge's intervention takes place according to a method imposed on him. This exists for the calculation of food contributions. If he does not want to follow this method, he must specifically explain his decision and what method he substitutes for it. I think that was in the right direction. On the basis of these elements, the Socialist Group will therefore abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u78	Mr President, I would like to reply to that. We have indeed discussed this in committee. There was a very explicit reference to the fact that we wanted to enter into the philosophy of the existing text and did not want to put forward a new formula. At the same time, it is also very clearly justified why that 1% was selected and why the date of 1 July was retained as a whole. I would like to refer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1825/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1825/5) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u81	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u82	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u83	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Patricia Ceysens, Griet Smaers, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Leen Dierick, Peter Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u85	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u86	Thank you. First of all, I shall pass the floor to Mrs Ceysen, who is the author of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I would, of course, like to thank the rapporteur for the report. We have actually given two readings on this proposal. The proposal itself is also very short: there is one article and yet it makes an important change in our copyright. Colleagues, who in Belgium takes a photo of a protected work in the public domain, for example a monument or a statue, violates the copyright of the designer of this work so the user who also publishes photo. You should definitely surf to the Wikipedia page of the Atomium and you will find there no photo of the Atomium. You can see a photo of a miniature atomium from abroad, but of the real Atomium there is no photo on the Wikipedia page. The reason is that the design of the Atomium, which dates back to 1958, is protected up to 70 years after the death of the architect. This means that the Atomium becomes duty-free in October 2075. This bill will change that. As a result, we agree with most European countries, which have already introduced so-called panorama freedom, on the basis of the principle that the public space view belongs to all of us. As everyone has become a bit of a photographer today, with smartphone and social media, this proposal represents an important step forward. Colleagues, this proposal is not at all contrary to the moral or economic rights of an author; on the contrary, it is essentially about stimulating even more creativity. After all, most artists and authors are now inspired by creations by others. How can this process take place when photographing buildings and works of art is linked to very strict rules? Why should we not work creatively with buildings and works of art in the public domain? It should be an ambition to make as good and creative as possible photographs of these works of art and to share them with everyone in the world. For the record, it's not about artwork in a building, like a painting in a museum. These are buildings and monuments intended to be placed in the public domain. The opposition considered it necessary to table amendments to allow reproduction for non-commercial use only. Those amendments will undoubtedly be explained shortly. We did not want to go into those amendments for two reasons. Firstly, the author's economic rights are protected, both by the proposal now before us and by the case law we have now come to know. Anyone who believes that his work is being abused can, of course, always fight against it. Secondly, we could have a problem of interpretation. After all, what is commercial use? That could go a long way. If I put a picture on Facebook, there's an ad next to it. Is that commercial use, even if everyone will think it is private use? Even the online encyclopedia Wikipedia is unfortunately considered commercial by the courts. So we would not win anything, because despite our proposal, Wikipedia would still not be allowed to publish a picture of, for example, the Atomium on the page in question. That would be too absurd anyway. We want to avoid such discussions and we therefore find it particularly regrettable that so-called progressive parties in the hemisphere cannot deal with the free distribution of photographs of the public domain, which is why they want to privatise the public domain. For us, that's the world upside down. That is why I am launching a final encouragement to support our proposal, including with that one article, in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal on freedom of view, the majority has found an opportunity to be the caricature of itself. It has become less certain about its refusal to hear the opposition. That I can understand, it's usual. But above all, it has not deigned to respond to the sectors directly concerned by the proposal. That's the most terrible thing. Let us not listen to the opposition, we are used to it, but let us not listen to all sectors or specialists, it is problematic! Yet artists, architects and their representatives, if they could not be heard in committee, have made their fears clear to us through dozens of e-mails that we have all received. Even Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, who is not here, made a statement in committee – and I thank her for that – asking if the majority was sure to reject the amendment; indeed, a lot of people called Mr Reynders who was rather in favour of this amendment, I would point out, but the majority decided. She seems to have made it an incomprehensible question of pride. For her, her text is perfect and those who say otherwise, as expert as they are, have not understood it, as has been repeated here. All the management companies wrote to us. So much so if this certainty is achieved at the cost of a dangerous breach in the rights of artists and architects. I would point out, however, that no one is against the objective pursued by the proposal. I'm not against the goal, neither is the PS. We are not against the objective. At the time of smartphones connected to social networks, we are obviously not against this objective. It is totally illusory to require the permission of an architect to publish a photo of a building on Facebook. Of course! We never said otherwise. We fully support that. The law must be in line with reality. Each group that voted in favour or against this proposal or abstained from it repeated it, but the proposal as drafted goes far beyond the laudable objective that you have set out here. With this proposal, any company will, for example, be able to sell postcards of a work located in the public space without paying its author. Nothing! This is a real breach in a principle that bases all copyright legislation. An artist must benefit from the work he has done. It is not acceptable for anyone to make profits on their backs. This is creativity! Let artists receive copyright and be able to live on their art, not the other way around! The same applies to architects. For this reason, for the third time, I am resubmitting an amendment to exclude commercial use from the scope of the proposal. I like to repeat that obviously, even with this amendment, anyone on Facebook will be able to post a photo of any work in public space and Wikipedia is not considered a commercial site. Stop giving examples that are not and that are false! At some point, we are simply asking for the common sense of this majority. This common sense amendment, which does not in any way undermine the objective of the bill, as defended by the majority, is demanded by the whole sector. This is the solution that was chosen in France after the hearing of huge numbers of people. It was exactly similar parliamentary work. Here, no hearing, no agreement, not even reading those emails that were sent to us. I sincerely hope that the Members of the majority, particularly the MR, will hear right and vote in favour of this amendment, otherwise my group and I will not support this liberal proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u89	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, copyright is well regulated in Belgium. That's a good thing. It protects artists, authors, rights holders from any reproduction that would be made of their artistic work for profit. However, with the evolution of technology, the development of social networks as well, it appears that the current legislation is no longer in line with our methods of operation. Who, in fact, was never photographed in front of the Atomium? We were talking about it earlier. Posting these photos on social media today may seem quite annoyed for a lambda citizen but may, in fact, have significant legal consequences. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that Belgium, like France, Italy and Greece, is one of the last countries where the ban on taking photographs of works in public space is still applicable. The other European countries have put an end to this very special situation. In 2001, Europe also became aware that this provision was no longer appropriate. Since then, it has enabled the Member States to remove copyrights "works such as architectural works, sculptures made to be placed on the public road". To date, Belgium has not yet made use of this European directive. The authors of the present text wish to adapt our legislation, which is too restrictive by proposing to guarantee the freedom of view. If the text to which the Reform Movement is favourable is voted, an artist, author, architect or his successors will no longer be able to oppose the reproduction of his works, provided that they are, on purpose, in public space. The adoption of this text in committee was not obvious. Indeed, various organisations whose purpose is to defend copyright have opposed it on the grounds that this use for private purposes could be taken over by third parties for profit. Some colleagues had tabled amendments to that effect. We objected to these amendments because they seemed superfluous or even counterproductive to us, in view of the provisions of European legislation today, but also of the World Intellectual Protection Organisation. I am obviously referring here to the test of the three phases which automatically allows to verify whether the work is used for profit or not. The control is therefore carried out upstream. Freedom of view is not yet an acquired right in our country. We need to evolve. The proposal before you goes precisely that way. In my view, a balance must be struck between freedom of access to culture and freedom to photograph and respect for copyright. For my group, the text before us makes it possible to regain that balance, which is why we will support it. And we invite our colleagues, who would still be undecided, to support it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are here, reading reports and speeches in committee, on a great misunderstanding. Believe me, I'm sorry. I regret it all the more because it is not because of the fact that, during the debate, it was asked to listen to the actors. The chairman of the committee is present. We adopted at first reading, and then we asked for a second reading. Since stakeholders in the sector have not been consulted, they have themselves expressed themselves through e-mails. What strikes me is the lack of interest in the sector's positions. We've all received these e-mails and letters. They entered the debate because they did not want things to be voted as it was. Of course, Mr Friart and ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that the works exhibited in public space may, for example, be taken up in photographs. Public space is open to all, but it is also essential to prohibit its commercial use in order to protect authors and creators. It should be recalled that the authors themselves are not opposed to the fact that individuals can freely reproduce and communicate works permanently located in public space. They simply ask for a number of guarantees in return for this freedom. I can draw your attention to the long debate in the French Parliament, the National Assembly and the Senate, whose members have spent time listening to the actors and creators in order to arrive at a solution different from the one proposed today. Of course, the amendment tabled in committee was rejected. It's announced he'll be back in session. It explicitly excludes any use of a direct or indirect commercial nature. This seemed to us to be a guarantee for the authors. As the authors remind us in their e-mails, this law is simply a reversal of the burden of proof to the detriment of the authors who, in order to enforce their creations, will have to resort systematically to the courts. I think that's a shame and we're not going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u92	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1484/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1484/9) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u93	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u94	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u95	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1831/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1831/1) The draft law has 45 articles. The bill has 45 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u98	Article 31 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u99	Article 32 is adopted. Articles 33 to 45 shall be replaced by the following: Article adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Laaouej et Van de Velde. Mr. Laaouej referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u102	Mr President, I shall speak on Mr (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u103	You were registered. Mr. Deseyn is registered. I made a mistake. Excuse me. Three speakers have registered. The first of them is Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my question to the Minister of Finance, but also to the majority, is very simple: when are you going to return to our fellow citizens the money you took from them? Indeed, the increase in VAT on electricity that you have decided will cost them 750 million euros. Excuse me for a minute. Add to this all the other taxes on consumption that you have increased in unprecedented proportions: in the order of more than two billion euros. In total, you have increased consumption taxes by 8% in just two years. Anyway, you're breaking all the records. It's nice to explain that you're going to offer a cheque of one hundred euros a month by reducing the tax on labour - besides, this measure will only affect 10% of the population, and again, in 2019 - but you immediately increased the taxes on a need that is still basic, namely electricity. The result of your anti-social policy is that today, the price of electricity has grown by 15% and we rank among the countries where it is most expensive. That's your sad record. If I were you, I wouldn't be proud. If I were yours, I might take advantage of the fiscal adjustment to finally review the tax system and make it truly fairer by taxing speculation in particular. But, as I understood, this is clearly not the government's priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u105	Mr President, this debate has taken place in committee and I do not think that the views of both will change today. I would just like to point out that, when the decision was taken to reduce the cost of VAT on electricity, it was specified that the government would re-evaluate the measure at some point in time. In the end, we found that this measure had led to a large number of abuses and frauds, amounting to an estimated EUR 978 million. It was logical for the government to reconsider this decision after doing this analysis. Of course, there may be a number of decisions at the federal level that displease the opposition. On the other hand, we cannot be at the federal level and at the regional level by steam. If one looks at taxes in the Walloon Region and compares them with those in the Brussels Region and the Flemish Region for service securities, the tax on furniture, the tax on traffic, the price of water, the price of gas, it is in the Walloon Region that these taxes are the highest. It's a little easy to tell the federal "you can't raise the electricity tax" knowing that the highest level of taxation is in Wallonia, where the opposition is in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u106	Mr President, the main purpose of this text is to confirm the increase in VAT on electricity to 21%. In addition to the impact on families, especially those who do not benefit from the tax shift, such as pensioners and beneficiaries, it is striking that this government has no energy vision. Mr Van Overtveldt, there is an urgent need to help families and businesses consume less energy. In the final cost of energy, there are two variables, unit cost and volume. The urgency for our citizens and businesses, particularly in terms of efficiency and competitiveness, is to get on with incentives, aid, to reduce this final consumption. It is also essential with regard to the climate goals or commitments we made in Paris, confirmed in New York and which we still need to ratify. We regret that, government after government, VAT on electricity is used as a variable for budgetary adjustment, which is assumed more or less in accordance with electoral commitments. On the other hand, there is no vision, no overall plan, no clear way to put our country on the path to energy autonomy by more efficiency, by better isolation. The economic and geostrategic importance is completely undervalued by the members of the government, we regret it, and that is why we will not vote on this text earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u107	Mr President, I would like to point out a paradox in what has been said. It was found that the decline in the VAT rate had led to an increase in consumption. As part of the approach you have just taken in saying that consumers should be held accountable, I think that this 21 % discount will certainly make the consumer more responsible, as we have seen that at 6 % consumption is much more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u108	Mr President, here is a small quote: "It was essential to take a measure that was time-bound, in order to support the purchasing power of citizens at a time when energy expenditure is a heavy burden in the family budget". Do you know, Mr. Thiéry, who is this quote? Charles Michel, then president of the MR, and now prime minister. Please, a little consistency. For the rest, I was nice to you earlier; I said "more than two billion". In fact, it is 2 billion 800 million increase in taxes on consumption in just under two years, caught in the pockets of households. Household pocket in which you have already gone to get 2.5 billion with the index jump, more than 5 billion euros for our fellow citizens. Do you realize what you're doing? Do you see the situation in which you place the inhabitants of this country? They can't do it anymore and ask you for a fairer tax. So stop telling us you're a social government. It's just the opposite. At the same time, and this is what makes your case worse, you give gifts to the diamond sector, which you confirm in your budget adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u109	Mr President, I do not know where Mr Thiéry's figures are, but I am interested in them. It is a pity that they were not presented in the Finance Committee. If this is true, and the increase in VAT will mechanically reduce final energy consumption, there would be additional conditions for the exercise to be successful from a sustainable development point of view, i.e. from an economic, social and environmental point of view. Additional revenues should be used to help create additional alternatives and reduce final consumption, including for economic purposes, and to make social corrections to families that will have to bear these expenses, for example with progressive energy pricing. That's not what you do. We have here a purely budgetary measure that we would have liked to hide. But you were forced to have it validated as part of a lost clause in the bill that is on the Orders of the Day. This is again a measure without an environmental, economic or social vision. We regret it. Do not attempt to mask this later by environmental pseudo-arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u110	Mr President, my speech will be brief, because we will certainly disagree. Mr. Michel probably made a statement. While the MR welcomed the decline in this VAT, the government had nevertheless committed itself to re-evaluate after a period of about two years to detect possible perverse effects. As these were found, the methodology was reviewed. On the other hand, where I am somewhat embarrassed at the roundabouts, it is when I hear the message that is given to me about taxation that must be fairer at the federal level. In this case, apply the same principle of taxation in Wallonia rather than give lessons here!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u111	Mr Laaouej, you are talking about a reduction in the purchasing power of the average Belgian. Last week we saw the statistics of the National Bank of Belgium. It says that real disposable income, household income or private income increased by 1.5 % in 2015. For this year, the National Bank says it is 1.6 % and next year the real disposable income will increase by 1.7 %. The real disposable income of individuals and families increases for three years by more than 1.5%. Under the Di Rupo government, in which we were also responsible, this income decreased, Mr. Laaouej! Real disposable income decreased in 2013 and 2014, look at the statistics. The first year is about a decrease of 1.5 % and the second year is about 1%. All of your theory about the decline in people's income is wrong. On the contrary, purchasing power has increased, partly because tax cuts have been introduced. If you are talking about increasing VAT, I must point out that it is being translated into the index. There will be indexation in the following months, so that there will be compensation by increasing income. Mr Laaouej, you refuse to acknowledge, and this has been the case for weeks, that the real disposable income increased last year and this year. Why do you deny that, because it's about figures from the National Bank? You keep denying that. There is almost negationism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that in my personal capacity, I have a great deal of sympathy for the representatives of the majority who have just spoken, particularly for Mr. Van Rompuy, who demonstrated that household disposable income has increased. Having said that, I understand that the president of the CD&V was asking for a social correction to fiscal policy. But I did not understand that this correction consisted of an increase in VAT on electricity. I would also like to say to Mr Thiéry, for whom I also have a great deal of sympathy and with whom I do not wish to be cruel, that I am surprised to see the contortions that the MR must make in order to try to justify its evolution. It is true that you have not changed your mind since the debate we have had in committee. But let me tell you that the 2014 declaration was not a statement by Charles Michel, but rather an electoral slogan of the MR. But it must be noted that there has sometimes been a substantial development between the slogans you defended at the time of the campaign and the positions you took after the elections. I would also like to add that it is quite surprising that it is you, Mr Thiéry, who are, in a way, bashing against Wallonia and the Brussels Region and who are in line with the tax policy of the Flemish Region. But perhaps this is an application of Stockholm syndrome. Everything happens, Mr. Thiéry! Obviously, you are in the Region where you live.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reference to the work of the National Bank of the Members of the Majority becomes a bit crazy. Not later than this week, Ms Wilmès explained to us that the National Bank's report should not be taken too seriously because, in her view, the National Bank did not take into account all the elements of government policy. For example, when it was pointed out that, according to the National Bank, 8 to 9 billion euros would have to be found, it told us that the Bank's opinion should not be taken into account. After Mr. Van Overtveldt, Mr. Van Rompuy refers to the National Bank. In other words, when it suits you, you refer to the advice of the National Bank. When it doesn't work out for you, you don't know them. I can understand the difficulty you're in. On the bottom, Mr. Van Rompuy, I'm surprised! You explained to us that according to the National Bank, disposable income is increasing. Let us agree on the observation made by the National Bank! We will check whether this is true on the basis of the facts. Mr Van Rompuy, what counts is not the nominal increase in disposable income, but the distribution of disposable income per decile of income, to see who sees its income increase. Is this the popular class? Is it the middle class? Are these the high incomes? Since you have quoted the National Bank, I refer you to an analysis it has made of the redistributive effect of taxation on direct and indirect taxes. What's she saying? It says that indirect taxes, in other words, taxes on consumption are anti-distributive. Now, you've increased them by $2.8 billion, which means you're going to strengthen inequalities in income distribution. You say that respendable revenues are increasing. We'll see. But what is important is the distribution of this income increase: who loses and who wins with the anti-social policy you lead? Finally, Mr President, this Parliament and my colleagues deserve the utmost respect. When I spoke of 2.8 billion in two years, it was actually 2.8 billion euros in increase by 2018. The truth has its rights and I wanted to make it clear so as not to mislead Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u114	Mr President, I had a technical question. Is there any way to make a projection in the Chamber? For I do not know if Mr Thiéry can see this visual of Charles Michel all smiling, which says: "VAT on electricity drops from 21 % to 6 %, promise kept!" "Promise held," Charles Michel told us. We can say that Charles Michel is the man who keeps his promises for a while, rather short indeed. He added: "With tenacity, we have been able to convince that it is essential to increase the purchasing power of citizens at a time when energy expenditure represents a heavy financial burden in families' budgets." I don't say much of Charles Michel's good, but I agree with what he said at the time. And much less with what is in this bill today. Mr Laaouej asks me: thanks to whom? In particular, the campaign launched by the PTB in 2008 collected 225,000 signatures. Can the PS boast of having collected so much? An important point is indeed the tax shift. Fiscally, it is quite surprising: on the one hand, consumer taxes such as VAT, which is 21% for all – Albert Frère pays 21% as his concierge, unless he has a ruling in Luxembourg allowing him to pay less than for his private jet – and on the other hand, the tax on natural persons, which is a progressive tax, is reduced. So we are reducing a guarantor of tax justice while increasing a tax that is the same for all citizens. How can you explain it? When we asked the Minister of Finance for a decile distribution of the tax shift effect, he told us that we would get it in a month's time on the grounds that it was difficult to calculate. We never got them. We could describe this as an antisocial measure, especially when we see that the average price of electricity for Belgian households has steadily increased. During the period 2007-2014, it increased by 26.5 per cent, an average of 114 euros more per year. Mr Thiéry referred to the situation in Wallonia, but I do not think it is better in Flanders, since it is estimated that the electricity bill amounts to 940 euros, i.e. 23% more than in neighbouring countries. Moreover, the difference with France is even 56%. What we need to know is that electricity weighs much more in the budget of poor families than in the budget of rich families. Figures from the Economy FPS show that the richest households spend barely 5% of their budget on energy bills, while the poorest households spend as much as 19%, i.e. a fifth of their income on energy. The energy bill is therefore a heavy monthly charge. Moreover, the number of meter closures for unpaid invoices continues to increase. In the 2010 major household budget survey, we see that, in our country, about 750,000 households, one in seven households, have to cope with this "energy poverty", as we can call it. It's not just the poorest families who feel this increase. All households, workers feel it. On the other hand, price increases once again have an impact on the entire economy. Of course, the increase in taxes on consumption has a disastrous social effect, but also a negative economic effect, since people consume less and SMEs, the self-employed – whose colleagues in the MR are usually the main advocates – are directly affected. Finally, one may wonder why the same VAT rate is applied to electricity as on caviar, for example. Why? While energy is clearly a basic need. In conclusion, it is time for this government to implement a policy that guarantees both a social price and a green electricity production, because here too, we are far from the point, by making use of the multinationals of energy and by putting the VAT rate at a normal rate for a basic need, that is, 6%, so that Charles Michel can finally fulfil his promise again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u115	Mr President, I come back to an argument which Mr Thiéry very often uses and which we cannot let go. Under the pretext that there would have been abuses in electricity bills here or there, the entire population must be penalized. Imagine if we were to apply this reasoning in other areas! Mr Thiéry, the Court of Auditors has indeed noted a number of abuses. Much less than those mentioned by the Minister of Finance when he justified the measure! Do you imagine that with your argument, we are in a logic of collective punishment? Please try to find other arguments than collective punishment as an answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u116	Mr President, I am not going to repeat everything that has already been said. Many arguments have come together. As far as net disposable income is concerned, I am not going to repeat the figures of the National Bank as Mr. Van Rompuy quoted and which are still the official figures. There is no reason to deny them. Indeed, an average is an average. An average half-metre river can be very dangerous because in some places it can be five metres deep. These aggregate figures in terms of net disposable income are shown in the National Bank figures for two reasons. Firstly, the fact that the increase in VAT on electricity remains in the index. There is automatically compensation for everyone. Second, the net effect of the tax shift is the most pronounced for the lowest wages. There is indeed an element of remuneration, taking into account the overall average figure, but there is therefore also, because of what I have just pointed out, a redistribution effect. Again, not too many rehearsals. I think the elements were given. When it comes to climate and environmental considerations, I believe that everyone agrees more or less that one of the most important or effective elements, to curb consumption, is still an increase in price. There is certainly also an ecological aspect in what the government has done. Finally, there was criticism from the European Union, the OECD, of measuring the reduction in VAT. We have seen the abuses that have occurred and are still under investigation. Finally, the underestimation of budgetary consequences was also an undeniable fact. I believe that on the basis of all these elements, we have taken an economically, socially and ecologically defensible decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u117	Mr President, one point that I could have mentioned at the beginning of my speech, which it seems to have been forgotten, is that the government is very late. We will not lose sight of the fact that if the government can increase the VAT rates by royal decree, this must be confirmed immediately before the parliament by a law. The Council of State obviously did not fail to recall this when its legislative section delivered its opinion. I hope that what has happened will not happen again because we will still remember that we are talking about taxes. It's not annoyance. The place where we have to vote on taxes is parliament. This cannot be decided by royal decrees which can only be confirmed several months later. This is a way of working that is obviously not acceptable, but I had already said so in the Finance Committee. I wanted to call him back for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u118	Mr Minister, just for your measure to be environmentally friendly, two conditions are not met: on the one hand, to use at least part of the additional recipe to help with final energy consumption - because that is the objective - and on the other hand, to have social adjustments for families who do not benefit from the tax shift and who will have to take on this increase in VAT. I am thinking in particular of pensioners who are very regularly targeted by your government's policies, which I regret with my Ecolo-Groen group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1753/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1753/1) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u121	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 12(n) • 2 - Peter Vanvelthoven (1753/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u122	Sustained: the vote on the amendment. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u123	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u124	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 477: Luk Van Biesen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Dispa - 98: Veerle Wouters. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u126	Mr. Van Biesen is impatient and I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u127	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. You've noticed that Mr. Van Biesen wanted to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u128	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to say that the present bill had already been signed by Mr Dispa and Mr Piedboeuf and Mrs Wouters, but in the meantime it has been signed by all the democratic groups in Parliament. So that is best recorded as well. CD&V, sp.a and Groen-Ecolo also co-signed the document. I wish to put that right. The bill was unanimously approved by the committee. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee, because it is the second legislative proposal that we are presenting to the plenary in the present legislature. What's the bill about? There is rarely any mention of education in the Chamber, because it is a Community competence. This is about the possibility of making a tax gift. Today, a donation can be made to university institutions that carry out scientific research. Meanwhile, the educational landscape has fundamentally changed. Many colleges of applied sciences have been added, and many colleges of applied sciences are also required to carry out scientific research. That is why we are proposing the possibility for all citizens of our country to also give gifts to colleges, because they are in great need of sources of funding. What's it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u129	Mr Van Biesen, Mrs Pas asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u130	Mr Van Biesen, I have a question. On the one hand, you say that there is unanimity. You probably forgot to ask for my approval. Otherwise we might have been able to sign this proposal, because of course we fully agree with the principle that this inequality should be eliminated. On the other hand, you yourself say that education is a Community competence. This debate was also held during the previous legislature. At that time, several members of the committee were convinced that this is at the limit of an excess of competence, that there is uncertainty as to whether the present proposal falls within the competence of the Länder. I regret that no opinion from the Council of State has been asked to fully clarify that lack of competence. It would be a shame if the fine principle were to be challenged legally if there were a problem of over-exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u131	Thank you for your speech, Mrs Pas. Of course, I was talking about unanimity in committee. Your group is still too small today to have voting rights in committee. This has been discussed repeatedly in the previous legislature, as you say. At that time sufficient information was obtained about the fact that this is specifically about a gift. The list of donations compiled is a clear federal jurisdiction. Even if the beneficiary of the gift is a college, which is a community matter, the gift as such remains federal matter. What's it about? I'd like to put this on the table anyway. In Flanders it is about 16 Flemish colleges, about 68 professional bachelor's programmes, 10 master's programmes, 3 banabas and 4 manamas. A total of 117 262 students take courses at these colleges. Those are the figures only for Flanders. My French-speaking fellow Members will complete this with the figures for French-speaking education. There is a fundamental need to structure the refinancing of colleges. That is indeed a community matter. We in this House call on our fellow Members in the various Land Parliaments to give the petition value. It is a cooperation agreement between colleges to get EUR 7 000 public subsidy per student. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you in advance for the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u132	Mr President, the MR Group too welcomes the unanimous adoption, in any case that of the committee, of this beautiful project. This will allow higher schools to fund their research. It will stimulate scientific research and have a positive impact on innovation. This will also enable our country to become even better part of the future projects of the European Union, and of the Horizon 2020 programme. It is therefore a project that we are carrying out collectively and that will encourage the involvement of the private sector in the financing of higher education, i.e. education and research. It is a way to promote excellence, and to draw our country and the Regions up. For us, in short, it is intelligence in the service of intelligence. We therefore congratulate the initiator and are very pleased to support this beautiful project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal has indeed been sufficiently explained: the tax reduction for donations to be extended to colleges. It is a very good thing that the colleges no longer experience this discrimination, especially when it is seen that colleges and universities are often integrated through association. It is therefore logical and desirable that no further division be made between the different forms of higher education. Our group was happy to support this bill in the Finance Committee, but we wanted to go even further. That's why I've climbed the speaker's chair to point this out. However, precisely with our ambition to move forward, we certainly did not want to be a brake on the proposal before us today. Our group, like the other groups, regularly gets the question of why they cannot give gifts to secondary schools or primary schools. It is clear that the present proposal has made a link with scientific research. However, it would not be foolish to think that people could make tax-deductible donations to secondary schools or primary schools. We are sensitive to these questions because this also has to do with investing in the local community. There is a huge involvement of parents or grandparents if they want to do a gift to the school where their children or grandchildren are school-walking. It may be monetary or material aid. In this way people are also thinking more and more consciously about today's education, but also about the education of the future. Involving parents and grandparents in primary and secondary education through tax relief for donations certainly has its advantages. One should not always work top-down, so one can work bottom-up from the involvement of these parents and grandparents. We will therefore put forward a proposal on this subject. We want to provide this opportunity for parents and grandparents or for other people who want to invest, who want to make a voluntary contribution to the local school community, financial or material. We hope that there will then be the same enthusiasm in plenary to support this enlargement as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u134	Mr President, we have co-signed and voted on this text because there is no objective reason not to apply the same principles to higher schools as to universities in terms of opportunities to receive liberalities. They do the same job, more and more. They are in charge of this extraordinary job of training the workers and citizens of tomorrow. In this, we must help them. However, I would like to make it clear that what is additional funding must not become the norm tomorrow. We absolutely do not plead for the privatisation of the financing of higher schools and schools in general. It is not up to this assembly or this level of power that sufficient resources continue to be allocated to our different levels of education. It is also a bit of our responsibility because the funding of the Communities comes from federal legislation. For this to happen, the tax must be collected correctly and redistributed in such a correct way. It's a nuance I wanted to bring to our support. This is therefore an opportunity for supplementary funding for schools. Under no circumstances should this private funding become, as in other countries, the main funding, which obviously raises many ethical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join Mr Van Biesen. He has explained this proposal very well. I am therefore pleased that we can finally adopt this proposal during this term of office. I am also pleased for my colleague, because we had that discussion in the Finance Committee during the previous legislature. I would therefore like to thank those Members who have co-signed this proposal. Mr Van Biesen, during the previous legislature you were the initiator. I reminded this legislature that we had to continue to work on this. I am therefore very pleased that it is being approved here today. We want to ensure that there is no discrimination between colleges and universities. Colleges make a very big contribution to research, so this must also be able to be financed in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u136	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u137	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (477/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (477/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Deseyn, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u140	Mr President, I shall make a brief comment on this text; it will be quite similar to the text on the increase in VAT on electricity. Here, we are increasing the excise duty on alcohol, and I am sure that in a few minutes, the Minister of Finance will explain to us that this is a public health measure. If the price of alcohol is higher, less will be consumed. The problem is that health prevention policies are specific. They must be financed. Tell us if the revenue from this increase in excise duties is going to be attributed to preventive measures. I think the answer is no; it is part of a global perspective that unfortunately is not that of the government; it is again simply a budgetary measure. We also noted in committee that the unscheduled nature of this increase in excise duties not negotiated with the various sectors led, in any case in the short term, to the opposite budgetary effects than those desired. There has been a decrease in excise revenue for a number of reasons: perhaps by anticipation or by moving purchases. These consequences will have to be measured over time for a concerned economic sector. There is a real impression that, for tax shift funding, the government has considered different heterogeneous measures, without an environmental or public health perspective, and that, a posteriori, it is trying to justify and dress them with arguments. We cannot follow this. It was also done in stoemelings, discreetly. The government was forced to include in an article of law the confirmation of what had been decided by order, but we are obviously vigilant. It seems important to us to stress this fact, which I am doing by speaking briefly from my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u141	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Gilkinet has said, we are dealing here with a matter that affects public health. No one will dispute it, alcohol abuse is not recommended. We must be able, through serious and sufficient prevention policies, to avoid this scourge. Nevertheless, we informed the Minister of Finance that his policy, without sufficient consultation of the sector, could produce a number of perverse effects. Among these perverse effects, there is cross-border shopping. Indeed, it has been demonstrated during our work, an increase in purchases from our neighbours, in particular our Luxembourg neighbours. At some point, a form of stability in numbers, etc. has been mentioned. But it must be remembered that the tax warehouse makes that when people store, the products were taxed, but at the old tariff. In other words, one must wait a few months to be able to judge the real effect of the increase in excise duties. Given the indisputable relocation of certain purchases to our neighbouring countries, you are not achieving your public health goal. Finally, people continue to drink alcohol, but they buy it elsewhere than in Belgium. In my view, you need to review the policy you are pursuing and, perhaps, reinvigorate the consultation with the sector – it seems to me to have understood that it was entirely in favour of it – in order to try to target with you, taking into account your budgetary objectives, measures that would have the least perverse effects. I can therefore only invite you, Minister, to return to the path of consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u142	We had a discussion in committee with Mr Gilkinet and the other members. We found a difference of opinion regarding the consistency of government policy. And this difference of opinion persists. As far as the figures are concerned, I have forwarded them to the members of the committee. However, I would like to make it clear that some of the anticipated effects are very visible. The increase took place on 1 November. The excise revenue figures are as follows: in October 2013, EUR 51 million; in October 2014, EUR 54 million; and in October 2015, EUR 115 million. We saw the effect back in the December-January-February figures. At the end of April, however, revenues amounted to EUR 223 million for the first four months. In comparison, in 2013, this amount was EUR 191 million; in 2014, EUR 217 million; and in 2015, EUR 212 million. We therefore see, with EUR 223 million for this year, that the recovery is already under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u143	Mr Minister, I have other figures which I would like to point out and which have been mentioned in our discussions in the Committee on Finance. I am informed that last February, compared to February 2015, the turnover of producers had fallen by 33%. It's still not negligible. In addition, in the sector of distilled beverages sales, it is estimated that 14% of sales will fall. I would therefore like to challenge the figures produced by the Minister. In my view, there are two reasons why we need to go further. First of all, you are not going to achieve your budgetary objective. Then you may miss out on public health goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u144	Mr Laaouej, I would like to inform you that I will receive the sector next Monday. I forgot to mention that in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u145	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u146	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1834/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1834/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u147	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Van Biesen. I assume he refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u149	Mr President, I shall speak briefly again. This is the transposition of a European directive aimed at strengthening the arsenal of sanctions in the event of market disruption by financial actors. I've reacted in committee and I'm going to do it again here. I think the Optima dossier, which was discussed earlier in the context of topical issues, is an example of this. What is the point of having an arsenal of sanctions against the financial sector if ever, almost ever or very rarely, it is not used in cases where fraud, malfeasance or mismanagement are proven? Unfortunately, our country has counted too much in the last ten years. Sanctions never come into play! Never is the fit and proper character of some bank managers removed! There are no penalties! In the wake of the vote on this text, which we support because it is more in the right direction, as we have said in the Panama Papers Committee's work this Tuesday to the representatives of the FSMA and the BNB – I repeat to the minister – it is essential that this arsenal of sanctions be used, that sanctions be taken, like what exists in other countries when unacceptable things happen, sanctions which, I hope, will discourage other bank officials from taking risks with the assurance of the public authorities to the detriment of their customers. We do not forget how unbearable the practices of some financial actors have cost the prosperity of this country. This is one of the factors that makes current budgetary choices difficult. On the other hand, of course, we are contesting the path you have chosen to resolve them, but let us not forget that they are largely responsible for the difficult situation facing our country and other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u150	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1835/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1835/1) The draft law has 37 articles. The bill has 37 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u153	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u154	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u156	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1850/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1850/3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law authorising the Minister of Finance to grant loans to the Joint Board." "Design of the law authorising the Minister of Finance to grant loans to the Joint Board'. The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u158	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u159	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report and also to point out that the draft law was adopted unanimously without any discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u160	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1852/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1852/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u163	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 682: Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre - 144: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u164	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. The rapporteurs are Mrs Matz and Mr D.H. Haese and refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u165	Mr President, we are indeed referring to the written report and we would like to thank the services of the Chamber for the report that we received from the committee meeting on which the last amendments were adopted unanimously. The proposal was therefore fully adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u166	That addition was indeed to be given orally, for which I thank you, Mr D.H.Haese.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last we could say. It is an important moment when the plenary will be voting on this text. The subject is not particularly sexy, but important in legal and academic circles. It concerns the publication of the opinions of the Council of State. That publication is already happening today, but unfortunately not for all the texts. In the end, many opinions are not published on the Council of State's website. That is unfortunate for three reasons. The first is transparency. We can say today that transparency is very important for a government. There is legislation on openness of administration. In theory one can always look for the advice, but one must know that a certain advice exists. There is no active disclosure of all texts. The second reason is scientific in nature. The legal opinions of the Council of State are often legal pearls. Sometimes they are tested, sometimes they are very thoroughly worked out, sometimes even in general meetings. Scientists can use a lot of that. Lawyers, professors, assistants, people doing scientific research can find a lot of inspiration in these texts, which were often unknown for the time being. Professor Velaers spoke here of a constitutional gold mine. He may be exaggerating a little, but I think it could indeed be a gold mine for professors if everything could be unlocked. The third reason relates to legislative work. If the government submits preliminary drafts and gives its opinion to the Council of State, which formulates an opinion, but if the text does not end up in Parliament, for example because of a negative opinion, because a certain route is not possible or for any other reason, such as the fall of the government, then the opinion of the Council of State will not be published and will remain unknown. It is important that when legislative initiatives are taken, either by the government or by the Chamber, it is possible to take note of opinions already drawn up, so that they can be taken into account. We have come a long way to put this text to the vote. A similar text had already been approved in the Senate in 2008. It was transferred to the Chamber and an opinion was requested from the Council of State. That advice wasn't forthcoming. The Chambers were then dissolved and the text could therefore never be approved by the Chamber. He was annulled at that time. Today it is seven and a half years since the text was approved in the Senate. We now have the opportunity to adopt the text again, albeit thoroughly amended. A new opinion has been requested from the Council of State. The interesting thing is that the Council of State allows opinions relating to the Communities and the Regions to be published, if they agree. Such an agreement has already been given in the past in the Consultation Committee. We hope that this trend will be maintained and that the opinions for the texts of the Communities and the Regions will also be published in full. The regulation does not just refer to new texts. Opinions issued in the past will also be made available. The Council of State's opinions are digital from 1989 to 1990 and will therefore be able to be published fairly quickly. It will be more complex for previous texts, but the bill stipulates that the State Council will have a little more time to put that right, namely until 1 January 2019. This scheme also applies to the Communities and the Regions. This will require an agreement, but I hope that will not be a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the text was adopted unanimously in the Committee on the Interior after this afternoon's amendment. I would like to express my thanks to the committee's colleagues, both opposition and majority. We have worked constructively for almost a year to achieve the proposed result. I thank all those who have made that possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u168	Mr President, the N-VA Group will also approve this important proposal, from the following technical and legal considerations. Firstly, it is very important for the N-VA to ensure maximum transparency of administration. Secondly, in any well-functioning democracy, transparency should be a matter of course. Thirdly, as Mr Degroote said in committee, it is a very good proposal, because an almost identical proposal was made by Mr Bourgeois in 2002. Those are good reasons for approving it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u169	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u170	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (682/13) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (682/13) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u172	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Daerden, referred to his written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1809/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1809/4) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law assigning new collection tasks to and integrating some of the assignments and some of the staff of the Special Social Security Schemes Office in the National Social Security Office as well as to settle various issues relating to Famifed and the Federal Pension Service." The title has been amended by the committee in "draft law assigning new tasks of perception and integration of certain missions and of part of the staff of the Office for Special Social Security Schemes to the National Social Security Office and regulating certain matters relating to Famifed and the Federal Pension Service". The draft law has 50 articles. The bill has 50 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u174	In Article 13, Articles 8/2 to 8/4 shall be replaced by the following: Article adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u175	In Article 17, Articles 8/6 and 8/7 shall be replaced by the following: Article adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u176	In Article 18, Articles 19 and 20 shall be replaced by the following: Article adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u177	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u178	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u179	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many good things in this draft law. However, you will forgive me if I confine myself to a few comments on the amendments made to Book XI: Intellectual Property, in particular in the case of European patents. The situation for Belgium to date is the following. The European Patent Office uses three official languages for examining and granting patents, namely English, German and French. In practice, the vast majority of patent applications and of European patents are drawn up in English. I understand that it is cumbersome for many companies and it costs a lot to request many translations. However, the validity of patents in the countries which are members of the European Patent Convention requires the translation of English into the national language or into one of the national languages. For our country, this means that an English text must be translated into Dutch, French or German, because the English text has no legal value in Belgium. Firstly, it is questionable that it was decided at the time that not all the official languages in Europe should be regarded as official languages. This status was granted only to English, German and French. If one had already thought that the number of official languages had to be reduced for financial reasons, it is not clear to me why, for example, French is recognised as an official language. At present, only 5% of patent applications are made in French, compared with more than 80% in English. So if we really wanted to work cost-effectively, we should have dealt with it in a different way and, for example, we should have recognized only one language. In the meantime, it is also intended to implement the London Protocol, which is an objective of this draft law, and to allow the contracting States to at least partially renounce the requirement of translation into one of their official languages. Colleagues, what is the most negative aspect for Flanders? Dutch is for translations into the double regime. Countries which have one of the official languages as national languages cannot request further translation. This applies, among other things, to France, Germany, Ireland and Belgium. Countries like the Netherlands may require a Dutch translation for the conclusions of the patents, but in Belgium the perverse consequence is that they will not be able to demand a translation into Dutch, because French is already an official language of the European Patent Office. This makes the Flemings, the majority of this country, the only language group in Europe which cannot be translated into its own language in its own country. Fortunately, the London Protocol has not yet been ratified in Belgium. An attempt was made to do this in 2008. It was discussed in the Senate and the Flemish Interest strongly opposed it. Fortunately, there were also early elections at the time, which prevented that protocol from being ratified. We were then, and we still believe, in principle, that it is unacceptable that anyone who applies for a patent in this country should go through a more difficult, cumbersome and costly procedure than anyone who applies for a patent in French. Today I see that this draft law is ready. Articles 22, 48 and 60 of this bill approve the content of the London Protocol. In fact, I read in the explanatory memorandum of this draft that, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, it is the government's intention to submit to Parliament a draft law approving the London Protocol. The government is therefore committed in this draft law to ratify that protocol. That surprises me, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a government party that fought against it together with us in 2008 and not just a little bit, but at all levels, both at the Flemish level, at the European level and at the federal level. At Flemish level, for example, then Minister Bourgeois said that he would invoke a conflict of interest against that decision in the Flemish Parliament. He was proud at the time that, during the federal government negotiations in 2007 in Hertoginnedal with the N-VA at the negotiating table, there was a consensus between all parties, including the French language, that the European patent regime would ensure that all languages in Belgium would be treated equally. Apparently, during the most recent government negotiations, along with all the other Community requirements, this has been put in the fridge, because today it is in black and white in the draft law. There was resistance not only at Flemish level with Minister Bourgeois, but also at European level. Back then, MEP Frieda Brepoels proposed that the European Union should pay so that companies would not have to bear the costs of translations. I quote her, in 2008: "It goes without saying that the European Union must respect all its languages. European pluralism is a blessing, a wealth. It is true that this wealth has a cost, but precisely because the diversity of languages is an essential characteristic, the Union must be prepared to pay for that cost without delay. Will we also stop translating documents from the European Parliament? This is happening at the expense of the European Union itself. Not only at European and Flemish level, but also at federal level there was resistance. I am glad that you are here, Secretary of State Francken, because there is still a 2008 press release on your own website. I would also like to quote from this: 'The N-VA strongly opposes the London Protocol'. It then explains what the Protocol is about, namely that patents should no longer be translated into all EU languages, but only into French, English and German. I quote Mr Francken: 'For Dutch there is no room anymore. However, today the government is proposing to Parliament to approve this treaty. The N-VA promises weather work, up to and including a possible conflict of interest in the Flemish Parliament, if necessary. A little further in the same press release, Mr Francken said: "Even the natives will have to protect their inventions in French, English or German. The files of all other inventions protected in Belgium will no longer be consultable in Dutch. Even the conclusion can no longer be found in Dutch. You conclude from this that the then government, however, is now doing the same thing with the current government to degrade Dutch into a home-garden and kitchen language. It is not possible, as you conclude in your press release, that the Flemings will not even be able to use their own language in their own country. Frankly, I do not have much to add to that press release. You were absolutely right then, Mr Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, it is amazing to see how in a very short time that resistance at all levels has turned to uncritical approval. I suspect that's the power of change. However, I can assure you that, for the reasons I mentioned and for the reasons I read out from Mr Francken's 2008 press release, we are consistent now that the Secretary of State is unable to adopt the draft law. I would also have liked to have been given an explanation for that power of change, for the reason why you suddenly changed your mind. We still support the same principle: it is unacceptable for our politicians to sacrifice the Dutch language in the name of the so-called higher European interests and also that the Protocol merely supports the interests of the large states. That can't be the intention. Unfortunately, for all the other good measures that that bill carries, we cannot approve the bill because of the London Protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pas calls for recognition and care of the Flemish language and the Flemish culture. We support that call, of course. Today is not about that either. We support our Flemish entrepreneurs in all possible areas. However, do we want to burden our Flemish entrepreneurs with a competitive disadvantage over their competitors? Are you sure that's wise? No. Today, therefore, this is not about language as a cultural fact, not about the language as a means of speaking with all of us and, importantly, to understand everything. We are talking about international trade here. If we were to follow Mrs Pas' proposal, we would charge our Flemish entrepreneurs with extra costs to make an extra translation, while trade takes place abroad for a large part. I believe that this is a very big difference from what exists under cultural emancipation and that we should not go along with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u182	Mr President, I cannot allow this kind of cobbler to go over my head. I'd still like to replicate. One can apparently change one's mind very quickly. Mr Klaps, I would like to hear, but the proposal I am making is the one you made with us in 2008. Allow the costs to be paid by the European Union and ensure that you do not ratify the London Protocol, that you continue the opposition that you rightly committed in 2008 at all levels. Make sure that the Flemings receive at least the same treatment as the Netherlands. It doesn't take a big legislative change to make that happen. That's a valid alternative. The OVV proposed this in 2008. You were perfectly convinced at the time, but apparently you really need to crawl through the sand for the Community omerta in this government. You are trying to condone it, but there are plenty of alternatives that will cost the companies nothing more. All you need today is the political will to change it. That's what's missing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u183	Mr Pas, you may accuse me of a great deal, but not of cobblery. I strongly oppose that. If there's anyone in here who's doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' doin' it, it's you. If a bill is technically discussed in committee you are not there, then you do not show up. You'll never come here to explain yourself. You're just not there. But now you come to the House to put on a song because you have read something somewhere and you think you will do something about it here. That has nothing to do with the essence of the dossier, and I therefore suggest that you refrain from commenting on pecking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u184	Mr President, if there are no substantive arguments, it must of course be looked below the belt. Mr Klaps, you may not know, but I have a lot of talents. However, the gift of bilocation is not included. I walk a lot of committees. Many Members here will know that I come to their committees to ask questions. Yesterday, for example, I followed all the debates throughout the day in the Committee on Health. I can't be on every committee at once. I don't know if you have that particular gift, I don't. But I do my job, I criticize and I'm consistent. What we announced in the Senate in 2008 about this protocol, I repeat here today. Those facts haven't changed. Only your vision of that has changed, not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u185	Mr Pas, I don't have the gift of bilocation either. I can't be in two places at once either. The opposition constantly uses these arguments to suspend committees because our people cannot be in two places at once. I can only conclude with you that you think it is important to debate issues in the Committee on Health, but not in the case of Dutch in the Committee on Business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u186	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u187	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1861/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1861/4) The draft law contains 98 articles. The bill has 98 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u188	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u189	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ann Vanheste, Monica De Coninck. The Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Small Business and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (1715/2) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this bill. (1715/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal seeks to eliminate discrimination between the student-entrepreneur and the job student. Do you think it is fair that a student entrepreneur can earn a maximum annual income of EUR 1 424 today to enjoy an exemption from contributions, while job students can earn EUR 6 742? Do you think it is fair that there is also a tax difference in the treatment between job students and student entrepreneurs and that the tax exemption of EUR 2 600 that the job students receive does not apply to the student entrepreneurs? Well, we don't. Especially in Belgium, where we want to strongly promote entrepreneurship. A student-entrepreneur is a young person, full of ambition, full of talent, with whom it tickles to undertake and who is also accompanied by the school. They are the entrepreneurs of our Belgian future. Minister Borsus has been promising to adapt the status of student entrepreneurs for two years, but where is this adjustment? Everyone's wondering. Many questions were asked in committee, by me and by the majority, but each time the Minister tried to appease us by saying that he was working on it and that it would come before the summer. In the meantime, we are already two summers away. The Committee for Business asked the Minister for an opinion on this bill. We didn't get any advice. What we did get was a nice friendly letter that says literally: 'I want to present this new statute to the committee as soon as possible.' Unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but I would point out that the legislative proposal is ready and that it only needs to be approved. I do not understand why the majority vote against the proposal, while they urgently want to find a solution themselves. CD&V also voted against in committee, while they could amend my text if they didn't like it; but they didn't. In secret, a new proposal is in the making that will actually amount to the same thing. I don't understand that kind of thinking at all. The Minister's initiative is so long overdue that Open Vld also submitted a resolution calling on the government to work on a student entrepreneur's statute as soon as possible. The N-VA constantly asks questions in the committee and waits impatiently for something to fall out of the sky. Their president also publicly urged the opening of the academic year to create a statute for students wishing to undertake. Anne De Paepe, rector of Ghent University, also asks the government for such a statute. She rightly points out that we must not forget that this entrepreneurial generation is Belgium's economic future. UNIZO itself proposed a statute not long ago. Meanwhile, our driven students stay in the cold. That's an absurd situation. Do you, the majority, actually talk to each other or don't you? Apparently, the file was carried by everyone. Everyone takes steps, so to speak, to offer a solution to the many student entrepreneurs. If you really want to see the issue regularly, quickly help the student entrepreneurs and provide an incentive in entrepreneurship. You don't want it, you can't or you can't?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u191	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u192	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Willy Demeyer, Eric Thiébaut, Nawal Ben Hamou, Emir Kir, Daniel Senesael. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this bill be rejected. (1548/3) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (1548/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is convinced by the model of a police force strongly rooted in society and guided by the general interest. We believe that citizens, without discrimination, should benefit from a police that is close and available in case of need and that everyone should know their neighbourhood agent. That's why I pleaded for a strengthening of the neighbourhood function, which is unfortunately the poor parent of the police function. I would like here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to stress the contradiction in the attitude of the majority. I heard you, colleagues from the N-VA, the MR, the CD&V and the Open Vld, saying that you shared the observation of the importance of neighbourhood work and that you were aware of the difficulty experienced by the areas in attracting and retaining quality candidates for community policing. I know that, among you and in all groups, there are mayors who know the reality of the field, who know that most of the time – including terrorism – is at the local level that the essential information is collected. These colleagues are informed of the problem of image and remuneration which affects the function of neighbourhood, a problem pinned by all the reports of the CPPL, the Inspectorate General and the Federal Police Council. What have you done to solve the problem, however, except, as our chairman has just pointed out, to reject in committee the proposal before you today? What did you do for the local police? You've decided to reduce the resources in the police areas. You chose to limit the recruitment of police officers. It took the attacks in Paris for the standard of engagement to be reviewed. Meanwhile, a structural deficit has been created on the ground. Moreover, police schools are unable to catch up with this delay. Police areas are under pressure, as is the neighbourhood function. It can even be said that the local police are in an unprecedented state of subordination. Hypothecated capacity is used systematically, while areas have to grapple on functions, especially on the neighbourhood function. It is even possible, we are told, that endowments to police areas may be reduced if the hypothecized capacity cannot be activated, as the minister requests. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that is before you is intended to rebalance the entire police function that is currently claudicating as a result of the savings measures. You have an opportunity here to improve an essential link in the prevention, in the fight against terrorism, of an essential link for police operation. This is a targeted upgrading of the neighbourhood function, which is currently the only one not benefiting from the premium system. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will not camp on the positions expressed in committee and that you will return to your rejection. It may be a pious wish, but I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u194	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u195	At the request of the chairman of the Committee on Justice, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the 1992 Income Tax Code on second-line legal assistance, No. 637/1, to be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget for its opinion. At the request of the Chair of the Justice Committee, I propose that you refer the bill back (MM. Raf Terwingen and Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to allowances for second-line legal aid, No 637/1, to the Committee on Finance and the Budget for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u196	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law of Mrs Els Van Hoof amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in the field of foodstuffs and other products as regards the advertising, sale and packaging of tobacco products (No. 1891/10), - the draft law of Mrs Els Van Hoof amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in the field of foodstuffs and other products as regards tobacco products containing added flavourings and additives (No. 1900/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u197	- the draft law of Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mr Roel Deseyn amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the system of tax exemption from contributions by the employer to employees for their individual health insurance (No. 1892/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u198	- the draft law of Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois amending the law of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, laying down rules on the costs of default (No. 1898/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u199	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - Mrs Van Hoof's proposal for a law amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers with regard to foodstuffs and other products with regard to the advertising, sale and packaging of tobacco products (No 1891/1); - Mrs Van Hoof's proposal for a law amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health with regard to foodstuffs and other products with regard to tobacco products with added flavourings and additives (No 1900/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u200	- the bill of Messrs. Stefaan Vercamer and Roel Deseyn amending the Income Tax Code 1992, as regards the tax exemption scheme for employers' reimbursements of premiums to workers for their individual sickness insurance (No 1892/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u201	- the bill of Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois amending the Act of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, setting out the penalties which may be claimed (No 1898/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u202	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u203	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 5 August 1978 on economic and budgetary reforms relating to automatic retirement after days of absence due to illness, No. 1880/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 5 August 1978 on economic and budgetary reforms with regard to the compulsory retirement after days of absence due to illness, No. 1880/1 was introduced. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. First, I give the floor to the government for the motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bacquelaine has asked me to express the motivation as follows. The draft law was agreed during the budget conclave of April 2016. The measure would enter into force by 1 July 2016. If I am not mistaken, the draft was discussed and approved yesterday in Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs. A vote in plenary session would therefore be scheduled for the end of June 2016, so that the publication of the law can be achieved by 30 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u205	I would suggest that we take a decision on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u206	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 8 June 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 8 June 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 149/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 149/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u207	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u208	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 2. (1825/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 2. (1825/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1825/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1825/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u210	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. (1484/10) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. (1484/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1484/11) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1484/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 137 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1831/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1831/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u213	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 12(n). (1753/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 12(n). (1753/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 48 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 82 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1753/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1753/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (477/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (477/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u216	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 82 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1834/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1834/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1835/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1835/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1850/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1850/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1852/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1852/4) (Mr Hendrik Bogaert voted in favour)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (682/14) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (682/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u221	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1809/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1809/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1861/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1861/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u223	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 83 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1715/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1715/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u224	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 83 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1548/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1548/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-16-54-plenair-ip115x.u225	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 23 June 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 23 June 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 23 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
