ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u1	Colleagues, we have a lot of questions on the agenda. I will therefore ask you to be precise and concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u2	You can count on my accuracy and a slight amplitude, Madam President. Minister, over the past few years, various studies have highlighted the interest of hypnosis in many clinical situations, such as pain management, treatment of phobias, depression or other health problems where psychosomatic processes play an important role. In addition, hypnosedation is also increasingly being used. This anesthesia technique combines hypnosis, very small amounts of painkillers and a local anaesthetic of the operating site. Avoiding general anaesthesia, it allows for faster postoperative recovery. Currently, it appears that the profession of hypnotherapist is not protected and its access is not legally regulated. It is therefore possible for anyone to self-proclaim hypnotherapist, as can be seen from simple research on the web. So we can fear drifts that can harm patients. Indeed, in the absence of a solid baggage for the management of these, hypnotherapy, if misuitilized, could cause psychological damage. Minister, how do you look at hypnotherapy? Have recent studies been conducted on this practice? What is the result of these studies? Could you tell us what is happening to this profession today in terms of regulation? Given the development of this practice, would it not be necessary to frame it in the way that was done under the previous legislature for psychotherapists?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u3	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, thank you for this question concerning hypnotherapists. Neither hypnosis nor hypnosis is a medical or health discipline within the meaning of our legislation on the exercise of health professions, such as, for example, the Act of 10 May 2015. In recent years, no advisory body established under the Act has issued any opinion on this matter. There is no scientific evidence for this type of care, nor for any related actions. I would like to point out that hypnosis and hypnosis are not provided for in the Act of 4 April 2014 on mental health care professions and that I have no intention of adapting this law in the way you suggest. I would also point out that, as I have already said, since there is no scientific basis for this practice, a doctor applying this technique cannot invoke therapeutic and diagnostic freedom. In the event that a health care professional applies this type of technique, he or she must then respect the principles of the Law on the Rights of the Patient and take it into account in his or her approach to the patient. This implies, at least on the basis of his general duty of care, that he must indicate the absence of any scientific evidence to the patient and make it clear to him that this is not part of the field of health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for this very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u5	Madam Secretary, my question dates from the end of April. The Socialist Mutualities called for a more critical review of the invoices of doctors, hospitals and dentists. In 2015, the sickness fund recovered no less than 400 000 euros following errors. That's a considerable amount of money. The most common error is that of the time-barred invoices. While the cost of medical care expires after two years, hospitals still often send invoices that are time-barred. The patient pays because he or she is not aware of that rule. However, the patient is always entitled to that information. Another reason why there is often wrong billing is because the rates for interventions are not clear. There are a lot of similar interventions with different rates, causing a lot of confusion. Healthcare network would make efforts this year to shorten the list of health insurance and thus make it easier. What initiatives have been taken to address the problem of long-term invoices? Is there a better communication with the patient about the expected cost of a medical procedure? Are you prepared to make the rates for interventions simpler and clearer? Is there going to be a consultation with Zorgnet about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u6	You refer to the limitation period in accordance with Article 2277a of the Civil Code. The action brought by providers in respect of medical benefits in kind, services and goods provided by them, including the claim for additional costs, shall be subject to a period of two years from the end of the month in which they were provided. This provision shall apply to medical benefits in kind, services, goods and ancillary costs supplied or invoiced by the nursing and care institutions or by third parties. Also a statute of limitations invoice can still be paid as a performance of a natural commitment. Furthermore, in some circumstances there may be plausible reasons for late delivery of an invoice, in particular where there is, for example, a problem with the patient's insurability or where invoices need to be revised due to a new regulation, which may or may not enter into effect retroactively. Moreover, from the point of view of enforcement, the period of civil limitation is not important, but the much shorter period for issuing such invoices is entered in the compulsory health insurance. Article 53 of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits provides that the health care provider must deliver or transmit such documents or data as soon as possible and at the latest within a time limit fixed by the King. An administrative fine of EUR 25 to 250 shall be imposed for any infringement of that obligation by the healthcare professional. Article 1 (1) of the Royal Decree of 19 May 1995 implementing Articles 53 and 168 provides that certificates of assistance or equivalent documents are to be issued within two months of the end of the month in which the benefits in kind were provided. Pursuant to the procedure described in the above KB, the Administrative Control Office of the RIZIV is empowered to make findings and impose sanctions if the two-month period is not respected. According to the 2014 Annual Report of the Administrative Control Service, 15 fines were imposed on healthcare providers for a total amount of EUR 16 850 for late delivery of documents in that year. Many measures have already been taken to increase transparency on the financial implications of hospitalisation and to improve the readability of hospital bills. For example, the hospital must submit a record to the patient, provide a list of the cost of various goods and deliveries and organise a central point of contact to answer patients' questions regarding the invoice. Of course, all this gives only an indication of the expected cost. Some believe that the introduction of a specifications can provide a solution, but others say that there are practical objections to this. Having said that, I have been aware of initiatives taken by some insurance institutions and hospitals to inform patients of the expected cost of certain interventions. The insurance institutions do so on the basis of information a posteriori, hospitals following pre-operative investigations. Finally, I am always prepared to support simplification, but the tariff discussions are taking place in the context of the consultation model and will therefore have to be discussed there. Also in the context of the review of hospital funding there is a continuous consultation with the hospital domes, where on the Flemish side Zorgnet-Icuro is actually alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u7	I agree with that last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u8	Madam President, Minister, we have spoken on several occasions about reducing medicine training from seven to six years, leading to a double cohort in 2018. We know that this one-off, special situation will raise a number of specific problems, first and foremost with regard to sufficient and high-quality traineeships. In previous answers to this question, you referred to a separate committee which was set up and which developed a plan of approach to this complex problem in consultation with the Supreme Court of Medical Specialists and GPs. That plan would also be tested by all those involved. You also referred, among other things, to a targeted investigation into the location of unsolicited or unutilised placements. In addition to the issue that will arise in 2018, I believe that this also offers an opportunity, perhaps with regard to specialties for which the number of candidates is currently too low. Madam Minister, what is the state of play of this plan of action and the work of that separate committee? Are there any concrete proposals? If so, can you explain it already? Has there been any consultation with those involved? What's the result of it? How's the internship research coming along?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, the reduction in the duration of study in medicine to six years does indeed give rise to a double cohort of graduates. This is a one-time event that extends over the duration of the professional internship of the graduating doctors, ranging from three to six years of training, in which there is a double cohort for one year. The increase and also the overrun of quotas, on the one hand, and the extension of professional training to qualified general practitioners for three years, on the other, are additional elements which we must take into account. The general practitioner in training will also have to be in hospital for six months. The analyses comparing the predicted demand for placements with the predicted or potential supply are further refined and updated. After all, this is constantly evolving. The number of applications for and recognition of traineeships is increasing. Currently, for many disciplines, the number of recognised placements is not fully filled, implying that there is currently an underutilisation of existing capacity. Parameters for the detection of potential internships will be further investigated. In particular, the volume and variation of pathologies in hospitals, the medical staff present and the training experience are of course extremely relevant. On the basis of the prevalent pathologies, with all the necessary nuances given the inherent limitations and necessary simplifications of such analyses, the reserve of responsible but not yet applied for placements will be examined. Other points of interest are the following. First of all, the quality of professional training must always be guaranteed. In other words, the recognition of new internship services must be in accordance with existing quality requirements, as laid down in the regulation. Secondly, the internships and the services can be motivated to improve capacity, but in the end they always decide on this, taking into account the local opportunities for quality guidance. In order to facilitate this on the ground, I provided for a new budget of EUR 10 million for the reimbursement of internships in non-university hospitals, since so far there was no financial support for training, unlike university hospitals and the professional training of general practitioners, for which a financing mechanism already exists. Several initiatives are being taken to adapt the general recognition criteria for doctors-specialists, internships masters and physiotherapists. This should also facilitate. The current Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014 already provides opportunities for more scientific research, more extramural internships and foreign experience during professional training. In reply to my question, the Supreme Court of Medical Specialists and GPs advised, among other things, that the conditions of seniority should be relaxed for internships and staff members. At present, there is a minimum seniority of eight years for the internships. If we were to lower the deadline a little bit, there would probably be more scope. That question was asked. Support measures, such as the formation of additional internships and the internship team, are also being examined. Finally, I should like to inform you that the High Council of Medical Specialists and GPs is very much involved in this dossier and that I have already had several contacts with the representatives of the students in medicine. All in all, this is a big job. I think we should not take measures in one area, but in different areas. After all, we have two problems. First we have a year with a double cohort and they pass through, but the year after that there are none. We must avoid fluctuations in internship services and be inventive. One might have to do research first, the other after that. In this way, we can ensure continuity of internship services. Everyone talks about the double cohort, but after that there will be something important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I've heard you mention a lot of things that can contribute. It is a very good thing that a budget of EUR 10 million has been provided for non-university hospitals. There is a logic that the internships there are now supported. The relaxation of the seniority condition is certainly also a piste, although the balance between quality and proper, good guidance must be preserved. I assume this will be investigated. You have also mentioned foreign internships, as we have already done in the past. I'm sure I'm hearing good things. I assume the committee you spoke of is still running. The question remains: are we there or are we not yet there? The committee may examine the implementation of the proposals or the updating of the need. It can continue that calculation for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u11	Now that the internships are being refilled, we will have a better picture. That must be constantly adjusted so that we know at the moment how many graduations and where they are going, which internships are being filled and where there are still possibilities. That depends on two things. On the one hand, there is the choice of graduates. We know, for example, that the places on geriatrics are not filled out. And there are still disciplines that are not filled out, because they do not go there against their will. On the other hand, the internship teacher must determine whether the quality of the student is sufficient. It already happens that some places are not filled out simply because one expects a certain skill. It's the internship master who has to determine that with all his expertise. We cannot compel him to fill in certain places.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you again for the explanation. As you rightly suggest, there are already tension fields today, even without the double cohort. It will indeed be important to keep a close eye on the situation that year, and the year after that, and to ensure that students are given the same opportunities. They should not be disadvantaged by the fact that the training is being reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u13	For some courses there are already more candidates than internships. For popular directions such as pediatrics, gynecology and internal medicine, there are always many more candidates and the selection is made by the internship master, who determines a sequence. One cannot necessarily start at the university where one has graduated. That is already a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u14	I think Mrs Fonck will be absent today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, heart failure is, as you know, a serious and progressive chronic disease caused by the heart's inability to act as a pump. On the occasion of the European Cardiac Insufficiency Day, various associations wanted to remind us, at a meeting I attended a few weeks ago in this Parliament, that more than 200 000 Belgians are now suffering from this disease and that 15 000 new cases are detected each year, almost 40 new cases a day. As its impact increases with age, the aging of our population will have a significant impact on these numbers, which will undoubtedly increase in the coming years. This is clearly a public health problem that needs to be addressed in the best possible way, both for patients and for the health care budget. Moreover, despite the prevalence of this disease, it is also significant to highlight the very low level of knowledge of heart failure among the general public. Indeed, only one in four Belgians knows and understands today what heart failure is and one in ten Belgians cannot cite any risk factors. During the meeting in which I attended, the speakers pointed out various elements to be the focus of our attention: the prevention and early detection of heart failure, its multidisciplinary management, but also the education of the patient and his family, as well as the training of all the health professionals concerned. Minister, are you also of the opinion that the problem of heart failure will only get worse in the coming years? Do you consider it a real public health problem? Have any recent studies been conducted in our country on this issue? Are you planning to take concrete initiatives to improve the management of patients with heart failure, but also to improve the financial accessibility of care in this context? If so, can you tell us more about them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u16	Minister, I am making the same observation and I am asking the same questions as Mr Frédéric. I'm not going to repeat them. Nevertheless, I have been investigating a little to better understand these realities and to be able to complete the questions. My supplementary questions include cardiology services in hospitals. In all three regions, nursing follow-up units have been set up to support these patients in the essential changes they need to make to their lifestyle and to improve the follow-up of their treatment. This one is quite logically experienced as heavy, since there are several medications per day, weekly or monthly visits to their general practitioner, visits to the cardiologist, etc., and physical activity, therefore everything they have to do. However, the lack of awareness of the symptoms of this disease and its impact on daily life is such that the care of the patient is complicated. According to my information, more than 50% of hospitalizations could be avoided by better planning hospital discharges and by proper monitoring of patients. What measures do you intend to take in this regard? The support of post-hospital monitoring and structured and multidisciplinary collaboration centres with primary care actors is crucial. Is this dimension integrated into the ongoing work programme on hospital funding and/or chronic disease treatment? The European Cardiology Society has made recommendations at level A. This means that they should be automatically transposed by the Member States. However, it seems that this is not the case in Belgium. A patient association formed and asked to meet with you a year ago, but it has not yet received an answer. Why? Is this an impossibility in terms of agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u17	Mr Frédéric, Mrs Gerkens, as you point out, the ageing of our population will have a significant impact on the prevalence of heart failure, which will undoubtedly increase in the years to come. Cardiovascular diseases are already among the most common chronic diseases in our country, as in most industrialized countries. You are aware that the comprehensive plan for integrated care for people with chronic conditions has been in place since the beginning of this year. The dimensions of prevention and early detection, multidisciplinary care, the education of the patient and his/her family, the training of the health professionals you cite are among the various components identified as necessary for the development of an integrated care of these people. However, they are not specific to the problem of heart failure, but are, for the most part, essential in the management of any chronic condition. This is why the above-mentioned plan aims to shift from an approach that is too focused on pathology and to instil in health professionals, but also in patients, their entourage and the population as a whole, another way of seeing and thinking about our health system. It is not just a question of treating a disease, but of acting together to improve the quality of life of patients, to keep as much as possible a healthy population. In this context, financial access to care is obviously important. Nor can we lose sight of sociological, economic and cultural factors, which may limit access to or use of care, whether preventive or curative. The first 16 pilot project proposals to develop this new approach were announced at the end of June 2015. They were examined in particular in terms of their ability to meet the needs of prevention and early detection, multidisciplinary care, education of the patient and his/her family, etc. We are now taking as many support measures as possible to support and carry out these projects. Thanks to these, we hope to be at the initiative of the change of approach that you are suggesting. In addition, the Interdepartmental Conference of 21 March 2016 concluded a Memorandum of Understanding on Prevention. Among the themes included in this agreement are the fight against smoking, alcohol and unhealthy nutrition, which are the primary causes of heart failure. The thematic working groups begin in September 2016. It is impossible for my services to have direct contact with each of the patient associations in Belgium. It is estimated that there are about 650 different known organizations. There are others, and every month new organizations are formed. Meetings with the firm have taken place several times in the development of the policy on integrated care for chronic patients, but they have been organised by the LUSS and Vlaams Patientenplatform associations. They are consulted on a regular basis at each stage. On the other hand, associations of chronic patients such as those with heart failure can still participate in the integrated care pilot project. As for the European recommendations, they obviously formed the basis for the type of project that has been developed for the treatment of chronic patients. All the ministers concerned proposed the integrated route. There was MM. Prevot, Gosuin, Vandeurzen and I, as well as many members of the federal and federal entities. This is very important given the aging of our population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Maybe you didn't get them, but they had the opportunity to organize a symposium in parliament. We helped them, by the way. While all parliamentarians were invited, there were two of us present, but it's no big deal. The important thing is that the message passes. I think you are on the right track and I invite you to continue to be extremely attentive to it. I would like to insist on one element. At this conference, all practitioners informed us of the general public's lack of awareness of this heart failure problem. They really stressed the need to implement programmes in this area, even though this responsibility is shared among all levels of government. In any case, it is necessary to raise awareness of the problem because it often happens that adequate care is missed because of the lack of awareness of the problem. Having said that, I do not hide from you that I do not have your medical training. I'm just a training teacher. But I discovered the importance of the problem and the number of people involved in this country at this conference. In my view, if any further efforts are to be made, it is in the area of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u19	Minister, I have had the opportunity to have contacts with patients, doctors and nurses. I have been struck by the fact that the latter also point to this lack of awareness of the problem and the consequences on the lives of people with heart failure who need rest, who are experiencing difficulties in terms of rhythm. In other words, here we are talking about a whole series of aspects of the daily lives of these people. In the above-mentioned contacts, the emphasis was also on prevention. It is essential to have measures and policies to avoid certain problems. But when a person has had an accident and is in a situation of heart failure, it is also necessary for them to be able to benefit from an accompaniment in connection with the first line. Of course, this is part of integrated management. Still, this disease is not well known and those interested are asking for greater involvement and mobilization around the patient because what happens to the patient is difficult to cope with. The provision of nurses in connection with general practitioners and specialist services should therefore be strengthened and upgraded. The existence of platforms and many patient associations is a good thing. However, when it comes to diseases that are not well known, they should be able to benefit from privileged contacts so that they can be integrated into more collective and organised dynamics. In other words, these associations should have a slightly more specific capacity in terms of intervention or reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u20	Madam President, I also had a question about heart failure; it is strange that it was not added.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u21	I don't have it in the list of questions. You should have drawn my attention, reported it to me first. Did you drop it off late?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u22	No, that question was on the agenda of the previous meeting, but my colleague says that she should normally have been discussed last week and that she was converted into a written question. However, I have still not received an answer to that question concerning the definition of heart failure. So I'm still waiting for the answer. It's not supposed to be set, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u23	If it has been transformed into a written question since last week, in principle, the answer should come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u24	When a question is transformed, it is necessary to request the translation again. If it is a written question, it must be introduced in both languages. For the publication in the Bulletin of Questions and Answers, we must also translate them into French. If, on the other hand, you ask me a question, I will only answer it in Dutch. The answer is then ready. In the case of a written question, however, we must submit the answer to the services and your question must be translated into French.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u25	Can the Member receive the answer in his own language?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u26	It goes through the secretariat. Normally, we send them in at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u27	No member of the committee has already received an answer to the converted questions from the committee meeting of 21 June 2016, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u28	That was a very late question. The answers have all left in the meantime. However, we have not been able to let them leave the day itself. They left us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u29	So they've already left you. I wonder where they are. After all, the services report that they have not received anything yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u30	They're in translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u31	Mrs. Van Camp, my administration is one of the most questioned administrations. My associates are doing everything they can. From now on, however, there are employees on holiday and others have to cover for them. We are constantly under pressure from the administrations and the directors, who tell us that they must employ a certain number of staff. That is the right of Members of Parliament. We are on the line here. However, we are asking for some understanding for holidays, for cases of illness and for administrations that are overloaded by reforms, savings and in my case by parliamentary questions that are in number du jamais vu.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u32	Normally, it's going faster than this time, but here's the thing, there's also congestion at times and so, since this morning, we've been trying to see where some of the issues have gone. It was not placed on today's agenda because it was turned into a written question at the last meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u33	Madam Minister, I had already questioned you on January 26th. The agreed deadline for transposition of the Directive expired on 18 January this year. I recognize the complexity of this issue with respect to the status of nurses. At the risk of repeating myself, investment in the training of our nurses is essential to reduce mortality due to nosocomial infections, as well as to improve hospital and extra-hospital care in general. The evolution of health needs and the context of care requires high-level competencies for an autonomous and responsible professional nursing exercise in application of the competencies described in Directive 2013/55. At the macroeconomic level, it has been demonstrated that public health can benefit greatly from high-level training in the upstream nursing sector, and from budgetary spin-offs and economies of scale at the downstream INAMI level. You have a professional profile and skills of the nurse in charge of nursing as determined by the Federal Council of Nursing of April 1, 2015, which has identified eight expected professional skills. The vast majority of professional associations representing the nursing sector and the world of higher education in nursing, in order to respond as closely as possible to the requirements of the Directive, first, for the introduction of a single title for the training of nurse-bachelier, so that it can be approved for general care, and second, for the introduction of a single title as a qualified intermediary, which can meet the criteria of the Directive for a higher certificate of vocational training. However, according to the information provided to me, you would be in favour of keeping the two training streams for nurses in order to obtain the same professional title as a general care nurse, apparently supporting the situation in the north of the country, in hospitals and nursing homes. Let me observe a certain question to be made to apply European standards in national law in the light of a vision which corresponds to that of one of the two major linguistic communities in the country. If you are asking, as you stated on 26 January, for the Communities to comply with the criteria of the Directive and to ensure that new graduates meet the criteria laid down by the European Union, the Federal State must also comply with the Directive, and in this case adapt the regulatory framework for access to the nursing profession by reserving the title of nurse responsible for general care only to graduates holding a bachelor's degree and creating a qualified intermediary title. The question is not to call into question the work done or the qualifications of healthcare workers or nurses who have obtained a diploma in vocational education, but to adapt our regulatory framework for the practice of the profession of nurse in this field, to the training and quality of care requirements laid down by the European Union and by scientific studies. Beyond this, you are aware, Madam Minister, that under Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, is in a position to bring to justice a Member State which fails to fulfil its obligations under Union law. We are now five months after the expiry of the deadline and penalties will be imposed on the Belgian State if it fails to fulfil its obligations, hence the subject of my inquiry today, because it would be particularly harmful for our country to be pinned on this detail and above all not to comply with the requirements of the directive in terms of content. When I asked you in January, you were waiting for the opinion of the section of the legislation of the Council of State on the draft royal decree transposing the directive approved in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, can you let me know what the current state of the procedure for transposing the directive is? What is the option you have chosen at the level of the training courses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Caprasse. As regards the current state of the procedure for transposing the 2013 European Directive No 55 of 20 November 2013, amending Directive 2005/37 on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation No 1024 of 2012 on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system, the draft royal decree and the draft ministerial decrees concerned have been adapted following the opinions of the Council of State on this matter. The draft royal decree passed before the Council of Ministers for a second reading for approval, after which we can proceed to the signing and publication of the texts in the Belgian Moniteur. With regard to the option chosen at the level of training courses, it is not up to me to decide at what level or in which field nurses should be trained. The European Directive allows Member States to organise training both at professional, higher and university level, knowing that the organisation of education is a Community competence in Belgium. At the last Interministerial Conference on Public Health on 21 March, I reminded the ministers of the federated entities, Ms Joëlle Milquet – still Minister of Education at the time with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation – and Mrs Crevits, that the only requirement I had was to specify which nurse training courses met the directive and to ensure that the diplomas of these training courses had all the skills expected by Europe. I will continue to consult with the federated entities in order to ensure the proper implementation of the directive. You know that they have not yet agreed, but, for my part, all the requirements of the European Commission must be met both in terms of quality and in terms of the mobility of nurses in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u35	Minister, I see that you are moving in the right direction. The nursing community is waiting for positive responses and it would be time for this to be standardized at the federal level. Nevertheless, I would like to table a motion referring to the two requests listed in my presentation to the Chair in order to confirm our request and move in the direction that is desired by all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u36	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Véronique Caprasse and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Véronique Caprasse and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the federal government adapt as soon as possible our regulatory framework for the practice of nursing to the training and quality of care requirements laid down by the European Union and scientific studies, and therefore: - to reserve access to the profession of nurse in charge of general care for new graduates of bachelor's and nursing degrees and to determine a single qualification as a bachelor's degree, corresponding to the European title responsible for nursing; - to establish another single title as a qualified intermediary meeting the European criteria of the higher vocational training certificate." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Véronique Caprasse and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Véronique Caprasse and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the federal government adapt our regulatory framework for the exercise of nursing as soon as possible to the training and quality of care requirements laid down by the European Union and to which scientific studies decide, and consequently: - to reserve access to the profession of nurse responsible for general care to the bachelors in nursing and to introduce one professional bachelor's degree in nursing, which corresponds to the European title 'general nurse responsible'; - introduce one other professional title of qualified intermediary, which meets the European criteria for a higher professional qualification.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Messrs. Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry. A simple motion was tabled by Miss Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Damien Thiéry. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Question No 11617 by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question. The same applies to Question No 11624 by Mr Daniel Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u37	Madam President, Madam Minister, in her recent report on the management of dental care in Belgium, the Court of Auditors notes that reimbursement expenses for dental care are increasing continuously over a period of ten years, while studies show that certain population groups have a worrying level of oral health and that demand for dental care remains abnormally low in some places. This is obviously an inquisitive observation which needs to be answered quickly. To improve the accessibility, quality, safety and rational use of dental care, the Court recommends, among other things, that an action plan be developed for a defined period of time with dated, specific and measurable objectives. In this context, the Court asks, inter alia, for a re-evaluation of the nomenclature on the basis of a scientific dossier in order to encourage accession to the dental-mutualist agreement and thus compliance with the agreed tariffs. It also suggests improving the accessibility of reimbursable dental care, including certain routine care with age limits, which is severely affecting disadvantaged patients. It calls for greater publicity of the professional status of the dentist on his professional plate and for the display of fees fixed by the nomenclature in the waiting rooms. Finally, the Court recalls the need to implement the social paying third party, while controlling the risks of overconsumption and fraud. Minister, have you read this audit of the Court of Auditors? What is your opinion on the findings? Do you intend to take concrete steps to respond to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? If so, on what points could you move forward? How long are improvements possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u38	Mr Frédéric, the Court of Auditors' report on the reimbursement of dental care has caught my full attention. My reply to the Court of Auditors is included in the report in Annex 3. I congratulated them on their excellent report. I have asked the senior officials of INAMI and the President of the National Dento-mutualist Commission to come up with proposals for improvement. In my policy statement, I expressed my willingness to have a stronger policy based on health objectives. Indeed, it is essential that the basic values of the system be translated into concrete objectives and that action taken be taken where improvements are required. The Court of Auditors' report also goes in this direction and makes it possible to focus on the points that need to be taken into account in order to achieve a better treatment of these dental services. On 23 June 2016, the National Dento-Mutualist Commission examined in detail the 23 recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. As a result of these discussions, measures may be considered to improve the management and performance of the dental reimbursement system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that an awareness is being made and that foundations are being laid. Attention should be paid to their implementation in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u40	Madam Minister, we have already discussed this when we discussed alcohol in this committee. The person in your cabinet who was here at the time said that she would let you talk about the content of the evaluation report. You already have, and apparently there are things that have already been known, but you haven't told us everything yet. I therefore ask you about the content of the evaluation report of the agreement on alcohol control. Your co-worker said you already have that report in the meantime. Is there any extra distraction from this with a view to additional measures? Can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u41	The Federal Public Health Service has indeed drawn up a document examining certain aspects of the functioning of the existing Alcohol Agreement. That's an internal document. The issue is the subject of consultation with my fellow ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, since this is not just my competence. A thorough scientific analysis of the alcohol advertising measures, including the functioning of the Alcohol Agreement, is therefore carried out by the Federal Science Policy (Belspo). The results are expected in mid-2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u43	Madam Secretary, seven out of ten young people drink alcohol when they go out. Minister Vandeurzen replied to a question in the Flemish Parliament about the research of the Association for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems that 22 percent of the participants in the study combined alcohol with one or more illicit drugs in the last year. Six percent would do that regularly. These are, of course, only Flemish figures. There is a problem with the combination of alcohol with GHB or ketamine, which present additional risks to health. In practice, there would be a problem of life-threatening overdoses. Does the Public Health Office have relevant figures? How often do young people get hospitalized when they combine drugs and alcohol? Does the FAGG have an overview of the use of GHB and/or ketamine in Belgium, whether or not combined with alcohol? What are the maximum doses to avoid an additional risk to health? From when can we speak of life-threatening overdoses? Does the federal government take measures to avoid that combination? You had twelve extra young inspectors, who didn't notice, recruited at events at European Championships to monitor the sale of drinks to minors. Do these inspectors have time to pay attention to the combination of drugs and alcohol? What additional measures do you provide for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u44	Minimum hospital records show a slight increase in intakes characterised by a combination of alcohol and others between 2008 and 2013. These are the most recent figures, ranging from 214 to 256 a year. It's about the classic intakes or daily intakes of patients under 21 years of age. There are no codes in the minimum hospital data specific to addiction, abuse or poisoning by GHB or ketamine. The Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products does not have figures on the illegal use of GHB or ketamine, whether or not in combination with alcohol. GHB is medically used in narcolepsy with cataplexy. Ketamine is medically used as anesthetic in the human............................................................................................................................................................................................ There is no specific medicine for excessive intake of alcohol and ketamine. Treatment is particularly symptomatic, with special attention to respiratory and cardiac functions. Although the intake of ketamine with alcohol worsens the signs of respiratory and cardiovascular depression, death is rare as a result. There is a high variability in the toxicity threshold based on individual metabolism, weight, whether or not one has eaten, making it difficult to establish a limit. There is also no specific antidote for the combination of GHB with alcohol. GHB suppresses brain activity. Doses greater than 50 milligrams per kilogram are associated with respiratory system suppression, convulsions, coma and death. There is only a thin line between the euphoric effects of GHB and its possible lethal effects. When alcohol is taken at the same time, the risk increases greatly, especially as a result of the suppression of the central nervous system. Avoiding a combined use of alcohol and drugs is primarily a task for prevention, which falls within the competence of the Communities. Nevertheless, the recruitment of 12 additional auditors is ongoing and should be completed by 1 October. The audits of events in the context of EC competitions were carried out with the current framework of auditors. Now, as far as our country is concerned, it's over. As stated, the staffing capacity is being deployed smartly. Controls on the use or possession of drugs remain an exclusive task of the police. If tobacco and alcohol inspectors suspect the use or possession of drugs during their checks, they must contact the police because they do not have the authority to do so. As I have already said, measures to reduce the harmful use of alcohol are currently being discussed in a working group with all the competent authorities. In October, the final text will be presented to the Drugs thematic meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. I note, however, that there are no codes in the MKG to properly register. Perhaps it could be considered to include this and better map it, so that we could have the relevant data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u46	Minister, this issue is related to our bill, which was on the Orders of the Day this morning, on access to the following day's pills. The understandings and interpretations of the conditions of access to the next day's pills are so diverse that it is important that you specify through your response the following elements. Minister, is the next day's pill available without medical prescription, in both a pharmacy and a family planning centre? Is a medical prescription necessary for a young woman to be free of charge until the age of 21 or is it sufficient for her to show her identity card to the pharmacist? Are there any other indications that need to be taken into account? These are specific questions to clarify our discussions on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u47	Madam President, the next day's pill is delivered without medical prescription in a pharmacy. However, in order to benefit directly from the specific intervention of compulsory insurance, young women under 21 years of age must submit a medical prescription to the pharmacist. In the event that they do not have a medical prescription, these young women must pay the full price to the pharmacist and ask for a cash payment document, with which they can go to their insurer to obtain the specific intervention. This means that they still have immediate access, but the refund will be later. INAMI does not have jurisdiction over family planning centres. If they have the required health care providers, either a pharmacist or a doctor, the next day's pill may be made available legally. The organisation of family planning centres is, however, the responsibility of the Communities. The question of whether midwives can be used to prescribe contraceptives and the next day's pill has already been raised in this committee. In the meantime, the Conseil supérieur des médecins spécialistes et généralistes has delivered its opinion on the subject, and both the opinion of the Royal Academies de médecine de Belgique and that of the Conseil supérieur des médecins spécialistes et généralistes indicate, following an in-depth analysis, that the prescription of any contraceptive method, even outside the limited three-month period following the birth of a healthy woman, is clear from the competence of the doctors. Since emergency contraceptives contain the same molecule, this advice can be applied to the next day's pill. The working group on financing contraception for young people met on 11 March to examine data on the evolution of contraceptive use for the two full years following the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 laying down a specific intervention in the cost of contraceptives for women who have not reached the age of 21. The findings were presented to the Health Care Insurance Committee on May 2. In particular, during this period, the working group observed a steady decrease in the number of abortions and births among young women under 21 years of age; a slight decrease in the expenditure on contraceptives among the population of young women under 21 years of age; a tendency to shift from the use of short-term contraceptives to long-term contraceptives – i.e. implants and IUDs – a net increase in the use of IUDs, which have been reimbursed since the reform of reimbursement; a decrease in the use of third-generation pills since 2014, following safety warnings and, finally, a stable use of first- and second-generation pills. Overall, therefore, the evaluation of the reform of the reimbursement of contraceptives for young people is positive, particularly with regard to the influence on the use of IUDs. In addition, the working group made two concrete proposals for amendments. The first is to include the speciality Depo-Provera – which consists of injections – on the list of contraceptives for young people who meet the criteria for specific intervention. He then proposed extending the intervention provided for in the Royal Decree to outpatient delivery via the hospital pharmacy for long-term contraceptives, which were placed during the hospital consultation or visit to a gynaecologist or doctor. I have asked my administration to deepen and evaluate these two proposals, particularly from the point of view of budgetary impact, so that I can make an informed decision. It must also be said that the Depo-Provera is not ideal for everyone. I have always hesitated to use it because of its important side effects on young women. With respect to recommendations, I sought the advice of the administration on benefits and costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. A further step will have to be taken if there is no statute of limitations for minors. You answered my question in an ultra-complete manner, because you provided information on the bills. In this way, everyone will have access to the elements. It is interesting to see a positive development in this area: a decrease in the number of abortions and attraction for the IUD rather than for hormonal pills. Depo-Provera was systematically given to young women with disabilities. It was a "easy" way to give them a contraceptive that was worth three months. There was, of course, no concern about taking the pill, but the side effects were important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u49	They were, indeed, not negligible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u50	Consideration should be given to whether the recommendations target a particular population or whether they are more general.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u51	We will distribute your answer to the members of the committee. In this way, they will have the information they need to continue our work on the subject from the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u52	Madam Minister, we have talked on several occasions about the e-cigarette. In principle, the new rules for e-cigarettes would enter into force from 19 May 2016. The KB prescribed that the e-cigarette could be sold in ordinary shops and daily shops under very strict conditions. There were a number of strict conditions about the fillings, the number of milliliters and so on. There was also an obligation to register, which costs EUR 4 000, for SMEs or shops that wanted to sell the e-cigarette over the internet. The Council of State had a lot of reservations about this. If I understand correctly, the KB is suspended at the moment. According to British researchers and others, e-cigarettes are less harmful to health. They are also very clearly helping people to get rid of tobacco and there is no evidence that the e-cigarette encourages smoking. In some fillings there is nicotine, which sustains the addiction, but nicotine only maintains the addiction and certainly does not kill the e-cigarette. Tar in tobacco is deadly. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Why are you so strict with the e-cigarette? Does this have to do with the revenue from excise duties on tobacco which will fall or do you have other reasons? Do you follow the advice of the Council of State? What measures will you take? Will you, for example, drop or drop the registration requirement of EUR 4 000? Will a reformed KB enter into force? If so, what deadline do you envisage? Why do you not consider the e-cigarette without nicotine as a smoke stopper? It seems to me that quite a few barriers are now being created for the users of e-cigarettes. What measures will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u53	My question is the same in shortcut. How can we understand that the mandatory product-by-product notification for e-cigarettes is EUR 4 000, since apparently the sale is possible outside pharmacies, whereas it is EUR 125 per year for tobacco products? Two traders went to the Council of State. They won because of an amount deemed disproportionate. I would therefore like to know the reason for these amounts and the procedure that you are putting in place to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u54	Madam President, first of all, I should like to clarify a few things. I'm being accused of tying up the rules for the e-cigarette. That is not the case at all. I chose the least strict option, precisely because of the positive effects on public health if an e-cigarette was used instead of a cigarette. I also see in your question a certain process of intention. Why would I go to all this trouble to make the e-cigarette available as easily as possible if I didn't really want people to use it? That's the reverse world, isn't it? The truth is and remains that there is a European directive to be followed. That Directive was adopted on 3 April 2014. I had to transpose that directive into Belgian law. It's part of the rule of law. While that directive left an important choice, namely whether the e-cigarette can be sold in a shop or in a pharmacy, I chose the least strict option. I chose to let them in the shelves of shops as an alternative to the ordinary cigarette and not just sell them in the pharmacies. I've requested an opinion from the Supreme Health Council regarding the electronic cigarette. The debates between the experts were particularly animated. You can testify to that. However, a compromise was found that resulted in the opinion published in October 2015. The opinion is as follows: although the e-cigarette is much less harmful than the cigarette, it is not without danger. It is therefore appropriate to protect non-smokers from the consumption of this product. In addition, the e-cigarette can be a means to help some smokers stop. It is on this basis, as well as on the basis of Article 20 of the 2014 Directive, that a coherent proposal on the e-cigarette was drawn up. My services have amended the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 on the production and marketing of electronic cigarettes, taking into account the comments of the Council of State regarding the fee per notified product to be paid, as well as the date of entry into force. Once the amended decree has been published, this royal decree of 15 February will be replaced, the royal decree which has now been suspended by a court of law. Smoke-stop devices are considered medicinal products. It's about medication that we pay back, and pay back more than before. This requires a much heavier registration procedure. Among other things, its effectiveness should be demonstrated through clinical studies. A different choice was made during the negotiations on the 2014 European Directive. This means that electronic cigarettes are not qualified as tobacco withdrawal products, but also not as medicines. They are now being marketed on the basis of a law which is much less stringent than that for anti-smoking medicines. The new regulation being drafted clearly represents market liberalisation from the previous situation. These products may be sold in all types of trade to any consumer who wishes, with the exception of young people under 16 years of age, such as cigarettes. I therefore do not see how this should constitute protection for the tobacco industry. In my view, there is no reason to further reduce barriers for consumers. So I want the e-cigarettes to be next to the regular cigarettes. For the user it is important that both are associated with each other. If the consumer sees the electronic cigarette presented next to the tobacco products, he may think about quitting the tobacco and opting for an electronic cigarette. The approach is different today as he has to go to a pharmacy to acquire an electronic cigarette. Besides, it's not a drug. Why therefore book this type of product at pharmacies? That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. Your answer offers some clarification. You say that you have adapted or are adapting the Royal Decree and that in addition to the date of entry into force you will also change the costs of registration, which will be reduced in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u56	Yes, of course. The administration has formulated this proposal, and I follow it now. Since the increased cost was perceived as discrimination, an appeal was brought against it. We will now go to the reduced amount. It's 250, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u57	I got 125 for tobacco and 4,000...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u58	The amount has been drastically reduced in order to avoid appeals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u59	The fact that it is a drug and therefore requires more complicated registrations and procedures would justify the amount of 4,000?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u60	No, it's not a medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u61	So the 4,000 came from something else, not from that qualification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u62	Madam Minister, I had tabled a written question on this subject and I could see from the answer that the collection of braking money is taking place in all professions in all sectors, as required by law. The data provided to me included clinical biologists, doctors, physiotherapists, pharmacists and dentists. One sector was the exception to the rule, in particular home care. That's where the brake money turns out to be collected nowhere. In previous discussions there were still geographical differences, but it can be seen from the figures that in the home care sector the brake money is omitted everywhere and almost always. Overall, 0.5 % of costs come from brake fees. The brake charge is therefore collectively omitted. Are you aware of this problem, which means that home care on average misses a fifth of income? Do you have plans to remedy this and ensure that home nurses receive the wages they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u63	Indeed, Miss Van Camp, I am aware that a lot of home nurses, I don't think most of them collect the personal share, but that is a choice they have made and which has grown historically. We have nothing to do with that. They put forward various reasons for non-incorporation of the personal share in home care. For example, they do not want to increase the financial burden on vulnerable groups of patients. So the situation has grown historically, but there are also practical objections. For example, they say that the cost of collecting it is higher than the amount they have to pay. In any case, it has always been unclear to me why there is only one sector in which no brake charge is charged, in particular home care. GPs and physicists will do it. Everyone collects brake money. You say that they do not receive the reward they are entitled to. They're just entitled to that. They decide not to collect it. Then who am I to force them to collect it? The law says they're entitled to it. They decided not to collect it. That has grown historically. A competition? You say that, Mrs. Dedry, I don't know. In any case, they are entitled to do so and therefore have the right to collect it at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u64	Allow me not to find an answer to that. Mr van Groen is quite right to say that this is a matter of competitive pressure. At home care, this is often organised through an organisation. If one has to fight it as a self-employed person, it is simply impossible. It is certainly not the only sector where this has existed. For example, the clinical biologists and the kinesis have been an issue for a while. However, solutions have been sought for this, in the form of a legal anchoring and through an agreement at the mutual consultation. It seems to me that responsibility is being passed on here by saying that they are entitled to it and that they have to collect it; however, the reality referred to here is that the self-employed home nurses are facing very severe competitive pressure on the ground today. Our group believes that it is up to politics to provide solutions to this. It's a shame they're not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u65	I just want to say that this is part of the consultation, the Medicomut meeting. I don't have anything to say, nothing. I'm not worried about that at the table. That consultation is being conducted by my officials, but I'm not at the table with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u66	For the physicists, that is indeed the case in the Medicomut meeting. For the clinical biologists, however, it is indeed registered in the law. You could do the same in home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u67	For the clinical biologists, this is also part of the Medicomut meeting, Mrs Van Camp. That's definitely right there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u68	From an answer to a previous question, I understood that this was also really legally anchored for clinical biologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u69	Madam President, Minister, more and more health professionals (physicians, nurses, physiotherapists) are coming together to ensure patient continuity of care and multidisciplinary care. Today, more and more medical homes are being created. Overall, this is a positive development for both the patients and health professionals involved. In fact, as a patient, you have the opportunity to register in a medical home that has signed a lump sum payment agreement with your mutuality. It will then take care of your health in a comprehensive manner. If you opt for this system, you undertake, with very limited exceptions, not to consult any other providers other than those in the medical home. If you personally take the initiative, you will not be reimbursed for these benefits. The purpose of this measure is quite understandable: if the medical home receives a lump sum for the care of a patient, it is logical that our care system does not cover the services provided by other doctors for the same patient (unless clearly stated exceptions). This means, for a patient who has been followed by a physiotherapist and a general practitioner for several years, and whose general practitioner decides to associate with other doctors, physiotherapists and nurses, that he must agree to change his physiotherapist if he wishes to continue to be cared for by his general practitioner. Minister, do you consider that this situation raises questions in terms of respecting the patient's right to choose the providers who care for him, as long as the patient has to make a choice between following his general practitioner while at the same time having to change his physiotherapist or continue to be cared for by his physiotherapist while at the same time having to change his general practitioner? How best to reconcile the interest of health professional groupings with the freedom of choice of patient provider? Do you consider that this situation raises questions in terms of competition between health professionals grouped within an association (possibly a medical home) and health professionals who have decided not to join the association and are therefore likely to lose part of their patientele from the medical home?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u70	Mrs Matz, in reply to your question, it should first be pointed out that the conditions under which the beneficiaries of the insurance can register in a medical home are precisely defined in the Royal Decree of 23 April 2013 implementing Article 50 § 1 of the Law on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance and the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on Medical Homes. As far as the patient's free choice is concerned, there are specific provisions in the Royal Decree which organise this principle in a precise way. It is true that the beneficiary must register in the medical home of his or her choice, but he or she may still request that the registration be terminated. Article 17 of the Royal Decree is very clear in this regard. I quote: "Any beneficiary who enrols with a care provider or group of caregivers may denounce this registration before the end of each month and the registration expires at the end of the month following the month during which the notification was communicated to the insurer, care provider or group of caregivers". In addition, the order establishes a test system at the beginning of registration, which may be extended if deemed necessary by the beneficiary. Article 15 § 1, paragraph 5, stipulates that the beneficiaries of the medical home may grant benefits and collect fees for the purpose if these benefits are provided to the beneficiaries registered during the calendar month of registration. The beneficiary may, however, at the time of his first registration, request that the benefits be reimbursed in the act within a period of up to three months, which cannot be renewed. It is important to note that the provisions are also found in the Royal Decree, on which the Health Care Insurance Committee has given a positive opinion. Health professionals are represented on this committee. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that every agreement with a new individual medical home is submitted to the Committee for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u71	Minister, thank you for reminding you of certain principles. But this does not entirely answer the question I asked. Of course, we know how medical homes are organized. It turns out that a medical home, which started with only general practitioners, was told, several years later, that physiotherapy care will be included in their package. In practice, patients who have been followed, for example, for several months by their kine, or even more for older people who receive it daily, are asked to make a choice between their kine and their general practitioner. This may pose a problem in the patient's freedom of choice, as these new physiotherapy benefits were not initially provided by the medical home. From then on, people have a little knife under their throats. The purpose of my question was to determine whether, in your opinion, this did not contravene certain principles. You reminded me that, of course, the patient can leave the medical home. But if he leaves her, it means he leaves his general practitioner. We are always faced with a dilemma, where the patient has a choice between a kine and a general practitioner. This is a situation that we are living in my region. That really asks me. I'm a part of this medical home myself. I have no concern with the care provided. I have a problem with changing the rules along the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u72	On several occasions, I have already said that the free choice for the patient concerns each provider: doctor, kine, nurse, midwife. Every time, he has a free choice. It's not once, but every time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u73	In my case, two kines were hired as employees by the medical house. Patients are told to consult these kines or leave the medical home. That is what poses a real problem to me. They do not have the freedom to choose their kine, since they are told that if they want to stay in the medical home, they must resort to the kineers hired by the medical house. I have a problem with that. It seems to me that in this case they do not have the freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u74	Therefore, they can file a complaint because it is against freedom of choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u75	Even in a medical home?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u76	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u77	It would be worth questioning the Federation of Medical Homes. I would be surprised if she had not thought about such situations and that no provision was made for such cases. In this type of situation, how can we do, especially with older people, if they have to leave the claimant to whom they are accustomed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u78	This question is more important than that of the e-cigarette, I am aware of that. A doctor performing an euthanasia has a legal obligation to submit the registration form within four days, which consists of two parts and is anonymous. One part shall be sealed and only opened if there is doubt. A second general section contains specific questions, which the committee evaluates and checks. The registration form is very important and useful, but I think there are still shortcomings. A doctor shouldn't answer everything right now. He doesn't have to fill everything out. For example, he should not mention the institution where the euthanasia was carried out. The doctor must also record one diagnosis, and especially in the case of mental illness it is not always obvious. This is often a matter of multiple problems. Also the involvement of the palliative team is not registered. We do not know how many euthanasia questions have been answered, but have not been implemented in the end. In addition, it appears that not all the data recorded by doctors on the forms are also entered in the public administration database. Are you willing to adapt and improve the registration form for euthanasia? If so, do you see anything in the adjustments I have suggested? I am thinking in particular of mentioning the institution where the euthanasia application was made. For example, there was a problem recently in Diest, which the newspapers made. I am also thinking of mentioning the various diseases that lead to a diagnosis, and the involvement of the treatment team and the palliative team. Do you see bread in that? Why do we not know exactly how many euthanasia applications were granted, but in the end have not been carried out? It would facilitate the public debate on this difficult issue. Can we not register this in a more correct way? Finally, why is it that apparently not all the data that the doctors put in the file are included in the government database?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u79	Mrs Dedry, the registration of euthanasia is indeed important, but you are confusing a number of things. The euthanasia law of 28 May 2002 provides in Article 5 that the doctor who applied euthanasia shall send a fully completed registration document to the Federal Control and Evaluation Committee Euthanasia within four working days. First and foremost, you have questions about the nature of the registration document, but this is made up by the Euthanasia Audit and Evaluation Committee, not by the King or the Minister. The euthanasia law lays down in Article 7 (1) the information to be contained in the document. It is therefore the committee that can amend the registration document within that framework, unless, of course, the Chamber would decide to amend the euthanasia law on that point. The registration forms can be found on the website of the FPS Public Health and are of course in accordance with the law, both in terms of the collection of the necessary information, and in respect of the anonymity of doctors, patients and relevant institutions. How many euthanasia applications were granted, but ultimately not carried out? I would remind you that the law only entrusts the euthanasia committee with the control and evaluation of the euthanasia that has been applied. Those concerned make the application documents in order, but patients can change their mind until the last minute. This is also stated in the euthanasia law: the patient can change his application for euthanasia at any time, until the last moment. That was a very important point in the discussion. One can thus say until the last moment that one does not want euthanasia and that one wants nature to go ahead. The headings in Part II of the registration document are all included in the database. They form the basis for the statistics in the Commission's biennial report. Article 7 of the euthanasia law also lists them. These include characteristics of the patient, who may not be able to identify him or her, the nature of the condition and of the persistent and unbearable pain, the reasons why the suffering could not be remedied, whether a declaration of will has been drawn up and the status of the doctors consulted. It is indeed possible to give up different diagnoses. The Committee states that this is often the case. The data contained in Part I of the registration document shall not be reproduced. These are the data that provide information on the patient's name and place of residence, the name and address of the treating doctor, the doctors consulted, other persons consulted and, where appropriate, the details of any confidential persons appointed in a declaration of will. This is, of course, required to respect the anonymity and confidentiality of the declarations at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u80	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u81	Minister, both the WHO and the European Commission, as well as everyone here, are concerned about the misuse of antibiotics and the resistance of bacteria to these antibiotics. There is an alternative technique, phagotherapy, which consists of injecting natural viruses that will kill infections. This therapy was discovered during the First World War and developed in the 1920s and 1930s. So it's an old technique. These bacterial-eating viruses are called phages. Large quantities are found in nature or in the human body. They have a more limited action than antibiotics. They destroy only some strains of the bacteria and almost never cause side effects. Often, treatment is short and less expensive. This technique can increase the patient's chances of getting out of it, especially since it is not affected by the growing resistance of microbes to antibiotics. It is a French doctor, Professor Dublanchet, who is the initiator of the reintroduction of this therapy in France. He says it could be used in infections that affect bones and joints, but also in other infections: urinary, pulmonary, eye. In 2013, the European Union launched a first project called Phagoburn to test phages against resistant bacteria that attack the wounds of large burns. In Belgium, some patients are treated and have been cured by this technique, including the large burns at the Neder-Over-Heembeek hospital. Because they are big burns, it is considered that there is no alternative, but this therapy is not yet recognized as applicable in other situations. Large laboratories are not interested in this technique because phages come from nature and are not patentable. The profitability of investments is probably less than when they invent molecules. Neder-Over-Heembeek Hospital is undertaking research on phagotherapy and using this technique. Some patients who do not have access to it go to the former Eastern Block, where this method has not been abandoned. Minister, phagotherapy is a credible alternative to antibiotics. How do you support this technique? How do you frame it? What results have been obtained from clinical studies in Belgium to date? Can we consider a return to the legalization of phagotherapy? Is Neder-Over-Heembeek Hospital recognized and supported in its research in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u82	Minister, as you know, phage therapy uses phages, bacterial-eating viruses, which are found in very large quantities in nature or in the human body. It appears that this therapy could treat patients with antibiotic-resistant infections. Georgia is one of the few countries where phagotherapy is still offered. However, this treatment is now the subject of renewed interest, in a context where antibiotic resistance is increasing. Last November, WHO warned that if nothing was done to prevent the misuse of antibiotics or to find new molecules, the world would move towards "a post-antibiotic era in which, unfortunately, common infections could start killing again". It appears that phagotherapy may be a solution to infections that affect bones and joints, but also to other infections: urinary, pulmonary or eye. The advantage is that this therapy would almost never cause serious side effects in the body being treated. Treatment is usually short - two to three weeks - and much cheaper than antibiotics. However, its development is hampered by the lack of interest of large laboratories, because phages come from nature and are not patentable. Return on investment is therefore considered too low. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, the following questions. Have recent studies been conducted on the usefulness and efficacy of phagotherapy? What about this treatment in our country? Why is it not developed? Can it really be an effective response in a context where antibiotic resistance is growing? Finally, is there any idea how many patients could be affected by the use of this therapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u83	Colleagues, phagotherapy is obviously not practised in many hospitals. However, we believe that phages have a place in the therapeutic arsenal against infectious agents, without believing that they alone will provide a definitive response to the fight against bacterial diseases. In the short and medium term, phagotherapy will certainly not replace antibiotic therapy, either in Belgium or elsewhere. However, it has real potential for the treatment of certain infections and this potential should be exploited in a thoughtful manner. Mrs Gerkens, to date, there has been no clinical trial of phagotherapy medicinal products in Belgium. It is true, on the other hand, that bacteriophages were used for therapeutic purposes in a pilot study conducted in the burn centre at the Queen Astrid Military Hospital in Brussels, after approval by an ethics committee. No adverse reactions were reported at the end of this study. It should be noted, however, that this conclusion does not address the issue of effectiveness. In addition, these results should be considered with caution, as they were collected in a study that is not strictly a clinical trial. Previously, phagotherapy has not been specifically regulated. It is therefore not so much a return to legislation as a step towards legislation that is at stake here. There is a consensus in Europe that phage preparations are medicines. Rather, the regulatory difficulty lies in whether or not there are proprietary medicinal products or, on the contrary, masterful preparations. The difference is important since the former are subject to the constraints associated with the application for marketing and production authorisation according to the GMP, whereas the latter are not. In this case, the AFMPS has been quite creative in putting in place a regulatory procedure that will allow these two approaches to be reconciled pending a European solution that we wish. Belgium will be able to become a pioneer in this field. The design by the AFMPS of the Belgian regulatory system for the use of phagotherapy medicinal products is obviously carried out in consultation with the staff of the Neder-Over-Heembeek Military Hospital, in order to put in place a pragmatic approach that allows both concrete progress in the use of this therapy, while guaranteeing the quality and safety of these medicinal products in the hope of a demonstration of effectiveness. It's still a long way, but it's a very special research for our military hospital, which can be interesting and give new perspectives, not necessarily to replace antibiotics in any case. Patients treated with Neder-Over-Heembeek are obviously complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u84	Minister, these are complicated patients, particularly susceptible to infections. It's an interesting audience to talk about from that point of view. I am pleased to hear that Belgium also values its pioneering side. Neder-Over-Heembeek has developed this technique: laboratories exist in the hospital. I hope that we will allow them to develop and continue their research, obviously in connection with the European Union, and that this alternative can be developed in all pathologies where it can be useful. Even if, and here I am joining you, it will probably not be the miracle solution that will replace all antibiotics. But everything we can reduce as antibiotic use obviously reduces antibiotic resistance capabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u85	Madam Minister, I also welcome your answer, which is very much in line with a desire to reduce the use of antibiotics. It is true that the failure of antibiotics causes many deaths in Europe. We're talking about 25,000 deaths a year. It is estimated that this can increase to 10 million by 2050. It's a real challenge. We are pioneers in this area. It must be remembered that there are also more and more bacteria in what we eat, which accelerates this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u86	Madam President, Madam Minister, I think you have already been questioned on one or the other of these issues. In recent years, INAMI, Health Ministers and radiologists have been working together to reduce the number of scans and – most importantly – exposure to iatrogenic irradiation. Several campaigns have been launched, including the one entitled "no rays for no reason" – which is a pretty powerful campaign – in order to limit the number of unnecessary examinations. This decrease in the use of CT-scan results in an increase in MRI. Since the number of approved MRI machines is not sufficient, many hospitals carry out these tests with "grey" machines, i.e. not approved. Due to the lack of approved machinery available and despite the provisions of the Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance Act of 14 July 1994, the Ministers of Public Health have so far allowed the reimbursement of MRIs carried out by non-approved machines. By choosing to apply Article 64 of the said Law in a much more firm manner, MRI examinations carried out using non-approved machines will no longer be reimbursed by social security. As a result, hospitals will no longer have sufficient material resources to perform the necessary MRI tests. Minister, are you not afraid that this situation will lead to a re-increase in CT-scans? This would not only run counter to the policies pursued in the context of a reduction in this type of review, but would also not lead to a reduction in the costs of social security, even though this was one of the objectives sought. Taking into account the risks clearly identified by radiologists, do you not think that it would be more prudent to wait for the results of the analysis of the cadastre of heavy equipment launched in January 2016 before considering the formal and strict application of Article 64 of the 1994 Law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u87	Madam Minister, if I am not mistaken, this question has already been discussed in detail at the committee meeting of two weeks ago. If there are any aspects that were not discussed at the time, then there may be an answer to them now, but I still have to read the answer you gave at that time in detail. However, it seemed to me to be quite extensive. I don't think any of the questions I had at the time have gone unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u88	The answer is in the same line, but it is even more detailed, for example as regards the number of MRI devices that for some reason do not yet have a number. Mr Thiéry, I wish to inform you in advance that in the Memorandum of Understanding on Medical Imaging of 24 February 2014, it was agreed, among other things, a scheduled extension of the number of NMR devices of 12 additional short-term devices (7 in Flanders and 5 in Wallonia). Further extension of this program is possible provided that the number of CT-scan reviews decreases. With regard to the NMR examination certificate, we draw your attention to the fact that since 1999, NMR examination certificates are only possible if the services are performed by a medical specialist in radiodiagnostics in an approved service with an approved NMR device and some non-approved ones. So far, however, it was not possible to deny a priori reimbursement by insurers, because it was not possible to explicitly establish with which device an examination was carried out. Some licensed services currently have several devices. The above-mentioned Memorandum of Understanding also provides for the establishment of a national cadastre of aircraft. This national cadastre has just been operationalised and includes all the aircraft for which a mention of the operator is received. It shall be mentioned in this context whether or not the apparatus has an authorisation from the AFCN and an approval from the competent Community. If the file is not in order because the necessary authorisations or approvals have not been received, no follow-up can be given to the file, which means that in implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding and in implementation of Article 64, § 1 of the Health Care Act, no billing number will be assigned by INAMI to these devices. A non-approved device will therefore be included in the national cadastre, but without an INAMI billing number. This unique billing number per device is now mandatory when invoicing services, particularly for NMR examinations. The national cadastre tells us how many non-registered NMR devices are currently registered and what their geographical distribution is. In view of the new invoicing regulations, INAMI will be able to verify whether or not an examination has been properly certified. With respect to your questions, first, if the guidelines for medical imaging are applied, the number of CT-scan exams must decrease. At present, this number is still very high in Belgium and is still increasing year by year despite the fact that the number of NMR devices is increasing continuously. In a targeted review of the application of these guidelines with respect to medical imaging, a sample found that 70% of CT examinations in the spine are not prescribed in accordance with the guidelines, as well as 12% over-use for NMR. For other CT reviews, it was also found that the prescription often did not comply with the guidelines. There is still room for improvement, both for CT-scan reviews and for inappropriate use of the NMR. We will therefore continue to insist on justified prescription and effective care. In addition, in the national cadastre that we currently have, there are NMR devices without authorization. The Royal Decree of 26 May 2016 published on 31 May in implementation of Article 64, § 1 of the Health and Benefits Act and incorporating new conditions of reimbursement stipulates that the regulations come into force on 1 June 2016. There has been no initiative to re-delete this regulation or to provide for additional transitional measures. A proper use of medical imaging with a phase-by-phase extension of the number of NMR devices, as agreed between the competent authorities, is in everyone's interest: patients, doctors, authorities who must also take budgetary aspects into account. On 17 June, Mrs Van Camp, the medical imaging register contained 12 NMR devices which had not yet been approved by the competent State minister. There are also two devices which have received recognition, although the programming for the Land concerned had already been exceeded. Finally, a number of aircraft are part of the quota of 12 additional aircraft, provided for in the protocol agreement, which have not yet received their approval, but which will still be received. In the coming months, the Medical Evaluation and Control Office of the RIZIV will make on-the-spot findings to verify the records of the land register. It will also examine what legal steps can be taken with regard to scanners which do not appear to comply with the rules in force. It is too early to comment on the number of amounts to be recovered, or on the number of investigations, but it is a new instrument and, as has been said, until recently the government did not have the data or tools to locate illegal scanners with certainty and link the investigations carried out to a particular device. The register for medical imaging and the allocation of invoicing numbers per device are initiatives that were developed precisely for the purpose of installing and operating illegal scanners and charging RIZIV for investigations carried out with those scanners, in the future. It has been worked on for a long time in the administration, because I have also said this to Mr Frédéric. It is an initiative that started a few years ago, under my predecessor. Now it's been finalized. It will teach us a lot and it will also allow us to get the number of CT scans down. Originally, there were 33 additional NMRs. In the first part of the protocol agreement we talked about twelve, but as far as I am concerned, it is in the interests of the patient to install more NMRs and to bring down the CTs, just because of the lower burden on the patient, the good quality of imaging and the very low or almost absent radiation load. From the point of view of general public health, we should not go into this lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is extremely comprehensive. Did I understand that the cadastre of the devices would be complete? Would all the information be available today? For, if my information is good, one of the remarks noted that hospital management had only received the form to be completed in the course of March. So they were given little time to respond. If the cadastre is complete, it is, of course, an excellent thing, which makes it possible to have a clearer and more objective view of the situation. I also hear that there will therefore be controls in the following months. Is that to say that by the end of the year, we will have a clear vision and we will adapt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u90	Since the obligation to work with a registered number only came into force on 1 June, it is only from this month that we can start the checks on the basis of the cadastre. They had a period of three months to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u91	Madam Minister, I will make one final point. In the community, some felt that it would be interesting to analyse the cadastre's results finely and to review the funding, which went back more than twenty years, in favour of a centre-based allocation that would seem more logical than machine-based funding. It is, of course, a question of conception. This is, in any case, the opinion of several radiologists, of which I wanted to inform the firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u92	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the initiative or for continuing what had already been decided in the previous legislature. At least it's being rolled out now. At least we shall now have a look at the problem. We can only welcome the measures which have called for a reduction in the number of CT scans and the radiation associated with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u93	Question No 12034 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and questions Nos 12055, 12056 and 12063 by Mrs Renate Hufkens are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u94	Madam President, Madam Minister, a bar in Chicha will soon open in Waremme, which concerns many citizens, including this commune. However, as the Public Health FPS states on its website: "Many people think that the water pipe is less harmful than conventional smoking products. Nothing is less true. Chicha tobacco contains just as many harmful substances as tar and nicotine. Chicha smokers also inhale smoke longer and deeper, so that compared with cigarette smokers, they absorb a higher amount of these substances." Chichas (or water pipes) are regarded as tobacco products and are therefore subject to Belgian legislation on tobacco products and the ban on smoking in public places. Minister, what are the results of the latest controls conducted by the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS Public Health? Do you have data specifically for chicha bars? If so, is there any change in the results of these controls in recent years? Has the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS Public Health received complaints related to chicha? If so, what were the reasons for these complaints and were there many of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u95	Ms Matz, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS Public Health has already received several complaints regarding the consumption of nargile in horeca establishments. Complaints are registered with the FPS Public Health by type of offence, e.g. smoking in the Horeca. Complaints about tobacco consumption in chicha bars therefore fall within this general category. It is impossible to disaggregate complaints according to the type of tobacco that is specifically smoked, but the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service issued 12 chicha bars in 2013, 32 in 2014 and 33 in 2015. The main offences are: non-compliance with tobacco legislation (e.g. smoking is far too large); non-compliance with legislation on trade in tobacco products (products are sold in bulk and are therefore sold without health warnings or tax stamps). Under the new legislation on tobacco products, water pipe tobacco must meet the same requirements as cigarettes and rolling tobacco. There must be two large warnings combined with photos on the front and back and two warnings on the side of the packages. Maybe it's a new fashion. I can't explain why so many chicha bars are opening up in our house.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to see that the services are paying particular attention to a phenomenon that you have just said is evolving. There is a form of idea that smoking chicha is not harmful, that it is "natural". This is indeed the danger of this type of bar because one has the impression that one can smoke by failing to comply with the legislation on public establishments and on the horeca sector. I am pleased to see that you are dealing with this problem, which is quite important, based on the minutes that have been prepared and the warnings on the products that are sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u97	Minister, robotics is developing in all sectors, including at the medical level. I would have liked to have your opinion on surgical robots, since they become fashionable, like chicha. Doctors are demanding them out loud, but we know that these robots are very expensive to acquire and maintain. Therefore, apart from a commercial strategy of the firms that sell them, Minister, are they of real interest to the patient and of real benefit to surgeons? What is the medico-economic impact in terms of treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u98	With advances in technologies such as computer imaging or micro-techniques, we are currently at a pivotal stage in surgical evolution. It is in this context, of course, that robot surgeons appear on the market. Some hospitals in France are already equipped. It is a surgical robot composed of a console from which the surgeon directs the devices with controllers. It will avoid big incisions that leave scars. Indeed, it allows to pass through small orifices and to have a 3D vision enlarged fifteen times in relation to what the human eye can see. The apparatus has a higher joint than that of the hand. This will result in less post-operative pain, less bleeding and shorter hospitalization for patients. Minister, what is the status of the development of robot surgery in our country? Do Belgian hospitals already use this technology? What are the costs and accessibility? Have recent studies been conducted on its usefulness and effectiveness? Has any consultation with care institutions and patient associations already taken place in this context? Finally, what about the training of surgeons in the use of it? Safeguards will undoubtedly be essential to protect the patient. What measures are therefore envisaged to guide robot surgery and ensure optimal quality of care for patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u99	Mr. Piedboeuf and Mr. Blanchart, thank you for your questions. Already in 2009, the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care finalized a Health Technology Assessment study on robot-assisted surgery. I invite you to read the KCE104B report. The main conclusions and recommendations of the study are as follows. At the time, there were at least 20 robot-assisted surgical facilities in Belgium. In terms of the number of installations per capita, our country was ranked second in the world after the USA and far ahead of the rest of Europe. The technique consists, for the operator who is in the same room as the patient, of ordering surgical instruments remotely. The procedure is very little invasive in that the surgical wounds are minimized and the procedure is performed by small artificial openings. This technology offers the surgeon an enlarged three-dimensional image and very handy instruments that avoid tremors. It is theoretically very promising and relatively safe, provided the surgical team has adequate training and is well trained. This is why it should only be allowed to the teams that have these assets. Their number must remain limited, so that they can gain the necessary experience. In the study, KCE considered that it has not yet been satisfactorily proven that robot-assisted surgery offers advantages over conventional surgery. For prostatectomy, there is clearly a decrease in bleeding, but other expected benefits such as shortening hospital stay or better results in terms of incontinence or impotence – two important elements for the patient – are not clearly demonstrated. The nomenclature currently only provides for reimbursement of robot-assisted surgery in case of radical prostatectomy. A declaration of agreement has been drawn up to ensure the provider's expertise and quality of care. This statement defines the target group of patients and provides that no supplement may be charged to the patient who enters into the account and opts for a hospital that has signed the declaration of agreement. At the same time, an intervention for endoscopic and viscerosynthesis material is planned. I will send you the nomenclature numbers in writing, because they are rather long. The service "All consumer equipment for the performance of the service", which I will also transmit to you the number of the nomenclature, "by endoscopic robotic surgery" can be attested if the operation is carried out with the aid of the robot-assisted surgery and if the conditions of reimbursement are met. There are currently no plans to extend robot-assisted surgery to other services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u100	Madam Chair, I am pleased with the minister's response. It is precise, clear, and corresponds to my expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u101	Madam President, I agree with my distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u102	Minister, as you know, less than two months separate us from the opening of the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. As every four years, many tourists and athletes from all over the world, including Belgians, will travel to the host city to participate and attend this great sports festival. There will also be an unwanted guest who is this zika virus. You have already answered many questions on this subject in February, but in the meantime, the WHO issued a report on 31 May and there was still a regional consultation in Portugal to examine the findings of the risk assessment and to identify countries' needs and gaps in prevention and, above all, response. Throughout the month of May, the WHO did not fail to recall the risk of outbreaks of the virus in the "Europe" zone even if the risks are limited. As far as the Olympic Games are concerned, I would like to know what special precautions will be taken in this period. I would also like to know whether you have provided for special procedures if an abnormally high number of our fellow citizens were to have been infected with the disease and that we found out only when they returned to Belgium. I know, of course, that in terms of prevention, it is at Community level that things are planned, but perhaps you have planned coordinated action at Community or other level to communicate on the subject to people wishing to visit Brazil in July and August.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u103	Madame de Coster, like many of her neighbours, Belgium is directly affected by the epidemic of Zika infections. The figures of the National Reference Centre on Arbovirosis, which is precisely the Institute of Tropical Medicine, refer to 22 confirmed cases of Zika identified in Belgium on 10 June. All of these people returned from a stay in one of the main affected countries and showed only minor influenza symptoms. Finally, none of them had complications and no pregnant women were among them. These cases were all followed up. The necessary symptomatic measures have been taken. Since the outbreak began, Belgium has adopted a number of measures to improve its preparedness and respond to this international public health emergency. Among the measures that are particularly relevant to pregnant women or those who wish to become pregnant are the dispatch by the risk management group on 2 February of an information letter addressed to health professionals, including obstetric gynaecologists, as well as the publication on 13 June by the Higher Council of Health of an opinion on the Zika epidemic at the request of the risk management group. This opinion, based on the most recent scientific knowledge in this field, contains, among other things, several advice to those returning from one of the most affected countries or territories, and in particular, recommendations to pregnant women, to those wishing to become pregnant and to their spouses. Various institutions have published and regularly update information to persons planning to visit one of the affected countries or territories. This is the case with the FPS Public Health and the FPS Foreign Affairs, the travel clinics of the Scientific Institute of Public Health or, as you mentioned, the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Finally, the Public Health Emergency Unit monitors the situation on a daily basis both in Belgium and internationally on behalf of the Public Health FPS. As regards the investigation and identification of cases in Belgium, many other measures have been taken: the general assessment of the level of alerts or the search for competent vectors within the national territory. These efforts are of course part of close cooperation with both the countries of the European Union and the international community. Depending on developments in Belgium and abroad, additional measures may be taken. With regard to the influence of the Zika virus on pregnancy, the recent opinion of the Supreme Council of Health also addressed the issue. In the light of the most recent publications on this subject, the conclusion of our experts is that, like the World Health Organization (WHO), which took stock of the situation on 31 March 2016, it can be concluded that there is a strong enough consensus within the scientific community to accept the causal link between Zika and fetal abnormalities. This link is now considered to be definitively proven for most experts. For the time being, all possible measures have been taken. The fact is that traffic is more important because of the Olympic Games. The number of patients can increase. The Committee on Information has discussed this and its opinion is that we can only prevent not going there, but when we return, we will still have to treat the sick. Fortunately, there is no comparison to be made with Ebola. Ebola is deadly. In this case, the risk is high for pregnant women especially.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u104	Thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u105	I suggest a few minutes' break to allow the minister to respond to an interview. We will then resume with the questions of Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Calomne. In the meantime, I can tell you that the attached questions No 12123 by Mrs Muylle and No 12396 by Mrs Van Peel are transformed into written questions. Question No 12127 by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed. Questions Nos 12132 by Mr Senesael and 12137 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions and questions Nos 12228 and 12431 by Mrs Thoron. Question No 12288 by Mrs Fonck is postponed. The following are also transformed into written questions: - Question No 12349 by Mr Friart, - Questions Nos 12446 and 12583 by Mrs Muylle, - Question No 12464 by Mr Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u106	Madam President, would it be possible to postpone Mr Flahaux's questions (Nos. 12232 and 12556) because he had to leave as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u107	It'll be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u108	Are the answers to the questions that have been added to the agenda today prepared yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u109	Not the last one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u110	(...) I would like to have my questions translated, if I get the answers. I've been waiting two weeks for the answers to my previous questions. Then I'd better wait until the next committee meeting and put them there. It'll go even faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u111	Could you give him the answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u113	You'll tell me which ones are turned into written questions. Are these all your questions? What questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u114	Questions 12636, 12655, 12656 and 12660.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u115	It's noted, Mrs. Van Camp. Questions Nos 12723, 12758 and 12759 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u116	Mrs. Jadin et Mme Van Peel sont absentes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u117	Madam President, Minister, I think that I would like to kick in an open door when I say that we do not really know the correct extent of child abuse in our country. In order to improve the detection of child abuse, a study was requested from the KCE. The KCE makes about eighteen policy recommendations in response to the study. One of the problems is that the registration of child abuse is not kept together and that the different trust centres also use different registration systems. I was able to see that in person when I was a deputy. We both wanted to support confidence centers in our province and it was hallucinating to see how much difference there was, just by a different way of registering. What struck me the hardest in that study is the fact that only 2 to 3 percent of the reports come from general practitioners. A number of reasons are given for this. One of these reasons is that the general practitioners have little confidence in the existing structures and services, because they know or assume that they are overburdened. In the margins of that study, we could read in the press that the expert child psychiatrist Peter Adriaenssens advocates for forensic pediatricians. Madam Minister, will this issue be placed on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, as recommended by the KCE? Do you, like the Knowledge Centre, think towards better training of the general practitioners and other caregivers in this area and/or the introduction of the so-called child check? What do you think of the balloon that Peter Adriaenssens had in connection with forensic pediatricians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u118	Madam President, Madam Minister, as my colleague pointed out in 2014, many complaints of child abuse were filed in Belgium. The figures show approximately 13,000 complaints. However, according to a recent report by the Federal Centre of Expertise on Health Care (KCE) on the detection of these ill-treatments, these figures would be only the tip of the iceberg. It would seem, unfortunately, that child abuse is under-detected in Belgium. The report particularly points to the role of general practitioners and health professionals who, according to this report, "rarely report cases of abuse": 3% of reports of violence against children are reported by general practitioners, while health professionals are responsible for 9% of complaints in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and 20% of complaints in Flanders. According to the KCE, "reticences and poor knowledge of the judicial system are the cause of low rates of exposure". In addition, many doctors would be afraid to make a poor diagnosis because they feel they do not always know how to interpret signs of violence. In its report, the KCE made several recommendations to improve detection: to put in place concrete action protocols to assist general practitioners and paediatricians in their work, by giving them numbers of organizations to call in case of doubt; to add, if necessary, to doctors the skills of a forensic doctor trained to detect traces of violence; to add courses to the training of health care providers to communicate with families, to address this topic and to find solutions; or to establish childcare facilities for young children and to allocate more resources to specialized structures. Minister, child abuse is a problem that must be at the heart of our concerns and engage all of us. It is important to work to improve its detection. Minister, how do you view the findings of this report and the recommendations made in it? What solutions do they have at this stage, and which ones do you possibly have reservations about? What concrete actions have you already taken to improve the detection of child abuse? What is the status of consultations on this subject between your services and those of the Community authorities? Finally, have you started a consultation with health actors on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u119	Mr Calomne, Mrs Jiroflée, in Belgium we do not have centralized figures on the prevention of child abuse. However, this issue is addressed in the Health Survey conducted by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. As a result, 4.6 per cent of people over the age of 15 reported that they had been victims of some form of violence, and 4.2 per cent reported that they had been victims of some form of violence at work or at school. The KCE Report No. 269 indeed makes a number of recommendations in the fight against child abuse. The focus of this approach lies with the Länder. It concerns assistance to families and children, special youth assistance, youth protection and first-line legal assistance, all of which are the powers of the Communities. After the sixth state reform, the organisation of primary health care was also transferred. Traditionally, state authorities in child abuse focus on welfare services and mental health care. That focus can now be expanded with the focus group of the first line, including the general practitioners. Domus Medica and la Société Scientifique de Médecine Générale have already made efforts to establish clear guidelines on how a doctor or general practitioner can detect abuse and how to act. Doctors therefore have an instrument at their disposal to detect child abuse. It is possible that these tools are still too little known to some doctors. As I told you, my colleagues in the state governments must now look into this. The KCE report also mentions a conflict between the professional secrecy of the physician and the reporting of persons in need. Indeed, it deserves a broad debate to determine whether the problem lies with the current provisions of the Criminal Code. At present one can inform the King's Attorney if there is a serious or imminent danger to the physical or mental integrity of the victim or if other minors can become victims. In addition, Article 422a of the Criminal Code states that it is mandatory to provide assistance to persons in need. In principle, nothing prevents a doctor from doing everything, so that the child is protected and given the care it needs. In case of suspected abuse, it must be ensured that the child is not in such a spiral. Moreover, in the field of psychosocial care for these children, the mental health networks launched last year are building on the existing cooperation between the youth management system, the special youth assistance and the trust centre. For example, people from the confidence centre were already employed in mobile operations, which were strengthened with the budget released to give the reform, which I explained here last year, a real chance. In concrete terms, it means that the mental health care of the children and young people concerned must be integrated into the networking protection pathway. The direction of this will of course lie with young people's welfare. I am thinking specifically of trauma processing, anxiety disorders and attachment disorders due to removals. The reform on children and adolescents thus offers many opportunities to use the desired expertise of mental health care. The issue has not yet been discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but informal contacts have already taken place. As I said, there have also been many contacts with a view to implementing the mental health networks. The main instruments are at the level of the Länder. I am thinking of education, social assistance and first-line judicial assistance. I think it would be logical for one of the Communities to use the moment to raise the issue at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. In which we can partly go along, we have announced through the Guide to a new mental health care for children and adolescents. I cannot, of course, say so much about the points for which we are not competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u120	Indeed, most of the powers lie with the Länder. However, I believe, reading that it is 2 % or 3 % of the general practitioners, that it is logical that we should ask you to be alert to this. You can, if necessary, bring it up at the Inter-Ministerial Conference as an overarching minister, so to speak. It is true that there are a number of tools. I always have the impression that there is not enough coordination on the ground to manage this. I remain dismayed at the number of general practitioners hiding behind professional secrecy while there are people in need. Maybe there should be a powerful signal. This was actually the purpose of my question, to encourage you to give that powerful signal. You didn't say anything about the idea of the forensic pediatricians, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u121	Nor is it within my jurisdiction. That's a jurisdiction of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u122	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u123	Given the cross-skills in this area, it is important to centralize the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u124	Madam President, Minister, the elections for the physiotherapists sector scheduled for 2016 have not taken place. Only one professional organization (Axxon) has been recognized as representative. The mandates given to the physiotherapy sector in the organs of INAMI will therefore be attributed to Axxon, Physical Therapy in Belgium. The Union of Belgian Kinesitherapists deplores a last-minute change which would have shortened the counting time and membership of members by 12 months instead of 15. This change would have harmed him in the process to be recognized as a representative organization, and thus official for physiotherapists. Minister, can you clarify the counting of membership? Do you confirm a last-minute change in the recognition of professional organizations? Is it true that the counting period and membership of the members have been increased from 15 to 12 months? If that is the case, it has implications!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u125	Mr Thiéry, I will explain to you the context of the accounting of the members in the context of the recognition of the representativeness of the professional organizations of the physiotherapists. One of the conditions of representativeness is that the professional organisation must count for the calendar year preceding that of the elections at least 1,000 individual members of physiotherapists affiliated with INAMI, who are in order to pay the minimum contributions. I stress here that this is indeed the calendar year before the election. A professional defence organisation that normally operates receives regular minimum contributions. This requirement prevents the short-term appearance of fanciful, purely electoralist candidatures from organisations that would have only an ephemeral electoral goal that does not correspond to any reality on the ground. The professional organisation wishing to participate in the elections must send an application for recognition as a representative organisation of physiotherapists, accompanied by data on the conditions of representativeness, in particular a computerised list of members who are in order to pay the minimum contributions. In order to verify whether the professional organizations running for election are representative, the social attachés-inspectors of the Administrative Control Department of INAMI go to the administrative headquarters of the professional organizations, accompanied by a judicial officer appointed by INAMI. The Social Inspection Officers shall prepare the record of findings, which shall be submitted to the Officer-in-Charge of the Health Care Service. It shall subsequently notify its decision on the representativeness of the applicant organisations. Some aspects of this election procedure have been adapted to previous provisions, such as electronic voting and membership accounting. From now on, professional organizations must have 1,000 members per calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the list of electors is drawn up. For the 2012 elections, counting took place on the date of transmission of the request. This system has therefore moved from a one-day count to a system with a calendar year count, in order to make accounting clearer. This is not a last-minute change. Indeed, the same adaptation was made at the level of the Royal Decree of 25 February 2015 concerning the conditions of representativeness of dental practitioners. This method of counting members in the context of representativeness conditions was therefore applied for the dental elections already in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u126	Minister, the situation is still a little tricky. I understand you very well and thank you for the additional information you have given. You're saying there was no last-minute change. However, I note this: with the change from 15 months to 12 months of registration and affiliation – still to make the difference between the two – it has been noted, in any case according to the calculations of the Union of Kinesitherapists of Belgium, that this decrease of three months corresponded to a lack of registration of members of the order of 240. They had a list of 1,100 members, which means they are at 860 or 870, and that's exactly what INAMI found. As a result, this association cannot be represented. This is obviously embarrassing, especially when one takes into account the situation at Axxon, where there are 1,000 or more members. This means that on the one hand, we have 1,000 or 1,100 members, and on the other hand, we have 840, and there is no representative for the 840 of the Union of Kinesitherapists of Belgium. I understand the legal implication, but something is wrong with the system. If it were democratic, there would be at least one representation, even if it was less, of the two organizations. The bar has been set at 1,000 members. However, there is also a very important difference in mentality between the North and the South. The physiotherapist in the North contributes while in the South some do not pay their contribution (they are members). That is why they are neither taken up nor accounted for. Hence the problem we face. I would therefore propose to reduce the number of contributing members per federation to 500 or 750. Here we're just at a hinge level. To a maximum of 100 members, the two associations were reportedly represented. I understand that some people see injustice. The aim is not to make it a community problem. We must avoid the drifts that would ensue. But for the future, it may be necessary to consider a representation of both organizations, even if it is only one third - two thirds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u127	Question No 12430 by Mr Senesael is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u128	Madam Secretary, in 2014 24 000 knee replacements and 25 000 hip replacements were carried out in our country. The number of hip replacements per 100 000 inhabitants in 2014 was on average 205 first replacements and 24 revisions, i.e. new operations. As a result, Belgium is in the world top 5 countries with the highest share of hip replacements, together with Germany, Austria, Sweden and Finland. For the knee replacements there is a similar picture, per 100 000 inhabitants 201 for the first replacements and 15 for revisions in 2014. Here Belgium is among the four countries with the most replacements per 100 000 inhabitants, together with Austria, Finland and Germany. These are figures from the national register. There is also a wide variety of costs. Depending on the hospital, the patient's cost of hip replacement varies from less than 700 euros to almost 4,000 euros. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this. Are the high figures due to our system of performance financing? Do doctors recommend surgery too quickly for fear that the patient may otherwise seek out another doctor, as suggested? Is there too little prevention because patients themselves opt for prosthesis far too quickly, while there are still other possibilities? In other words, should there be a change of mind with the doctors? I was wondering if you would take this issue further. Are you planning to do something for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u129	Mrs Jiroflée, I believe that the reports from the Qermid register have recently become known through the media. Perhaps this is why you are asking your question. It is effective that the prosthetic surgery in our country is one of the pioneers in Europe. You're suggesting that it might have something to do with the mental state of the doctors and the model of performance financing. One can also take a different angle. It may be that the low threshold for prosthetic surgery in our country allows patients to diagnose severe joint wear in the past and to replace the joint. After all, we know that the timely placement of a knee or hip prosthesis avoids premature disability and that the patient is also more mobile. All in all, this is a serious procedure, and I don't think that a patient, or a doctor, is just going to put in a prosthetic if it isn't necessary. You also know that the patient's age plays a role, because these prostheses last longer, but not too long; therefore they should not be placed too early. This needs to be brought together. In any case, the fact that we are so high on that list deserves a closer examination. I will ask the Belgian Association for Orthopedics and Traumatology to examine this so that the appropriate conclusions or recommendations can be distilled from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u130	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As a result of that press article, I did dig further. I was surprised at the figures I found on that. There may be another possibility, and that is exactly why I asked the question. I've also heard stories from doctors who get over it easily. It is indeed a major procedure. Yet certain doctors suggest it as if it could be expected to be of any benefit. They also believe that it would not be too serious. That statement, together with the figures, makes me ask this question. I believe that this needs to be investigated, and I am therefore pleased that you are announcing this. I think there are two possible explanations, but I think the problem is serious enough, both for health insurance and for the patient himself, to look into this. I'm glad you seem to be planning this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u131	Madam Minister, the steady increase in the number of people in incapacity for work has recently led to what I might call "panic interventions'. I say this because we have the impression that there is a bit one-sided remediation of the symptom, but not the cause. A great deal has already been said in this connection about the evaluation of the counseling physician and the assessment by the RIZIV doctors, but the role that is always a little out of the picture for the time being is that of the treating physician. However, it is she or he who prescribes incapacity for work. I remember an article in Domus Medica, which describes the very difficult position of the general practitioner in this part of his work and the dual role he has between, on the one hand, monitoring his patient's state of health and, on the other hand, the expectation of health insurers, employers and the occupational physician to act as some sort of expert, and perhaps a bit as a goalkeeper. That article addresses the lack of guidelines and advocates evidence-based medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u132	In the early 2000s, then Minister for Social Affairs, Frank Vandenbroucke introduced a system for prescribing medicinal products, identifying prescription behaviour by doctors and discussing and examining peer groups. I wonder now whether it might not be possible to introduce such a regulation on the prescription behaviour of incapacity for work, which discusses this prescriptive behaviour in cooperation with prevention services, employment rehabilitation services and health professionals. This therefore does not have to be sanctioning, but it could, if necessary, provide support for the general practitioner. It's just that kind of support they're asking for. What are your views on this proposal and are you thinking of this kind of support?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u133	Thank you, Mrs Jiroflée. First of all, we need to distinguish between prescribing incapacity for work under the law on contracts of employment, on the one hand, and prescribing incapacity for work under compulsory sickness and invalidity insurance, on the other. As regards the latter, several initiatives have recently been taken to improve the cooperation between the certifying physician and the counseling physician. A first initiative is to improve the certificate of incapacity for work. The new certificate has been applicable since January 2015. It asks the certifying doctor to provide two additional information to the medical consultant: firstly, the probable duration of incapacity for work and, secondly, the possible codification of the main diagnosis according to ICPC-10.1 or ICD-10. Finally, the attestationing doctor is asked to include in the certificate his data "telephone and e-mail "to also be able to communicate with the counseling physician." In 2017, it is foreseen that the attestationing doctor can send this certificate electronically to the counseling physician. A second initiative is an adaptation of Article 90 of the Co-ordinated Law of 14 July 1994, which, since January 2000, provides that the consultant also communicates to the RIZIV information on primary incapacity for work, including information on the certificate and on the certifying doctor. Other initiatives are currently under way, including the creation of an electronic communication channel between the occupational physician, the counsellor and the employer. The aim is also there to exchange information which should enable the worker to resume his work or a more adapted work with his employer as soon as possible. As regards evidence-based medicine directives, account should be taken of the fact that disability is a multifactorial concept. The fact that a person becomes unfit for work as a result of a medical ethology and the duration of his incapacity for work are partly determined by various non-medical factors, including the nature of the work, the working conditions, the training of the person concerned and other personal factors summarised in the Sherbrooke model. In this respect, the attestationing doctor is already asked to mention professional and social difficulties on the certificate of incapacity for work. Finally, the organisation of a peer review among certifying doctors. Since 2011, funding has been provided by the RIZIV of the LOK meetings, where doctors can discuss among themselves the quality of their prescription behaviour regarding disability. They therefore have a funded framework within which they can work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u134	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the elements of his reply. That makes things much clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u135	Minister, these questions relate to routine screening for cystic fibrosis in newborns. We were all arrested by the Muco Association, an association for people with cystic fibrosis and their families. For many years, it has been demanding systematic screening of newborns through a structurally funded program. The Muco Association explained to us that systematic screening is important for these children to be healthier. It can be seen that, when this screening is performed after 2 months of age, the evolution is more negative and the health of these children is more fragile. In our case, the median age is 8.2 months for this screening. Therefore, despite the treatments, these children remain more fragile. At the European level, this screening is recommended within 35 days and in any case before 58 days after birth. A neonatal screening would also reduce the burden of treatment and keep the patient in a better state of health in hope, with cystic fibrosis being an incurable disease to date, to be able to hold on until the appearance of a new generation of promising drugs, such as CFTR modulators, and thus benefit from medical research. From a financial point of view, the KCE estimated the budgetary impact of neonatal testing at some €340 000 to €635,000 for the completion of all tests (TRI, DNA and sweat tests). A Dutch study shows that the cost-effectiveness of this neonatal screening would range from €23,000 to €29,000 per year of life earned. Other countries have already included this screening, namely Australia, New Zealand, the United States, the Canadian provinces, France, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Norway, Austria, Ireland, Poland, etc. In 2010, KCE gave a positive opinion on this neonatal screening. In 2014, the Intercabinet Working Group "Chronic Diseases" also addressed the issue. In 2015, at the end of the European Congress on Fiascosis, the Flemish Minister of Health asked to put the subject on the agenda of the Interministerial Conference. Today, we still have no decision on this matter. Seven referral centres have adequate care. If these children were detected earlier, they could be referred more quickly to these reference centres and have the most appropriate treatment. Minister, when and with what procedures do you plan to implement this systematic neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u136	Madam Minister, I will not repeat everything, since Mrs Gerkens has outlined the problem well. I would remind you of the great advantages of such systematic neonatal screening: there are positive effects on weight, growth and lung function. There are also fewer hospitalizations and more often a diagnosis of suffering is avoided, because one can see very quickly where one is going. Health also remains better in anticipation of new therapies that are coming and could address the problem in a much more thorough manner. Finally, the screening offers opportunities for further research. I understand that this is being followed up in the Chronic Sick Interkabinets Group. What's the status of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u137	Minister, the context is set by my colleagues. In 2010, the KCE published a notice entitled Systematic screening of cystic fibrosis in all newborns: a conditional yes. The KCE recommends systematic screening of all newborns under certain conditions, such as the authorisation of duly informed parents, quality control of screening tests, selective testing of genetics and quality monitoring. Early detection can lead to better care for the child concerned by one of the reference centres. That is no longer to be demonstrated, Madam Minister, these are my few questions which are in addition to those of my colleagues. As a result of this opinion, has this issue been addressed in the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health? If so, could you clarify to me the conclusions and decisions adopted? If not, do you intend to bring this item to the agenda of the Conference? Thank you for all the answers you would like to give to the questions raised in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u138	I can be brief, because my fellow Members have already said everything. I can add that a motion for a resolution has been tabled by Elke Van den Brandt from Green and Bart Van Malderen from sp.a. which will soon be discussed. So the Flemish Parliament is already working on screening. I have the same questions as my fellow Members. What share will the federal government take? What position do you take on the basis of the most recent data? What is the state of play at the federal level in relation to the Inter-Ministerial Conference and the Inter-Kabinette Working Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u139	However, I would like to remind you that broad prevention, including screening programmes, falls within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. As a result, they should also decide on the organisational modalities for the screening programme arthropods of the diseases to be detected for newborns. As regards the budgetary impact of the tests followed, consultation between the federated entities and the federal authority will be necessary. On 21 March 2016, the federated entities and the federal authority signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Prevention, whose screening of newborns is a priority theme. In order to implement this protocol, technical working groups will be set up to examine the technical details of the achievements on this protocol. These groups are made up of federal and federal governments and, if necessary, external experts. The technical working groups for the screening of newborns include the identification of possible additional diseases, a proposal for the test to be used and its budgetary implication, through a tool of the KCE report on the screening of newborns. The technical working groups have been set up and will carry out their work in September. Priority shall be given to the screening of cystic fibrosis. Required results have been requested, such as the state of neonatal screening in each Land, which is not the same everywhere, including registration, and an inventory of what is needed for the health data. The difference in screening tests between the Communities and the Regions should be identified, as well as their prostheses and counters. If we are to carry out a wide-ranging screening, it must be done with the best instrument, otherwise we will miss our goal. The arguments pro and contra for possible uniformisation of the screening set must be weighed. That doesn't have to be the same set, but from the point of view of screening, the tests are best as close as possible to each other. It has also been asked whether other diseases can be screened. As Mrs Gerkens said, additional diseases could also be identified with a proposal for the test to be used, arguments for and against, and budgetary implications. It's necessary to know... We will then have to look at how we can cope with this budget and who will bear what burden. At present, for example, we still bear the burden of part of the cost of vaccination against cervical cancer and other vaccinations, on which there has been quite a lot to do. First, of course, the necessary work must be done, with members of our administrations participating in the working groups. For me, it is all very slow, given that the study in question was already published in 2010. In the meantime, apparently, little has been done. The work must be done thoroughly. Preparations are already well advanced and the technical working groups will be able to work with them from September onwards, after which they will be speeded up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u140	Will it be for the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u141	No. If the working groups can start working on the basis of the work carried out in September, we will ask them to give their conclusions before the end of the year. We need to make progress because we have a lot of time to catch up. But it will be impossible to make up for the six years lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u142	It is indeed a pity that all this time has been lost and that new elements could not be used to put in place the most suitable devices. I understand that the working group will begin its work in September with deadlines and follow-up, with a view to achieving results by the end of the year. I can only support this approach. Cella said, perhaps it would be appropriate to insist that the data collected be harmonised and usable throughout the country so that research and studies can be carried out on the basis of such data with a view to improving the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u143	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. I am particularly pleased to hear that working groups are starting from 1 September. I am very sorry that so much time was wasted. I was more or less expecting you to have given an explanation for this. Apparently, nothing came out of the bus for a long time. I fully agree with you that it has been far too slow. I remember that you plead for a uniformation. I agree. That was my underlying idea: if we want to screen properly, we need to do so in as uniform a way as possible. Then we can also easily derive some data from it. We are now counting on you to bring in the schwung, as you yourself put it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u144	Madam Minister, as you said, I think we need to make up for lost time. This means developing the maximum amount of energy to ensure that the working groups set up are effective and can succeed, as you said, at the end of the year. Progress will need to be made in collaboration primarily with the memorandum of understanding of the federated entities and the federal government. I think there are health problems that can't wait any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u145	I agree with what my fellow Members have said. In any case, it is clear that many Members of Parliament in the Flemish Parliament, perhaps also in the Walloon Parliament and in the Chamber, have been woken up and can thus bring the schwung into the discussion of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u146	Madam President, Minister, practice shows that the rights of doctors in training, which have been established since 2010, such as working hours, time for research and internships abroad, are often difficult to enforce with a number of internships. The coalition agreement states that there is a need to remedy this. For example, the regulations on traineeships would be reviewed. This is also linked to the reform of hospital funding and the nomenclature. In consultation with the Länder, the framework of the internship and the support of the internship counsellors in basic training for all health professions would be improved. The introduction of an adapted social status for general practitioners and specialists in training would be examined. The coalition agreement is for you the Bible. Our Ecolo-Green Group has organised a very interesting round table with the student domes and many experts from the field. They all say that the momentum has come for a better and full statute. I share their opinion and because you are reforming hospital funding, there is an enormous opportunity. Investing in a full statute is also investing in a different climate with doctors. It's not just about those particular rights. It is also, and above all, about the quality of training and good working conditions, which will have a direct impact on quality health care. Do you agree with me that we should make a better legal difference between the employer and the internship manager and that the model is a good example for the general practitioners, for the HAIOs, with a non-profit association as intermediary? The following question focuses on those specialists who have less than the HAIOS. Do you agree with me that the candidate doctors are entitled to a full and full social status, with pension rights? What rights would you like to grant if necessary? Since the problem is in the coalition agreement, I would like to ask you what your timing is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u147	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I have always fought for the best social rights for everyone. So I am also in favour of granting better social rights in the context of the doctors-specialists in training. I have had the following pistes examined: the slope of a full employee's statute, which will of course be the most financial; the slope of sui generis, while maintaining the status of sui generis, extended to the branch of employees' pensions, because these people now have a number of years less pension formation; the slope while maintaining the status of sui generis, with a possible regularisation of the period of training; the slope while maintaining the status of sui generis, with an extension to the branch of pensions of the self-employed, or the slope of the full status of self-employed. So that's five different slopes, which I've had examined. Various discussions have already taken place on this subject in advance, following the adoption of the policy choice to extend the sui generis statute, with a pension in the first pillar of the workers' system. That proposal was discussed at the meeting of the Joint Committee on 28 June 2016. However, I have not yet received the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u148	So it's very recent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u149	That's right, because June 28, 2016 was last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u150	You are talking about piste 2, which is sui generis, extending to the branch of workers' pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u151	That slope was indeed the first to be dealt with at the meeting of 28 June 2016. We shall now await the opinion and the opinion of the Committee on the matter. I haven't received it yet. Afterwards, the other slopes can also be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u152	So, Minister, you're investigating that slope, and according to the advice, you'll have other slopes examined?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u153	They've already been asked to examine these. We have not been waiting for the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u154	And then you go to the Council of Ministers with a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u155	This also needs to be checked out. I'm not doing that alone. When it comes to pension rights, my colleague responsible for Pensions also comes up. If it is also about other social rights, such as disability, it will be for Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u156	Who comes first, the carers or the doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u157	At least some leads have already been examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic464x.u158	Questions that have not been converted into written questions are postponed at the same time.
