ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u1	Madam President, Secretary of State, the government has recently taken the decision to close down various refugee reception centres due to a reduction in the occupancy rate of reception facilities. Among them, "Le Refuge" in Mouscron, whose closing date announced at the end of October remains vague. From now on, it appears that the closing date is finally set for 17 November. The local authorities received a letter announcing the closure in September, which, in my view, seems too short to allow the City of Mouscron as well as the various associations to take the necessary steps to anticipate the closure of the place at best. It is necessary to ensure that persons and families who have recently been granted refugee status can be relocated to ILAs or other structures in a decent manner. It is also essential to ensure the educational progress of some refugee candidate children who have recently arrived in Mouscron and who have begun their schooling. In addition, various avenues would be put forward regarding the future of the centre in question. The Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon, during his visit to Mouscron on 30 August, spoke of a possible transformation of the refuge into a closed centre for foreigners in an irregular situation who had to leave the territory. In addition, the press reported that the building could accommodate an open medical centre. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us where the asylum seekers currently staying in the Refuge will be distributed and who have not yet received a response as to their status? Can you provide us with clear and accurate information about the future of this centre? Will a structure be put in place at this location? If so, will it be a closed centre or an open medical centre or something else? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u2	Mr Mayor, Mr Delannois, as with any closure, a gradual reduction schedule is drawn up for each reception structure concerned. This includes the cessation of the designation of the first arrivals to the reception structure and the natural departure of the residents received, for example, following the obtaining of a residence permit, or the organization of their transfer to another suitable reception structure, taking into account the linguistic regime of the minors attending school. Residents during the proceedings are therefore transferred to other reception facilities. As far as Fedasil is concerned, the reception structure, as it exists today, will close as planned. It is true that there is no shortage of ideas for the reconversion of the place, but they are neither practical nor concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u3	I take note of this, but I have little to add since, when I asked what the centre in Mouscron was going to become, I received no answer. In Mouscron, many hypotheses are currently under consideration. The Refuge is located right in the city centre and at the border. The assumptions put forward raise fears among the population of Moscow and they want to know what will happen to this centre. There's a lot of ideas, but we don't know where we're going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u4	Questions Nos 12598 and 12613 by Mrs Matz and Mr Kir are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u5	Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, several weeks ago, a review of the analyses carried out by the competent departments on the files of refugee candidates revealed that a medical examination, a bone test planned for that purpose, had created a significant cost in 2015. This is obviously a very sensitive question on two points: the one aimed at the veracity of the statements made by migrants in the context of the status of MENA, which gives rise to a number of obvious rights for a minor, but also to charges for the State against these minors who are sore. The second sensitive element concerns examinations, as such, since it would appear that some scientists are challenging their performance. Do you confirm that almost 400,000 euros were spent on these tests only in 2015? How many tests were performed? Does the amount seem "normal"? Can you tell us, on the number of tests, how many resulted in a result that contradicted the candidates' statements? Can you tell us all the tests planned under this procedure and their cost? What are the possibilities for refugee candidates, following a test that contradicts their statement? Do you confirm that the voluntary return procedure, and all that this implies in terms of recovery aid in the country of origin, is not activated for candidates who have been found to have lied about their identity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u6	Madam President, the honourable Member will find the answer to his question below. It's a little shocking, I think. Ms. Smaers also asked a lot of questions on this subject. The total cost of bone tests was 56 198,98 euros in 2015 and 352 964,65 euros until 25 October 2016. The amount is therefore multiplied by five and the year is not yet over! It should be noted that this corresponds to the cost charged in relation to each fiscal year 2015 and 2016, respectively, and does not necessarily relate to asylum applications made during the fiscal year. But normally most of the applications were submitted in the year in question. I have the numbers for the first eight months, but maybe we can give you the numbers to this day. My co-worker will check immediately. Of the 451 tests requested until the end of August, 338 resulted in the person being considered a major, or 75%. You will note that the results of all the tests requested have not yet reached the Office of Foreigners and that this figure is therefore subject to change. Of the 1,592 tests requested during 2015, 1,370 resulted in the person being considered a major. It is also a very high rate: 86%. There's no other test planned. The CGRA is not competent for the determination of age and is therefore bound by the decision of the Tutelle Service. In case of serious doubt as to the outcome of the age determination and in the presence of objective elements contradicting these results, however, the CGRA has the possibility to request the Tutelle Service to make a new determination of age. When the age determined denies the age declared by the asylum-seeker, this is not in itself a sufficient reason to reject the asylum application. CGRA continues to examine the merits of the application in its entirety. However, a false declaration of age may be regarded as a negative indication of the credibility of the application. It's not because we lied about age that it's ex officio no. For example, some young Afghans are not certain of their date of birth. But in general, there is a lot of fraud in asylum with the MENA system. That's a big problem. For this reason, Ms Smeyers has introduced a bill to the effect that people who lie about their age will have to pay for the test. It's an idea, which I think is not bad. We are currently studying all proposals in this direction. This is really an urgent issue, given that more than 80% of these people lie about their age. If more than 80 % is lying about his age, then there is a big problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u7	Thank you for that clarification. You started by saying it was a little shocking. It wasn't the questions that shocked you, it was the observation you made. It's not because I'm questioning you that you're shocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u8	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u9	All right. You said that in 2015 it was a cost of 56 000 euros. And for the first ten months of 2016, 352,000 euros. But you're talking about 450 tests and 1,500 tests in 2015. What does the €352,000 correspond to? More than 450 tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u10	Yes, that's right. We need to check that response. The first and fourth replies are updated. But the second answer is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u11	That sounds huge for 450 tests!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u12	We'll check this out immediately. You're right, it doesn't match.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u13	For the rest, I share your thoughts, but charging people who don't have a lot of money is maybe a little...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u14	You can talk to Ms. Smeyers and start her bill together. That would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u15	Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u16	The attached questions by Mrs Katja Gabriëls (No 12888) and Mr Emir Kir (No 13072) were postponed. Question No 13202 by Mr Hellings is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, my question dates back to the beginning of September when the situation of nine parents, who had been in Uganda for months, seemed to be totally blocked. They weren't allowed to leave the country with their adoptive child because Uganda didn't let them go and the babies didn't get a visa. The Belgian embassy in Kampala contested the decision that parents should be allowed to leave immediately with the children. After all, a new Ugandan adoption law is in force from 2 June 2016 and this law obliges adoptive parents to stay in Uganda for a year before leaving home with their adoptive child. The problems arose from the embassy's doubts as to which law was applicable at that time, the old one or the new one. The adoption procedures would all have started before the new law or its entry into force. On 6 September last, six children were allowed to come to Belgium with their adoptive parents. For four children, further on-the-spot consultations were needed because their file would have been submitted after 2 June. For weeks the responsibilities were transferred to the various parties: the Foreign Affairs Department, Justice, Child & Family, the Flemish adoption centre and even the Foreign Affairs Department. You stated that Child & Family had acted too expeditiously by letting parents leave for Uganda in June with that incorrect or unverified promise that they could return immediately with their adoptive child. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I have a few questions about this. Do you know if Minister Vandeurzen, the Minister responsible for Child & Family, had previously obtained the necessary information on whether parents would really be given the necessary exit documents to leave Uganda immediately? The Foreign Office had also promised to issue visas immediately as soon as the Ugandan government gave permission to leave the country. Was this to be done in that order, or did the impasse arise because Uganda, in turn, was waiting for a decision from the Foreign Office? Finally, can the Foreign Office do anything to unblock the situation of the children who still have to stay in Uganda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u18	On 6 June 2016, Ms Smeyers, Kind & Family, informed the members of the Committee for Consultation and Follow-up on Adoption in writing that all the relevant files were submitted to the court before the new law was signed and that although the date of entry into force of that law was not clear at the time, it was already clear that this new law would not affect the files in question. To this end, Kind & Gezin would also have obtained external legal advice from a lecturer at the University of Kampala. This information did not give rise to immediate concern at that time. However, it was only when the visa applications for the group of the four children were submitted effectively to the Belgian embassy that it was found that these files had been brought before the Ugandan court after the entry into force of the new law. In order to ensure that Ugandan legislation was respected, the embassy was therefore obliged to seek additional advice from the Supreme Court, the principal judge. It is the advice of this judge that ultimately led to the verdicts being revoked, resulting in the known deadlock. In view of the stalemate and legal uncertainty about the scope of the new legislation, the consent of the Ugandan government to leave the country was an essential guarantee for the Foreign Affairs Office to prevent the children from being stopped after a visa was issued by the Ugandan border authorities, with all possible consequences for the adoptive parents and for Belgian diplomatic relations with Uganda. It was difficult for me to deliver a visa if there was a good chance that they would just be stopped at the border, that they wouldn't be able to leave. Those well-meaning Belgian parents who wanted to take their baby would then be regarded as some kind of hostage taker of Ugandan children. That wouldn't be the first time either. We have experience with that. That would be very painful, wouldn't it? There was a lot of pressure on me to give the green light to deliver those visas, and I refused. During those weeks and weeks, I constantly refused to deliver those visas because I had no guarantee whatsoever, nor did my services allow them to leave the country freely. I'm not, that would have been very unwise. What Child & Family and a number of other organizations have all promised to those parents, the Foreign Affairs Office is not in charge of that. The question of DVZ to obtain the consent of the Ugandan government before the departure of the children was therefore an answer to the deadlock rather than its cause. You can understand that at some point I and Minister Reynders asked Uganda if it would be okay for them to leave. That wasn't okay. Meanwhile, all the children's files are unblocked. The visas were delivered. I'm very happy about that. You should know that some parents are in my indirect circle. I also know the problem. I know very well what I was doing back then. I do, my services do. The exit went smoothly. I come to the role of DVZ. DVZ has the power to take the final decision on the issue of visas, but is only a second-line body in the field of information collection. It is mainly the contacts and talks that have been held in our own embassy in Uganda that have led to a solution. I would therefore like to express my thanks to Minister Reynders and his services. I know a lot was told and written about it, but the truth also has its rights. It's not on the federal level. The fact that these parents have traveled without the certainty that they could travel back with their child is not the responsibility of the federal government. On the contrary, the case was blocked and then unblocked thanks to a cooperation of Foreign Affairs, our post in Uganda and ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, this question has been pending for a while. The situation has changed in the meantime. All's well, I'd say. I am pleased that you have been able to clarify this dossier. I fully understand that at that time no visa was issued for fear that the adoption parents would be stopped at the border. That would not be good for anyone, not for the wishing parents, and certainly not for the adoptive child, nor for the further development of the adoption procedure. I fully understand that position. It's a shame it had to be that way. It was a miscommunication between different services, I think. There's no point in looking for a culprit in there. We hope that lessons will be drawn for the future, because this situation could repeat itself in other countries. We've been warned about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, following the migration crisis of last year, the government announced in December 2015 the establishment of a plan for the overall distribution of asylum seekers across all Belgian municipalities. The announcement of this plan has prompted many municipalities to increase their reception capacity by creating new local reception initiatives. However, as asylum applications began to decline sharply in January 2016, the mandatory allocation plan has never been activated. The press also reported several months ago that almost 1,000 places in ILA remained unoccupied. Mr. Secretary of State, my questions about this are simple. How many places in local hosting initiatives have been created to date since May 2015? Can you tell us at the moment what the rate of occupancy of ALAs is? Can you also tell us what the rate of occupancy of collective structures is? Fedasil tries to create a balance between collective reception and individual reception in ILA. Can you tell us the current percentage of these two types of structures? Finally, can you tell us at what proportion of group reception and individualised reception you want to arrive at the end of the year, following the announced reduction of several thousand individual and collective places in the reception network?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u21	Between May 1, 2015 and October 21, 2016, the ILA's capacity increased from 6,118 to 9,370 places, a net increase of 3,252 places. The ALI occupancy rate is currently 65% on 21 October. The occupancy rate of collective reception facilities is currently 89%. The occupancy rate in ILAs is justified by the fact that we have honoured the municipalities and CPAS that have made concrete commitments, you know! Additional ALAs have been opened again. In addition, the Agency notes the departure of persons in transition to the ALI. The instruction to complete the ALIs in accordance with the Government Agreement was communicated to the Agency and will soon have an impact on the occupancy rate of the ALIs. We've been really busy doing this for the last two weeks. This instruction provides for the transfer of recognized refugees from collective centres to ILAs. Asylum seekers with a high rate of recognition will be oriented towards individual reception as provided for in the government agreement. From 1 August 2016 until mid-October 2016, 1,330 people have already been referred to the ALI. I would point out that Fedasil's objective is not to achieve an equal number of places in collective reception and individual places, but to have sufficient capacity and in line with the new model of reception, according to which preference must be given to the organisation of collective reception, in accordance with the government agreement. Individual reception is reserved as a priority for certain vulnerable groups as well as for asylum-seekers with a high chance of being recognised. The shares currently represented by collective and individual reception places within the host network are 63.2% and 36.8% respectively. After the reduction in the capacity of the host network, which will end in the first half of 2017, and not at the end of this year, collective reception is expected to account for about 60% of the host network and individual reception 40%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. This information is broadly supported. There are a few surprises about the efforts made at your initiative, it should be noted, to support local projects. I note that this is still a relative success. There is a net increase of 3,100 places. It's still something that needs to be addressed. Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 13386 was converted into a written question. For the questions under item 11, we are waiting for Mrs Lanjri, who is currently in another committee meeting. Mr Luykx is on his way to order under item 12. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée has converted 13632 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hellings' 13654 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u24	Madam President, the Secretary of State, Slovakia, who chairs the Council of the European Union until the end of December, has made the implementation of a common and sustainable immigration policy one of its main priorities during the six months of her mandate. In this regard, on the sidelines of the recent European summit in Bratislava, its Prime Minister, Robert Fico, announced to the Slovak national press the creation, by the end of the year, of a new European Border and Coast Guard Corps to strengthen the protection of the external borders of the European Union. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm the possibility of establishing an operational border guard corps by the end of this year? If so, what will be the composition? Where and how could it be deployed? What will be Belgium's contribution to this European Corps project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u25	Ms Jadin, the European Border and Coast Guard Corps, on which the Council, Parliament and the Commission reached an agreement under the Dutch Presidency on 21 June, was established by regulation on 14 September and entered into force on 6 October 2016. On that date, the current Frontex ceased to exist in order to be absorbed by the new European Border and Coast Guard Corps. I was there, it was on the Bulgarian and Turkish border. The Agency shall comprise, on the one hand, the European Border and Coast Guard Corps and, on the other hand, staff from the Member States who will be assigned to the European Border and Coast Guard Teams. In addition, the regulation provides for the creation of new pools, joint return pools for the forced return monitors, return specialists, and forced return escorts, which will be mobilised in the Agency's return activities and migration management support teams, which will be active in the hotspots. Another innovation is the creation of a quick reaction pool. They are employees of the Member States who, at the request of the Executive Director, must be made available to the Agency within five days in order to be mobilised in situations requiring urgent deployment, such as unforeseen and exceptional migratory pressure or when a Member State situated at an external border fails to comply with its commitments. The pool will consist of 1,500 officers and is expected to be operational by December 7, 2016. Belgium's participation in the deployment of personnel within the European Border and Coast Guard Corps in joint operations will be determined during the bilateral discussions held once a year between the Member States and the Frontex Agency. Recruitment will be carried out at the national level on the basis of the profiles defined by the Agency. In the case of repatriation pool, the number of employees which Belgium is required to provide is set at 30. These persons will come from the integrated police or other relevant public services. For more information, we await these profiles that are not yet known. We need to provide 30 border officers, who may be officers of the Foreign Office, police officers or military personnel. MM. Jambon and Vandeput and I will find an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 13800 will be taken under item 11, if she is still on the agenda. Interpellation No. Mr Kir's 171 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 14171, 14172, 14174, 14179 and 14180 of myself are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 14185 by Mrs Gabriels was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 144, by Mr De Vriendt Mr Piedboeuf. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 14506 was merged with the questions under item 11. There are also questions from Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Pas, Mr Frédéric and Mr Ducarme on the agenda, but we will wait and see if they show up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, on Monday 24 October the closure of the jungle in Calais started. Minister Jambon has deployed 120 additional agents to guard the border between France and West Flanders, knowing that most asylum seekers do not want asylum on the European mainland, but if necessary want to travel through Belgium to the United Kingdom to apply for asylum there. However, we may have to take account of the fact that a minority, possibly under pressure, will still want to apply for asylum in Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Are you prepared for a possible influx of asylum seekers from the refugee camp in Calais as regards registration and reception? Do you expect it not to be necessary to take additional measures to this end, and is the current capacity sufficient, or do you expect to have to use more people and resources to control the potential influx of asylum seekers? If asylum seekers manage to cross the border, are there sufficient means to detect and transfer these people to a closed centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u29	Mrs Smeyers, the Department of Foreign Affairs, through temporary staff shifts, is able to achieve registration in the event of a temporary increase in the number of asylum seekers, following a prior security screening of the candidates. During the various follow-up meetings that took place with all the Belgian partners involved, the Home Office, my cabinet, the police, the Foreign Office and so on, but also with the French services, the Prefect of the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region assumed that the vast majority of the people staying in the camp would like to apply for asylum in France. So France has been looking for six thousand shelters. In addition, France will evacuate the camp with a significant number of police officers and this good framework promises not to cause a spillover to Belgium. In the meantime this is happening and at the moment we have not seen any effects on the Belgian border from the evacuation of the camp in Calais. Within the Belgian police forces, two liaison officers were identified who are in daily contact with the French services and exchange information as far as possible. Nevertheless, all the Belgian partners involved have developed different scenarios, so that they can respond immediately to the effects of the evacuation of the camp. You have also heard that the Minister of the Interior has said that he will do everything in his power to ensure that there is no tent camp in our country. The police provide additional staff in the border region from last Saturday and a Regional Administrative Handling Office (RAAK). The Foreign Affairs Office will provide on-the-spot assistance for administrative handling. If the police find migrants from France on Belgian territory, the administrative handling will take place in this RAAK. We did the same last time, at the evacuation of the Dunkirk camp. Depending on the situation, those concerned may be held in a closed centre, for the purpose of taking back by France or removal to the country of origin, or receive an order to leave the territory (GVV) or a confirmation from a previous GVV. It is noted that these migrants do not wish to apply for asylum because this would hypothesize their chances of entering and staying in the UK. There is not enough room to lock all detected transmigrants in the closed centres. Although I have been able to achieve an increase in the number of places, these are still limited. As a result, the administration is obliged to use these places as efficiently as possible, as you know. Persons with nationalities that are currently not removable are not locked up in closed centres. There is, of course, plenty of negotiation with these countries of origin in order to achieve a readmission agreement, especially at European level. You know that story at least as well as I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u30	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I understand what I had hoped for, that you and Minister Jambon are well prepared for a possible influx. My question dates from last week and in the meantime it is Wednesday. Do you now have a better view of the flow of refugees? Is it true that most people do not want to apply for asylum in Europe, not even in Belgium, as was actually expected from the beginning? That was probably also the cause or reason of the refugee camp in Calais. You say that Minister Jambon is significant, and I think it is funny that you used this word. It's true that 120 additional agents were deployed to guard the border. That was the right choice. I hope that the refugee camp has quickly been closed down and that people will find the right path and be able to start the right procedure to obtain asylum and protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u31	Madam President, Secretary of State, I would like to come back to a problem that raises a great deal of questions in my region. I am from eastern Belgium, the Verviers region. In the wake of the dismantling of the Verviers terrorist cell, measures had been taken against the Imam de Dison, not to name a radicalized character using his moral authority to promote terrorism among the young people of our country. It was in July 2015. We are almost a year and a half later and this issue is regularly on the news. He has had the "honours" of the press on several occasions with regard to the execution of the measure of expulsion from the territory and again this summer, indirectly, through a new dossier of incitement to the murder in which the son of the character in question is involved. Mr. Secretary of State, I am a public agent. I am questioned several times a week by fellow citizens who ask me: "Why isn't it moving forward? We were told that reports from the Sûreté indicated that this character was dangerous. It has been announced several times that he will be away from the territory, but he is still there". You'll agree with me that it's intriguing. One of two things, either the person concerned does not represent a danger to public order, or it is a danger and it is worrying to know that he is still there. In the face of this situation, which is becoming a bit grotesque, but which is particularly challenging, Mr. Secretary of State, could you enlighten us? You have made a number of commitments, but I do not see them on the ground. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u32	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, as regards Dison's Imam, the royal expulsion order to which the person concerned is subject is being examined by the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers (CCE) following the latter's appeal. Since this remedy is suspensive, the person concerned may not be subject to a measure of forced removal during the examination of the appeal. I am therefore waiting, as are your fellow citizens, like yourself and many Vervieto political figures, for the judgment of the Foreigners' Litigation Council to be delivered. I hope to receive it soon, but I hope so much in my life. But you know that the judges in Belgium are totally independent. And when a case has to take time, it takes time. I will be happy to receive this arrest and to keep the individual concerned away.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u33	Madam President, I thank the Secretary of State for his answer. I know that the judges are independent and that the appeals are suspensive. But this answer is not enough. I can only hear two things. The first is that he is a radicalized man who incites terrorist action, who radicalizes around him, a person identified as dangerous to national security. Moreover, it is always in a position to influence this security situation. That's an issue for me. The second is that the path you have chosen to put an end to this character's actions is not the surest. With respect to such cases, the judicial process may not be overlooked. It will be a teaching for the future. That doesn't solve our problem. The security problem still arises for this gentleman, and I will not fail to go back to this issue, hoping that once the judges have decided, new procedures will not be permanently incorporated into new ones that do not allow for the implementation of wise decisions for national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u34	I'm a little surprised! We had this debate a year and a half ago. I remember what your group said, saying that it was up to the justice system to do something and not to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I remember that Mr Denis Ducrame was also of the opinion that it was up to the justice to act, but he had defended me; the PS group, no! I remember very well opining and saying that it was up to the justice to act. For me, justice must act against hate preachers. But I can only see that this individual has lived for years in our society, in our streets, radicalized many young people, Syrian fighters, terrorists. And that justice has made the decision not to do anything. We have acted, but we are not judges. Justice has still not done anything to date. But that doesn't mean I'm not taking my responsibilities. When it comes to a foreigner, I can withdraw his residence permit in Belgium if there is a proven threat to national security. This law was passed on July 10 or 20, 2015. I don't remember the PS's position on this bill, but I don't think you voted against it. It's a good law. I can only say that I see, with you and with many Vervieto citizens, that while justice says that there are no elements, I do what I can in the course of my duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u35	I can hear everything you explain to me. As for what the PS Group voted on in certain circumstances, you are obviously following this more closely than I am. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on several occasions, whether by your voice or by the voice, not so long ago, of the Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, who is visiting Herve, everyone is saying loud and clear that the problem is going to be solved, no matter how it is resolved. But people, what they see on a daily basis, is that your announcements and your taking responsibility do not materialize on the ground. What happened again this summer with this video that you saw of the son concerned does not calm the feeling that our fellow citizens can have, all political colors combined, including those who do not have one because it is still everyone's right. They think there's something wrong here. Our security is in danger and we are not taking responsibility for it. It is the simple questioning, beyond the convictions, concerns and political affiliations of each other that I simply wanted to deliver in this Parliament. People are worried because they don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u36	I can just tell you that I agree with 90%, but I do not agree when you say that we are not fulfilling our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u37	Fortunately, there are still 10% that differentiate us!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u38	I did everything I could within the scope of my skills. Of course, this radicalised imam has the right to bring an action. When it takes not two months, not six months, but more, citizens are frustrated. Citizens' frustration is ten times mine and perhaps a hundred times yours, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u39	The last word being in parliament and without prolonging, if you want to take the pain – and you did – to read my question, it contains no reproach or aggression. I know how the institutions work. I simply draw attention to the fact that we are announcing without anything happening. I ask you to be even more attentive to it than you were until then.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u40	Of the 22 942 asylum seekers who have been screened since September 2015, 28 have been considered radicalised. Even though it is not a watertight system, you indicated that you want to minimize the meshes of the net to achieve maximum detection. How does screening take place? What are the parameters to consider someone radicalized? How do you determine how dangerous the individuals involved are? Are they a real threat to national security? Can you make the screening even stricter? If so, how? What possible limitation should you take into account? What happens to asylum seekers who are called radicalised? Are these dossiers also delivered to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless in the context of their asylum application? Will they be given a statute? Have you gotten a statute yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u41	The Department of Foreign Affairs questions the intelligence and police services at the time the asylum application is registered. In addition, the DVZ itself carries out systematic checks through the Schengen Information System to determine whether the person is not eligible. The Security of the State and the General Intelligence and Security Service are also requested to screen the person concerned. Since 7 September 2015, Syrian and Iraqi asylum seekers have been systematically screened by the security services. Since December 2015, this has been extended to all asylum seekers. The police are responsible for the control of public order, including on the basis of fingerprints. DVZ provides the security services daily with lists of new asylum seekers. If they find a hit in their database, DVZ will be informed. Furthermore, during and after the asylum procedure, DVZ and CGVS can always contact the security services directly to inform them of a problematic profile. At that time, the competent services may carry out a more in-depth investigation. In addition, a Radicalism hotline has been set up by Fedasil. Through this central hotline, staff from open reception centres can report signs of radicalisation to an asylum seeker. In order to recognise the signs of radicalisation, the employees were trained specifically for this purpose. The parameters used to label someone as radicalized are among the working tools of the security services. I can't give you any information on that. That's not within my jurisdiction. On the basis of the information received, DVZ will examine whether measures can be taken. In doing so, the DVZ applies the maximum possibilities in the Aliens Act for the protection of public order and national security. However, it is primarily the jurisdiction of the court to take action if there is an immediate danger to national security. I am currently looking together with my colleague Jan Jambon at the possibility of increased cooperation with the United States of America in the fight against terrorism. More specifically, the development of systems for the exchange and comparison of fingerprints with the US is under review. This possible cooperation will be considered with due attention to the privacy legislation and the budgetary impact. Security services shall provide elements that may indicate a potential danger or a threat. On this basis and on the basis of the administrative file, the measures to be taken and to be taken shall be evaluated. In doing so, the DVZ applies the maximum possibilities laid down in the Aliens Act for the protection of public order and national security. The decision on the application for asylum is taken by the Commissioner-General, who is independent and takes into account the elements at his disposal. The hits of the screening shall be communicated to the Commissioner-General. If the foreigner has already been recognised, a statute for withdrawal will be introduced at the CGVS. This is possible if the alien has been granted the status on the basis of distorted facts, hidden facts, false statements or false or falsified documents which have been decisive in the asylum decision. If it is a threat to society or national security, it is also possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I understand that every effort is being made to minimize the loopholes. It is being screened and there is clearly sufficient exchange of information between the various services, including through the Schengen Information System. Cooperation with America can only be welcomed, of course with respect for the right to privacy, as you say. That is the common thread, but that right must be weighed against the importance of state security. I certainly don't have any lessons to teach you in that. In the meantime, I think you are well-informed and on the right track. The fact that a statute can be withdrawn if it appears that it has been obtained in a wrong way is self-evident. I believe that this is the right policy choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic518x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 14634 was converted into a written question. That also applies to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Mrs. Lanjri has gone to another committee. Her questions Nos 13800, 14265, 14352 and 14592 were postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 145, by Mr Ducarme 13593 by Mr Luykx.
