ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, I will allow myself to ask the question of Ms. Julie Fernandez, who is ill and who deals with the same subject. So I assume you have the answer, minister. As you know, the PS Group welcomes the work of our military in the so-called "Homeland" temporary mission, given the exceptional situation of the level of threat in our country, which both public authorities and municipalities have had to deal with. However, in the context of this mission, in order to allow military personnel to move to their faction stations, various military vehicles are used, such as armoured vehicles, sometimes in highly touristic or frequented locations. The Council of Ministers decided, in view of the persistent threat at level 3, to extend the presence of the military on the street, but it seems that some adjustments could be made, in particular with regard to armoured vehicles and uniforms. Therefore, Mr Minister, do you intend to consider, in consultation with the municipal authorities concerned by this deployment, how to ensure, while respecting the level of threat established by the OCAM, a greater "discretion" of the Homeland mission with regard to the means used for the transport of the military? Indeed, photos of the city of Brussels are still circulating, especially via Facebook, showing shields either in front of the parliament or in highly touristic places. I don't think that's a good picture for Brussels. We want and demand a military presence This is not a problem. They are doing their job very well. We simply ask, like other big cities, such as Paris, where there have never been tanks in ten years, to park trucks in streets with little traffic. I come to Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez's questions. The military experienced difficult situations at the western train station metro station. These difficulties illustrate a need for clarification of this temporary mission from a legal point of view, relations with the police and probably ad hoc training. Given that the Homeland mission seems to be long-term in the absence of new federal means for police areas, does the government finally intend to clarify the rules of engagement of the military on our streets, in particular to ensure the legal certainty and transparency of these interventions? Is consultation with military and police unions planned? Will the situation at the West Station at the end of January speed up this necessary clarification, in particular in order to avoid such difficulties for the military in the future as you indicate, in February 2015, that "the military does not carry out police missions or patrols and merely carry out static surveillance missions"? What will be the follow-up to this incident in order to make it clear, but also in terms of police training?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u2	Madam Chair, Ms.Lalieux, the legal framework governing the use of military personnel in support of the police is very clear to them. It is therefore not necessary to clarify the rules of engagement because they are strict. They allow our military to carry out their protection mission. Trade unions have already been informed on several occasions about this "Homeland" mission. Legal limitations are explained through practical situations by legal advisers and armed conflict law advisers at each detachment prior to implementation. With regard to the incident at the West Station, as with any incident involving the use of force, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is conducting an investigation. The press release issued by the same federal prosecutor's office, which reported that the military would be heard as victim witnesses, seems to indicate that our soldiers have remained within their mandate. The incident at the West Station, the first incident that has required the use of force since the start of the mission, therefore appears to demonstrate that our members have the tools to carry out their mission and that they are well trained to carry out this difficult mission. The equipment and vehicles used by the military on the street are adapted to the threat and training of the military. It is the equipment that is available to the military to carry out their usual duties. I have noted your request and can confirm that there are normally no more armoured vehicles visible in Brussels. An armoured vehicle is equipped with heavy metal plates. The material used now is considered normal khaki green material, which is the color used in the army.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u3	Minister, thank you. I did not at all question the behaviour of the members of the Western Railway Station. My question was about the roles of everyone, who must know the limit. To avoid any incidents with respect to the military, there must be a clarification of these roles; this is what the unions are asking for. We may still have to try to work on this issue as this mission continues in our cities. As for the equipment, the colour used is the khaki, and the vehicles are armoured, but also troop transport trucks. Perhaps the army also has buses and vans to transport these troops. If this is not possible, it would be good if, in consultation with the municipal authorities, the army found more discreet places, through which tourists do not pass, in order to try to bring them back to our streets. I would point out that Brussels is very strongly affected by the decline in tourism; there are between 30 and 50 % fewer tourists because of the threat. I think that these elements add to the feeling of insecurity that some tourists experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u4	Mrs Lalieux, I understand that Brussels has an impact on tourism. But it's not the military that doesn't make tourists come. That's the threat. And the military are here to protect against this threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u5	There is also a sense of threat, minister. The military must stay in front of the buildings, I am not questioning that. Go to other major cities that have suffered much more deadly attacks than in Brussels, you will not see military transport vehicles or armoured vehicles in tourist places, in front of the Eiffel Tower for example. There were some in the two days following the attacks that killed 130 people, but that can be understood. I am not asking you to remove the military from the streets, but to remove the military vehicles from the sight and photos of the tourists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I have a few questions about the continuation of the Belgian contribution to the European training mission of the Malian Armed Forces. Some of the answers were given to me this morning in the committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign missions. So I apologise for the double answer you may be giving. The third mandate of the EUTM Mali would continue to focus on training and advice at institutional level, as well as on maintaining the recently built capabilities of the Malian armed forces, with a shift towards decentralised activities in the various military regions. Germany has asked Belgium to take over the leadership of this mission. The leadership of this mission would certainly increase our international visibility and appreciation as a reliable partner and contribute to the building up of an operational experience of Belgian executives. This question was also asked by Germany to Sweden and Spain. Firstly, will Belgium take the lead over the full one-year period? My second question concerns the security of our 175 soldiers who will be on the ground from 1 July. Could you outline the current situation in northern Mali? Thirdly, Belgium will continue its contribution in Mali, but what will the other European countries do, outside Sweden and Spain? Will the current participating countries continue to contribute?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u7	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, on 5 February 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the extension of participation in the European Training Mission in Mali, called EUTM Mali, from 1 July 2016 with around 175 military personnel for the period of 1 year. During this period, Belgium will be in charge of EUTM Mali and will manage a number of key functions at the Mission Headquarters in Bamako. The participation of other European Member States in the mission will be discussed this week at the European Union's Force Generation Conference here in Brussels, led by Germany as the current command of the mission. Most of our partner nations have already informally indicated that they want to maintain their present presence in Mali. If I may, I will reply further in French, because it was a combined question. The EUTM Mali mission is not to fight these terrorist groups but to advise and train the Malian armed forces, the FAMA. The threat that these armed groups represent is taken very seriously and the decentralization of EUTM Mali's activities, of which Belgium will resume command this summer 2016, can only be achieved when the security environment permits. As for the EUTM Mali's assessment, the objective formulated in 2013 was to contribute to the restoration of Mali's military capacity, under the control of the legitimate civilian authorities. To achieve this goal, eight inter-weapon tactical groups, the AWGs, will need to be formed by May 2016. Currently, seven AWGs have already been trained and deployed to the north of the country. The target was eight battlegroups. Of these, seven have been formed and one has to be completed by May. Mr Vandenput, for the questions about the security environment in northern Mali, I refer to what we have just discussed in committee behind closed doors about foreign operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that we can already informally hear that our partners are still staying. In last weekend's newspaper, General Hervé Gommaar says that our troops must be more present and mobile and that there are still blinded vehicles too short. I do not know if this has been published in the right context, but the safety of our people on the ground must be monitored and will be a permanent focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 9461 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u10	Minister, at the beginning of December, a report from Transparency International on the position of Belgian defence in the government defence anti-corruption index was published through the Peace Institute. In general, our DOD scores well. With our B-score we are doing just as well as Canada, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and the United States, and we should just let the United Kingdom go first. At the committee meeting on 27 January, I asked you a number of questions about that report, which was published at the time. At that time, I think you were quite right, because you had to look at things even further. You said: 'There are, of course, recommendations and I have instructed the Defence Staff to examine the indications of Transparency'. The method of measuring can make a difference. I have also asked for a proposal to be made with the necessary actions in this regard." There was also reference at that time to a colloquium in the Flemish Parliament which took place during February and where you, like the chairman of the committee and myself, were present. Mr Minister, I have a number of punctual questions for you, but do you already know what indications Transparency International has based itself on for the report? Does the Defence Staff have a proposal with necessary actions? If so, which one? If not, when can we expect it? How will the specific recommendations be dealt with? Have any new developments been discovered during the presentation and discussion of the report on 17 February? How do you see the further collaboration with Transparency International? What lessons do you draw from the colloquium? How do you see the follow-up, for example with a follow-up report from Transparency International?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u11	Mr Buysrogge, in July 2014, Transparency International provided a list of 76 questions in total, in various domains and divided into five headings, in particular politics, finance, staff, operations and the purchase of equipment. Those questions were answered in the best possible way by the Defence Staff, and I think we can assume that Transparency International has at least partly based itself on them for the report, but we do not know whether Transparency International has also spoken to external people. In the run-up to the seminar on 17 February, we were in fact both present there and the Defence Staff commented on the report and recommendations, but we have not yet agreed on an action plan or have not yet received a proposal for an action plan. Defence can and will certainly take action on its own, for example with regard to additional accents in the formation of military personnel leaving for an operation, or an adjustment of the promotion system, which is, moreover, ongoing. For other recommendations, for example in relation to public procurement legislation, this is a bit more complicated and often supranational rules prevail. In addition, for example, the fact that the Committee for the Army Purchases of the Chamber meets behind closed doors is seen by Transparency International as a lack of public debate. I do not know whether we should always fully agree with these findings, although they are of course third-party findings, which we should always appreciate for what they are worth. During the discussion of the report on 17 February, the focus was solely on public procurement and not on the rest of the operation. Public procurement is certainly susceptible to fraud, but I do not remember any significant problems from the past few years in the defence sector. With the implementation of the strategic plan, we are faced with a number of important procurement contracts, to which reference was also made on 17 February, particularly with the fundamental evolution of international legislation since the previous similar cases. The government will take the necessary decisions in this area and, if necessary, legislative initiatives to ensure that everything is done in accordance with the rules. Transparency International has already announced a follow-up study. I am confident that it will even lead to a better result than it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u12	Mr. Secretary, that trust is a credit to you. I would like to stress once again that transparency of procedures and internal control are quite rightly attached to the importance of transparency by Transparency International and by Defence, including yourself. There are a few handles offered, and we have every advantage of grasping them. Thanks to the Peace Institute and TI, this work is being done. Fortunately, however, this is also done by Defence itself, regardless of whether or not international reports are published. Transparency, internal control, codes of conduct and clear procedures are of great benefit to us. Minister, you said that there is no action plan yet. May I draw your attention to the fact that there will still be an action plan, or is it contained in the procedures that are being worked out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u13	In my preparation for the meeting of 17 February 2016, Defence states that we have discussed the issues and whether or not comments have been made. Rather, informal work can be done in the short and long term. There is therefore no formal action plan. The fact is that the general concerned, who was also present on 17 February 2016, is very aware of what needs to be done. Now that you are proposing it, perhaps it would be better if we formally agreed on what we are working on. There is, for example, the fact that the Army Procurement Commission is meeting behind closed doors. Well, I don't want to change that. We can always have the public debate. I do not see the need for a change in this respect and do not see how democracy would be better served by a general public debate on every detail of each purchase above a certain amount. I understand, moreover, that the Chamber has made a number of proposals in this respect, and I have commented on them. We will continue in this regard shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 9717 is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, on Friday, February 19, the Defence online portal was attacked by hackers and its access was rendered unavailable. This attack was preceded by a general ultimatum broadcast on social media by a group of activists called "Down-Sec", without providing that specific targets were disclosed. Within the obvious limits of what you can reveal about security protocols, I would like answers to the following questions. Did Defence computer services identify the exact nature of the attack? What lessons have been learned from the gaps in online portal protection? Have any means been found to prevent this type of intrusion in the future? Has a complaint been lodged with the judicial services concerned? Are you optimistic about the identification of the perpetrators of this computer attack? Finally, can you tell me if any damage has been caused, particularly in terms of access to confidential data? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u16	Madam President, Mr Calomne, an attack called "Distributed denial of service" (DDOS) was carried out on the website www.mil.be and was intended to make service impossible. In the case of Defence, the site, hosted by Proximus, contains only information intended for the general public. It is therefore clear that there has been no leakage of confidential information. It's important to know that. DDOS is a type of attack that can be carried out against any public sites. That is what happened, since the Prime Minister's site and others also suffered. However, it is very difficult, almost impossible, to protect against this kind of attack. This would be extremely expensive and we can never rule out the possibility of an attack. The most important thing is to be in direct contact with the provider. This is what was done and within two hours, the necessary was done to make the service up to date again. With regard to the perpetrators of the attack, the federal police have undertaken research on them, based on the complaints and information received. Rather, this is a matter for my colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for this reassuring information, since the most important thing is that the confidential data have remained confidential and that only the data to the general public have been reached, although it is nevertheless regrettable. Indeed, this undermines the image of the State and our public service. It would, however, be happy to try to prevent this from happening again, in particular by strengthening contacts with the supplier. But since in two hours the problem has been solved, it is still positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u18	Mrs Van Hoof has stated that she is on another committee and I expect her to come and ask her question a little later. Mrs Pas is not present and has not notified, so her question No is deleted. 9685.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u19	Mr Hellings has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u20	Minister, two months ago, I denounced the "credit gift" that the government had given to Defence. As a reminder, the government agreement provided for the development of a "long-term strategic vision" – in this case, for 2030 – for the future of National Defence. After several months of delay, on December 22, the members of the government agreed on the main principles and investments of the strategic plan. Then, on 13 January, you came to the Chamber to present this vision in a detailed power point. I note that we have not always received any text. In La Libre, however, we learn that this presentation would never have received the approval of your government partners. The reactions of a deputy prime minister describing certain parts of your presentation as idiots are probably proof of this. According to last December's government notification, you were supposed to come and present the finalized strategic plan to the government by Friday, February 26. However, this point would have been postponed once again. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Could you explain to me in detail the formal and accurate decisions taken by the government at the December Council of Ministers, both at the human, material, strategic and budgetary level of this plan? How do these decisions differ from the presentation you made to our House? When will the final and comprehensive strategic plan be adopted by the government and presented to the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u21	Mr Pirlot, I appreciate resuming this discussion every two weeks. Earlier this month, I presented – through the Defence Future Policy Working and Coordination Group – a proposal for a text for the strategic plan, comprising about 100 pages. The time required to agree on a project of such magnitude is the collective responsibility of all parties. The presentation in committee of the decision taken in Kern constitutes my prerogative as Minister of Defence, in the context of a transparent communication of an important choice concerning the future of this sector. As I said last time, I have not said anything that goes against the Kern's decisions of 22 December. Absolutely nothing! I presented the NDP as an option, stating that no decision had yet been taken in this regard. Mr Pirlot, for further details, I refer you to the answers given to the oral questions by Mr Pirlot. Dallemagne and Top dealt with at the February 17 commission and included in the full House record. The Policy Coordination Working Group meets regularly, more than once a week. The reorganization and rationalization of the various Defence locations is an important topic on the agenda of this working group. The information necessary to deal with this subject is available to the members of this working group. Following the preparation of this dossier at the working group level, the government will decide on the reorganisation of the settlements as soon as possible. It is important that Defence staff quickly have a clear vision of their future workplace. You're right, and that's also my opinion. However, such a decision must be carefully considered. A reorganisation of the defence quarters must first meet the needs of the Defence Capacities portfolio of the strategic plan, while aiming for efficiency and effectiveness through cost reduction. It goes without saying that this reorganization will do everything possible to avoid under-exploitation of this high level of defence. Each additional opportunity to save operating costs on these neighbourhoods will be taken into account, including the possibility of sharing neighbourhoods with other federal agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u22	Minister, thank you. It's weird, but I expected that kind of answer. I am struck by the fact that some vice-prime ministers would not have really understood. But rest assured - you know that I am making constructive opposition - rather than coming back every fortnight with the same questions, I'm just going to suggest to you a little something that will save you time: change the title of the strategic plan by postponing the deadlines to 2030-2045, so the government will have a little time to finalize its internal agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u23	Madam President, Minister, last December, the government presented its strategic plan for National Defence. In this plan as communicated, as well as in the presentation to our assembly, however, several aspects were absent. This was the important training aspect of our military, particularly non-commissioned officers and officers, and thus, de facto, the future of the Royal Military School (RME). The ERM, however, is an essential element in the functioning of our Defence, in the training of our military throughout their careers but also in research and scientific and academic exchanges at the Belgian, European and even international level. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions: what is your vision in your strategic plan for the academic training of non-commissioned officers? At the officer level and within this framework, what is the future of the Royal Military School? Will it be maintained as a fully-fledged institution in its current status? Is its existence guaranteed in the future or are you exploring other avenues such as, for example, the use of civilian universities to provide this training? What about NCOs? Is there a timetable for determining the future of the MRE for all its missions (including exchanges with partner countries, for example) beyond the training of officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u24	Mr Pirlot, as you know, the efficiency of the various processes is being examined in order to achieve an optimal distribution of the various personnel within the envelope of 25,000 staff members by 2030. One of these studies focuses on the training component of members, regardless of their category of personnel, and therefore not just the MRE. All aspects of training are examined in this study and all avenues remain open. This study is still under way. Therefore, it is impossible at the moment to answer your questions more accurately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u25	It's weird, but I expected that kind of answer. I will therefore have the opportunity to come back to this matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u26	Minister, it is time for the annual question on the military police. Mr Top has asked a question about this in 2014, Mr Klaps in 2015 and I am now in 2016. The coalition agreement provides for the extension of the powers of the military police, in particular the power to act in the event of traffic breaches. However, there is also scope for an extension in the field of surveillance orders. Although this is a matter to be discussed within the government, I would like to ask you, now that your strategic plan has been completed, for a state of play on this issue. Has the strategic plan also considered extending the powers of the military police? Are there any steps that Defence can take in order to achieve this in practice? Has the talks started within the government or with your colleague, Minister Jambon? If not, when do you expect this to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u27	Mrs Grosemans, we must be careful not to confuse things. The strategic plan aims to determine capacities and levels of ambition. In this context, it does not concern the tasks of specific units, including the military police. The role and powers of these units will first be examined by the Defence Staff and will be part of an implementation plan. A consultation on the definition of the powers of the military police is still to be launched. I am well aware that this is part of the coalition agreement. We have requested a number of preliminary cases from the defence staff, but we would like to finish the big story politically first before dealing with these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will come back to this later, but will not wait until 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u29	Madam President, Minister, it is reported that a new proposal would be put forward to review the officers' engagements in the sense that an officer could take less leave. Is this news true? What will be the content of the new proposal? Was this discussed with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u30	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the news is not right. A new system of leave for officers is being developed, but this does not mean that the number of days off will be reduced in itself. I am aware that there are currently no clear and unambiguous rules for officers, which creates inequalities. I refer, among other things, to my reply to the written question No. 492 of 8 December 2015 by Mr Clarinval. In order to overcome these inequalities, I asked the defence staff to examine this issue so that we could apply the same right to leave for all officers, regardless of their place of employment. As a result of this study, the following guidelines were requested to be integrated into the proposal to be submitted to the representative military trade unions for negotiation. I have a number of policies and ideas on the subject. I'll share it with you. It is also true that this story has been blown up by a new military trade union, which saw in it during the political days the opportunity to get the news and to create some confusion. Firstly, the alignment of the system applies to the petty officers and volunteers who are 30 working days' leave. The great confusion one tries to sow concerns the working days. When other figures are quoted, it was generally in days. For example, if someone took leave from Friday to Monday, he would have lost four days. So an extended weekend took more days. I'm talking about working days now. In addition, there are additional days of leave to be granted on a flat-rate basis, namely five, taking into account that the officers are not bound by the 38-hour week and therefore do not build up recovery hours. As you know, the Corps Commander used to be able to decide to assign additional recovery days. That did not happen in the same way everywhere and was therefore rightly charged. I have been asked, also by a number of trade unions, to take a look at this. We will make a proposal in this respect. In any case, we are working on a proposal which will be discussed in due course with the representative trade unions, a number of which are present here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u31	Mr President, of course we welcome the fact that this is being looked at in a serious way and that your proposal to eliminate inequalities in this area will also be discussed with the trade unions. I have another question about timing. Do you have any idea when you could come up with a proposal to the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u32	Mr Yüksel, I know that there is an agreement on when to deal with something, but I myself do not know that timing by heart, for which I apologise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u33	Yes, but when will you come up with a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u34	We have a text from the defence staff, which we will now present to the unions on Friday. That's the normal way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u35	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9815 and 9817 by Mr Dallemagne. However, he is not present and has not notified, which means that these questions lapse. The same applies to his questions. 9816, 9818 and 9819. This is, of course, annoying for the people who had to reply to all these questions yesterday in the last instance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u36	Minister, what do you think of your group leader De Roover's proposal to take military action in Libya? The proposal referred to possible support for ground troops. How do you see that within the wider international framework? Will Belgium wait for a UN mandate or will our country in Libya support the active allies, namely France and the US? I also have a more political question. What elements are in favour of urgent intervention in Libya at the moment, compared to a more logical participation in such intervention, in the sense of cooperation with the Netherlands? It is very specific about the assignment that the Dutch F-16 officers are currently carrying out over Syria. It's not quite clear yet whether we're going to continue those operations. From July onwards, we will be reappearing on the stage with our F-16 pistols. Given that situation, what is the difference between Libya and Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u37	Mr Yüksel, once again it is a commendable attempt to provoke me to speak on points where I have not made a statement. If you have any questions for Mr De Roover, I think you should ask him yourself. I can also recommend reading further than the title. You obviously did, if I can believe your question, but still. For my part, I can formally tell you that the situation in Libya is an effective cause of concern and requires our continued attention. The Defence Staff are therefore following the situation very closely. Intervention in Libya is not currently on the government's agenda and, if it were to impose itself, would be the subject of a government decision, as is always the case in such cases. Once again, I would like to stress that any military intervention requires a concert between Foreign Affairs and Defence, to see what, firstly, is the opportunity and, secondly, what the possibilities are. I repeat that this is not the case today. At the moment, there is no official question of participating in an operation in Libya. The item is therefore not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You may be surprised, but I have already addressed my colleague on Monday. I am simply asking you to respond to the proposal of a colleague and leader of your group here in Parliament. I take it he's not just launching the idea. That is why I asked for your appreciation of that matter. I also share your analysis, namely that we must keep a close eye on matters and that there is no official or unofficial issue at the moment. In any case, I wanted to hear your point of view, because the proposal comes from your group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u39	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne would not be here, but he is here now. Mr Dallemagne, I will answer your questions. Madam President, my body had already set itself up at a speedy end of the committee. So could you suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u40	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u41	Madam President, Minister, by 2018, Belgium will have to select a replacement for its F-16 fighter-bombers. The stakes are important and several criteria will be taken into account. I would like to have some clarification on a specific issue, that of the possible economic impact in Belgium. Indeed, we know how beneficial the F-16 contract has been for the economy and employment in Belgium and how it has supported the development of a leading aviation sector in our country. Some even felt that there was a return of two to three times more in terms of economic benefits than in terms of initial investment. We also know that European rules are now stricter. Several things, often imprecise and contradictory, have been said in this regard. The industrial sector concerned is concerned about this and asks policy makers to clarify matters legally as soon as possible. According to some, Directive 2009/81/EC on sensitive public procurement in the field of defence and security would seem to simply proscribe the practice of economic compensation negotiated so far in the most important military contracts. However, it seems to be forgotten that several exemptions are provided for in European texts. On the one hand, Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) states, inter alia, that "any Member State may take such measures as it considers necessary to protect the essential interests of its security and relating to the production or trade in arms, ammunition and war material" and that in this context, other provisions of the Treaty (including free competition) need not necessarily apply. However, in order to implement this exemption, the State concerned should really justify it. What arguments can be validly used to invoke Article 346? What do other states do? What is the case law of the Court of Justice in this matter? On the other hand, although it has rarely been mentioned so far, there is another exemption, which I think is even clearer, and which is provided for by the directive itself. Indeed, the directive states that if purchases are made from government to government, the directive should not apply. Therefore, since it has been formally decided and announced by the government that the purchase of the successor of the F-16 would take place from government to government, through the corresponding state agencies, there is, in my view, every reason to believe that this exception provided for in the directive itself will apply and will therefore allow the free negotiation of these famous economic and industrial benefits in Belgium. Minister, is that your analysis, too? Does this exemption make it possible to negotiate economic benefits for our industry? Perhaps it was this possibility that guided the Belgian choice in favour of this government-to-government procedure? My second question relates to the investments to be devoted to the replacement of the F-16s. On December 22, the government announced that it had approved the Defence Strategic Plan. Since then, there has been a lot of debate: was it really a strategic plan? In any event, you announced that Defence would have an envelope of €9.2 billion by 2030 to finance a series of important and increasingly urgent investments. Specific references were made to 34 fighter aircraft, 2 frigates, 6 mine fighters, 6 drones and various equipment for the earth component. Minister, can you tell me exactly what part of this EUR 9.2 billion will be spent on the purchase of the successor of the F-16? At your presentation in committee on 13 January 2016, you mentioned the figure of 3,593 billion euros. But we know how much this presentation has been questioned in the ranks of your majority. Some members considered that this was not yet a final strategic plan. In addition, at his presentation on 24 February, Colonel Harold Van Pee quoted amounts that were not around the 3,593 billion you had announced, but around 5 billion euros for all the investments needed to buy new aircraft (aircraft, infrastructure, spare parts, armaments, training). In all, in fact, it would be an envelope of more than EUR 5 billion that should be devoted to the acquisition of the successor of the F-16, which ultimately leaves much less room for other equipment. What exactly is the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u42	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, first of all, I would like to point out that we have not announced anything about buying. We are not yet in phase 2. The Defence believes that it would be appropriate, for operational reasons, to use a government to government procedure. Defence specialists, in close cooperation with the specialists of the SPF Economy, are exploring modalities to maximize a return for Belgian society. The use of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is examined in particular. The legal basis and modalities will form part of the file for starting the next phase, known as the programme phase. This file will be submitted to the government for approval. I broadly share your idea about government to government. That is why we are studying today the best way to approach the market. During the presentation to the Defence Commission on 24 February, the staff referred to the concept of capability transition cost. This cost covers all costs directly related to the successors of the F-16 (investment, operating or personnel costs) over a 12-year period from 2019 to 2030. This capacity transition cost is estimated at €5.1 billion. In this amount, the part related to the initial investment amounts to EUR 3,526 billion. In my presentation in committee on 13 January 2016, I referred to the amount of EUR 3,593 billion. This amount relates to investments in air combat capability, i.e. for the F-16 and its successor. In addition to the initial investment of 3.526 billion for the successor of the F-16, my plan also foresees that €67 million will be spent on investments aimed at ensuring that the F-16 can remain operational until 2028.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you are now trying to reinforce the idea that these exceptions provided for in Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the procedure from government to government can be used. That's your strategic line. That you wish to consolidate this base today seems to me to be good news. This is very important for the sector, for the economy of the country, and to legitimize this acquisition in the eyes of the population. As far as costs are concerned, I understand the difference between the figures. It still seems to me, minister, that the $5.1 billion includes investments. Infrastructure, spare parts and armaments will have to be adapted. Here too, a share is to be regarded as investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u44	Yes, but the plan focuses on investments directly related to capacity. For example, the first weaponry is not part of the initial investment file, but is included in the operating costs. This issue is therefore dealt with in another way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u45	Is this included in the $9.2 billion envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u46	Well, that's a good plan, but not in that envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u48	Madam President, Minister, I would like to have more details on the rules that apply to supersonic flights over Belgian territory. In fact, sometimes F-16s cross the sound wall in our airspace and then make this very characteristic "boom" sound for miles round. This kind of incident legitimately worries many of our fellow citizens, some fearing an explosion in the surrounding area, others a plane accident or even a violent act. In the current context, this does, in some cases, raise some concerns. Emergency services then receive calls, sometimes in large numbers, from citizens who are somewhat stressed or sometimes dissatisfied with this rather particular noise nuisance. Minister, can you tell me how many times one of our F-16s - or foreign aircraft, if that is the case - has crossed the sound barrier over Belgium over the past year? Is there a regional/provincial distribution of this type of incident? How does Defence justify these supersonic flights? In what context do they occur? Are these emergency interceptions or simple routine exercises? In the case of exercises, can't such flights take place over less inhabited locations? I mean, for example, that Canadian pilots are forming in totally uninhabited areas and that other NATO countries are going to do their exercises there, so as not to hinder the people. Does this type of provision exist in Belgium? In short, what is your policy in this area to try to minimize the nuisances associated with these flights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u49	Madam Chair, Mr. Dallemagne, supersonic flights are only permitted under specific circumstances, namely, as part of an emergency interception (quick reaction – QRA) and as part of flight tests after maintenance activities on the aircraft. As part of the training, supersonic flights normally take place abroad, in appropriate areas, as you mentioned. As maintenance activities take place in Kleine Brogel, Florennes and Charleroi (SABCA), flight tests must be carried out in Belgium. In 2015, there were 86 supersonic flights lasting 2 to 3 minutes, 72 after maintenance activities on Belgian fighter aircraft and 8 after maintenance activities on American fighter aircraft (at SABCA). A QRA interception flight passed the sound barrier and 5 accidental supersonic flights were recorded in Belgium. It's not normal, but it happens. With the exception of QRA interventions, there is a well-regulated framework for all flight tests of maintenance activities in Belgium. Supersonic flights are permitted only on working days between 8 a.m. and 12 p.m. and between 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. They are not allowed above large agglomerations and, finally, they are only allowed above an altitude of 12,000 metres. Given the congestion of air traffic in Belgium, supersonic flights are carried out in military training areas, in the North in the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg and in the South in the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg. In coordination with civilian air traffic control services, supersonic flights can also be carried out in a corridor connecting these training areas. In 2015, 18 flights were made in the North Training Zone, 38 in the South Training Zone and 29 in the corridor connecting the areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u50	Minister, I can only encourage you to minimize nuisances and to ensure that these flights take place as much as possible abroad. You did not resume the number of flights abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u51	They're training robberies. Training takes place abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u52	In which countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u53	In the United States, Morocco or Canada. This is not recorded because the airspace allows for supersonic flights, while it is forbidden in Belgium for our pilots. Every time this happens, there's some kind of punishment for the pilot. Even if we pay attention to this, it may happen in the heat of the battle. Actually, you don't feel anything. This sometimes happens during a manoeuvre in which the gases are put to the full to get away from the opponent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u54	Thank you for being vigilant that this happens as often as possible when it is not necessary for post-maintenance testing purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u55	Madam President, Minister, on 3 February your Foreign Affairs colleague Didier Reynders indicated in an interview with France 24 that Belgium could participate in an interposition force in Burundi if such an initiative were to emerge. In view of the continuing deterioration of the situation on the ground, the worsening of violence, the ever-increasing threats of civil war or – worse – ethnic conflict, a return to calm seems, alas, rather unlikely. Therefore, the dispatch of a peace force to Burundi seems increasingly essential, whether within the framework of the African Union, the European Union or the United Nations, in order to guarantee the security of the civilian population and to convince everyone not to use violence, but rather to agree to dialogue. Is this also your analysis of the current situation? If such a force of interposition is in place, then the question of Belgian participation will necessarily arise. What is your opinion on this issue, as Minister of Defence? How could Belgium contribute to such a force? Do we currently have operational capabilities and capabilities to engage our military in Burundi? According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Belgium "does not necessarily contribute" to such a force by operational military personnel; the support could be logistical in nature. Can you tell me what forms such logistical support from Defence would take? Minister Reynders indicated that a possible Belgian contribution would be limited to logistical means, with a view to acting in accordance with the recommendations adopted by the Senate in 1997 following the assassination of the ten para-commandos in Rwanda. In particular, they stated that "it would be desirable for Belgium no longer to provide troops to United Nations operations in countries with which it had once maintained colonial relations". On this point, your colleague – and this was not the first time – did not hide his willingness to violate this recommendation by stressing: "I have often referred to the fact that we should revisit this idea that we would no longer intervene in former colonies or countries under mandate. It's a mistake. Politically, we do so very strongly. If we were to help with the dialogue, we would. If we were to help set up an interposition force, we would also do so." As Minister of Defence, do you also plead for a review of this policy? Is this an official position of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u56	Mr Dallemagne, the security situation in Burundi is closely monitored by the Defence Staff. The potential sending of an interposition force, whether within the framework of the African Union, the European Union or the United Nations, must be decided at international level. A possible Belgian participation, the nature of which cannot be determined at present, will always be decided in consultation with the Government. The revision of the recommendations of the Rwanda Committee and of the policy of sending Belgian troops to former settlements in a UN framework is currently not on the agenda. This is only possible in a concerted manner within government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u57	Minister, I have not received many answers to my questions. I simply ask you what are the capabilities, what are the forms that such intervention could take. I know that you are always extremely careful, but your colleague the Foreign Minister seems to be much less careful. It is the armed forces that are under your authority that will be mobilized. It seems to me important and useful to question the Minister of Defence following the statements of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I find it not very responsible to make such statements if we do not know at all how, in what form, and if we have the capacity to do so. You should talk about these issues. With regard to the revision of the resolution on our interventions in Central Africa, I would like to have some clarification. Your colleague regularly tells Parliament that this resolution should be revised, that we should reconsider our view, and you seem to say the opposite. I have tabled a motion for a resolution for a debate in the Defence Committee. I hope that this debate will take place quickly and that we can clarify this issue. We have learned a lot about our interventions in Central Africa since 1994. Today we are acting differently. I think we need to be able to clarify that in the future we could again consider interventions, subject to certain arrangements. It is not possible to have within the government a minister who says yes and a minister who says no on the same issue. I think that Parliament can be the right place to clarify these positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u58	Minister, since 2008, our country has been training army units for the Congolese army. More specifically, these are three battalions for the rapid Congolese intervention force. Two of them performed particularly well in the fight against the rebels of M23 in eastern Congo in 2013. Last year you announced that their work would be evaluated and that any adjustments would be made. What is the current situation with the battalions trained by Belgium? Has the evaluation already taken place? What were the conclusions of the evaluation? What adjustments may be made? What decisions were taken on the budget? What are the military activities of our country in Congo for 2016? Are new training courses of battalions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u59	Mrs Van Hoof, the battalions trained by the Belgian Defense Department are succeeded by the Belgian military who are present on the brigade staff to which these battalions belong. The defense attaché in Kinshasa and several staff officers have also been able to visit the three developed battalions. It has been established that the Congolese armed forces are able to provide self-training to the soldiers of their battalions, subject to supervision and coaching by Belgian specialists. It was proposed to the Congolese authorities to introduce an operational break for the battalions deployed. That should allow the units to be reconditioned in their position. We made that recommendation on the basis of the evaluation made. Those battalions do a good job and are used very often. Unfortunately, due to this active commitment, there are also losses to note. So they should be able to catch their breath a little bit, because they are being used too much. The budget for our direct support to the construction of the Rapid Intervention Force is reduced in 2016 compared to 2015. It is about direct commitment; we have put our emphasis more on coaching and assisting than on direct commitment. The planning of military activities in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2016 mainly includes the continuation of the guidance of the brigade staff, of the management staff, the formation of a genius company, the coaching and formation of each of the battalions and the continued support of the housing projects FAMIKI and FAMILO carried out by Congolese military, projects to give a place to the families of the battalions. In addition, a Belgian company will perform a joint exercise later this year with our coached brigade. No new training of battalions is currently planned for 2016. The planning of military operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2016 was included in the 2016 Plan of Operations, which was approved by the government and discussed in the Defence Committee on 27 January. For more details on the numbers and budgets, please refer to the answers to the oral questions. 8019, 8454 and 8898.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic350x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that this is not stopped abruptly. All the reports I read on this subject at various levels, including by Pax Christi, are praised for what the Belgian Defence has done there. It is also good that the coaching is linked to the housing projects. After all, it is common knowledge that soldiers sometimes turn to the rebel forces, because they get better housing or better income there. That is the situation there. Further supervision and guidance is needed to control the situation there. It would be a pity if well-educated battalions were transferred to the rebel groups, because then the support we have given would be lost. That should not be the intention, given the tense situation today with the presidential elections in Congo. Anything can shift there. It is good that we can keep an eye on the situation there through supervision and be kept informed.
