ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u2	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1868/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this proposal. (1868/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this proposal for rejection, after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u3	Mr President, I refer to the written report of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Poncelet for the conciseness of her report, in which I saw no fault. It was perfect. This will allow me to elaborate more fully on this excellent text of resolution which, unfortunately, the majority considered useful and essential to reject. Mrs De Coninck knows how sad I am today. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of SNCB has inflamed this Parliament on a number of occasions. We know the problem of the drastic cuts by which this government, to which Mr Miller collaborates, has put SNCB and Infrabel in a very difficult situation from a budgetary point of view. But here, the government seems to be spending the summer trying to replace Mr Cornu, who announced his departure at the end of August, but who will probably have to stay a little longer as the government has agreed on a procedure that will take some time. We know that the issue of governance at SNCB and Infrabel - the CEO, but also the presidency that a certain party, which I will not designate, seems to be very insistent about - will occupy us at the beginning of the year. The issue raised here is that of maintaining the capacity of both SNCB and Infrabel. The attractiveness of the rail depends on its reliability and safety, which requires regular maintenance. I'll give you two numbers, my group leader is a big fan of numbers, and sometimes letters. According to SNCB's own admission, an average of 23% of its trains are permanently unavailable due to breakdown or maintenance. This phenomenon is itself the basis of one third of the delays. But the greatest concern in the long term is the state of the network, renewal, maintenance and the backlog in maintaining capacity, particularly in the south of the country. Studies by both Technum and the École polytechnique de Lausanne announce, with unchanged policy, a technico-economic slippage that will make the network in the south of the country unstable, in particular, but which will also impact the entire network in terms of sustainability. Since 2011, this is likely to have worsened considerably, given the successive budget cuts. Colleagues, the capacity-building position should be the investment priority. It should be rigorously and systematically analysed with a comprehensive study of the state of the network and a public report on the state of the infrastructure. Indeed, maintaining the capacity of the network means ensuring that the technical infrastructure, the tracks, the track equipment, the works of art, the catenaries, the substations, the signs and signals benefit from sufficient investment. It is from this perspective that two positions can be distinguished, namely, the one relating to the maintenance of capacity or the renewal which defines the replacement operations of the elements; and the one relating to the maintenance, monitoring and routine maintenance. At present, our network is in poor overall condition. It is estimated, for example, that one in four kilometres of track should be replaced as well as 225,000 ties. I cited the École polytechnique in Lausanne, because it was the audit commissioned by Infrabel to the latter in 2011 that highlighted this significant delay in terms of infrastructure renewal. In 2013, the Technum office estimated the renewal delay at €650 million. We can thus, ladies and gentlemen, multiply the data we have and which we could still benefit from. But that would be an insult to your ability to understand that advocacy is not enough. It's enough! Without a massive reinvestment in the maintenance of capacity, it is not only the safety of the network that will be threatened but also the reliability: the transport times for passengers and the efficiency of the rail in the interests of the modal shift from the car to the rail that we want and demand. If the renewal budgets in the new Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP) are not defined through both management contracts and choices made by the railway investment unit, the state of infrastructure will continue to be worrying and, given the structure of the network, delays will have an impact on the whole. That, ladies and gentlemen, is why I wanted the whole House and therefore the plenary to be informed of this debate on the capacity and capacity of the railway in this country. Of course, it would be very surprising if the majority groups had taken advantage of these few fine days which separate us from the committee and the vote which took place and which rejected this text and the plenary session. But, Mrs De Coninck, with others, I think that a certain remorse is in the ranks of the majority, and so it is with this desire to point out the issues beyond the problems of governance that you are far too busy at the moment, the problems of under-financing that have occupied you since the beginning of the legislature, that the debate is about maintaining the capacity of the investments necessary for investment in what? In our network's ability to live up to the day when it wants to work concretely for travellers and users this necessary and vital modal shift. My colleague Vanden Burre has again pointed out here in the House the considerable economic cost that this government's inaction entails in the transfers to the train, to the users and to the "customer service", as Mr Cornu says on departure. Colleagues, you have a few hours left to change this state of mind. I hope that earlier, you will create the surprise by supporting this text. This would make it possible for this rejection in committee to turn into an adoption in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u5	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u6	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Geerts, Peter Vanvelthoven The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1628/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this proposal. (1628/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this proposal for rejection, after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Campine is too important. Your committee discussed this proposal for a resolution at its meetings of 22 June and 6 July 2016. Mr Geerts referred to the explanatory statement: everyone, including in the Netherlands, agreed that the completion of electrification would be good for the economy. The speaker added that the completion of the works would be EUR 35 million. The government hasn't decided yet. A resolution could encourage her to do so. Following the discussion, Mr Van den Bergh recalled that the gentlemen's agreement in the majority did not propose any resolution on specific railway lines in order not to influence the negotiations in the investment cell, which should provide advice to the government. Moreover, it is not a new investment but the completion of already started works. Heer Raskin agrees with this view. Mrs Lijnen is very fond of the railway line, as she often took the train there. The speaker agreed with the objective but did not agree with the strategy adopted. Mr Marcel Cheron (I myself) stressed that he supported all the projects that would be submitted to the investment unit, provided that he had a legal basis after the second reading of the bill containing various provisions on mobility, which we will be discussing earlier. Ms. Karine Lalieux noted that the Investment Unit and the Strategic Committee had only advisory competence. Gilles Foret supports the work of objectivation and prioritization of the investment unit, which has already done a lot, he points out. He recommended that the resolution should not be voted on in order not to undermine the serenity of the investment unit's work. Ms. Isabelle Poncelet hoped that investments in rural areas would also be approved. In the reply, Mr David Geerts pointed out that he had already tabled a similar proposal for a resolution during the previous parliamentary term. The investment cell has no legal basis. SNCB and Infrabel will have to save an extra billion euros. There is also a strong interest in the Netherlands for the economically profitable project. A resolution is therefore appropriate here to remind the government of an important priority for Parliament. Recitals A to H were rejected by seven votes to four, with three abstentions. The unique point of the device was rejected in the same way. The whole motion for a resolution is therefore rejected and is without object. That concludes the report. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u8	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u9	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1887: Els Van Hoof, Sarah Claerhout, Peter Luykx, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Tim Vandenput, Richard Miller - 1563: Els Van Hoof, Sarah Claerhout - 1583: Peter Luykx I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u10	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1887/10) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1887/10) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u11	Mr President, I refer to the written report, which is very well done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u12	I would ask that anyone who wishes to take the floor also subscribes to the general discussion. Mr Crusnière, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a privileged partner country for development cooperation, but this country is much more than that. Our countries are bound by history, by the need to carry out a real work of common memory, by language, culture, expatriates, diplomacy or the socio-economic world. It is in this sense that, as President of the Belgium-DRC Section of the Inter-Parliamentary Union and a member of AWEPA, I am committed to strengthening ties and stressing the importance of the equal political and diplomatic dialogue between our two countries and, more broadly, with all the countries of Central Africa. I have already taken many initiatives with regard to both the majority and the opposition, but also with regard to civil society, and I will continue to take them in the light of developments. Whether in good times or bad times, parliamentary diplomacy cannot be overemphasized, as this resolution points out, but also as demonstrated by the partnership agreement between the Chamber and the Congolese Assembly, which had been sealed under the previous legislature. It is essential to recall the importance of Central Africa, and in particular the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in our country's international and development cooperation policy, but also, more broadly, in the European Union. And while I was pleased with the announcement of the presentation of a Central Africa note by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 6 July 2016, I am concerned that he will be postponed today by the same Minister to an unknown date. I have heard that this may be linked to the position of the Flemish nationalist party of this government, which does not see the importance of the links that unite us, such as the Francophonie. I hope, in any case, that this is not the case and that this presentation will take place quickly, as this resolution calls for. We are therefore counting on Minister Reynders to give concrete effect to demand 11 of the text encouraging "to take responsibility for giving the Ghent Lakes region an important place on the international scene, by advocating both within the European Union and within the UN for a strong and coherent policy in the Region, so that the agreed action plans are effectively implemented". Belgium's diplomatic role in this area is not negotiable. However, my concern is great, because I can only note the tiring, if not the total lack of interest, of the Minister of Defence when I regularly ask him about the aspects of military and logistical formations of our current cooperation with the DRC. Let me turn to the text that is before us today. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Els Van Hoof once again for her clear willingness to have it adopted in committee by involving the opposition. Almost all the amendments tabled by my group have been adopted by the majority. We are therefore far from the mistrust that prevailed when our Assembly adopted the motion for a resolution on Burundi. We are thus resuming the long tradition of parliamentary diplomacy. I can only say hello to him. For the Socialist Group, a clear message from our Assembly must be sent, in order to integrate fully into our work and that of the Government the constitutional issues of international solidarity and, more broadly, peace which will be at the heart of the Republic of the Congo before the end of the year. It is in this context that several groups have drafted basic texts, including the one submitted to us today, which could be amended. My group has decided to follow this path, in particular on the basis of the numerous talks it had, in particular with Monusco and Congolese civil society, during a mission organised by the NGO "Socialist Solidarity" in Kinshasa, in which I took part last March with my colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius. Our amendments were not limited to broad principles or a pattern that would be applied to each country, whatever it may be. We have tried to translate into political and parliamentary language what we have seen on the spot and the valuable talks we have had. It is up to the House to issue a clear mandate to the government and to position itself in the electoral calendar, while stressing that at this stage, no formal statement by the President-in-Office indicates that he would run for a third term, which would be unquestionably unconstitutional. A third mandate, tacit or formal, would indeed be a violation of the Congolese Constitution and would therefore be unacceptable. This would have serious internal and external consequences, insulating the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and it would risk breaking down any peace process. The current "cul-de-sac" situation in Burundi cannot become the norm. That would be dangerous, and people and the rule of law would be the main victims. In line with the positions already taken by the Belgian Foreign Minister and the European Union, and in the constant effort to enable the Congolese authorities to respect the Constitution, it is up to the international community, and in particular Belgium, to secure our material, logistical and financial commitments based on a clear political will in the leadership of the majority and the opposition. Unlike our colleagues in Ecolo who already wanted to include 2017 as a new electoral calendar in the DRC, which would therefore be unconstitutional, we are committed to the fact that our country and the international community are making every effort to make constitutional deadlines, based on a clear and intangible will of the presidential majority, the opposition and civil society, feasible in an acceptable and close manner. These commitments must be effective in order to enable the DRC to continue its pacification process and to organize the parliamentary and presidential elections as a matter of priority within the constitutional deadlines. These elections are a priority in a presidential regime such as the one in force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. They can then serve as a stable basis for further elections in a timely manner. Such an organization requires, beyond political will, considerable financial and logistical resources, which must also be provided by the international community. These means must be achieved within a clear, transparent framework, strictly conditioned by the indispensable and non-negotiable respect for human rights, the rights of the opposition, freedom of expression and the media. Of course, we welcome the tremendous work of Congolese civil society and Belgian NGOs in supporting this process, of which I have had an on-site overview. In this context, we cannot accept any intimidation of human rights defenders or the disproportionate and violent repression of peaceful movements. Furthermore, I would have liked this text to mention the fight against rape and impunity for these crimes, which are often used as weapons of war. Unfortunately, this amendment was not accepted. Having this constructive objective and recognizing the current situation, my group has proposed to go through a Belgian and European funding system organized in tranches, and through the appointment of officials to monitor these means, in particular dedicated to the rapid and satisfactory revision of the electoral register, and to enable the empowerment of their Congolese counterparts. This revision of the electoral register must in fact enable the constitutional deadlines to be respected in full cooperation with CENI, the role of which is obviously central. The passage through tranches would make it possible to effectively but positively condition the Belgian contribution to the financing of the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u14	This division into tranches that we are proposing has been accepted by the majority, and I thank him for that. The transfer in instalments would enable the Belgian contribution to the financing to be effectively but positively conditioned. The revision of the electoral register must therefore be a priority today in order to ensure constitutional deadlines and to be fully part of the electoral process. Many international experts, including MONUSCO, agree on the feasibility of such a review, with the necessary resources and support from DRC partners. Of course, such a process must always be carried out with respect for the institutions and must be inclusive and leave no one on the brink of democracy. My party is convinced of the importance of an integrated 3D strategy. I've already had the opportunity to tell you. This implies, beyond the primacy of our country's diplomatic and development efforts, that initiatives are also taken by the Minister of National Defence on the basis of collaboration with his colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. Unfortunately, however, I can only note the lack of focus, which has been done under the previous legislatures on Central Africa, by the current Minister of Defence and the absence and weakness of an integrated approach to the empowerment of Central Africa, particularly the DRC. His strategic vision, which he has presented to us, is largely stalemate on this point, and we deeply regret it. However, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the current action of Belgian Defence in its direct or indirect participation in peacekeeping operations or in advisory or assistance missions, as well as its commitments to military partnership programmes with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is up to our country to cooperate fully with MONUSCO, whose mandate has been reviewed and extended by the Security Council, as was the case in the past. Logistical support for this electoral process, as provided for in the new mandate of MONUSCO, must therefore be considered under strict conditions. By its request, this resolution opens the door to this United Nations collaboration and we will pay particular attention to it, while stressing our cooperation with the DRC in police, judicial and military matters, which will have to be assessed in the light of developments in the situation. Such a decision would enable the government to ensure coherence with a parliamentary response from the Minister of Defence for whom "Defence has made a significant contribution – and will continue to do so – to peace and stability in Central Africa through direct or indirect participation in peacekeeping operations or advisory and assistance missions, as well as through its commitments in military partnership programmes with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Rwanda." The aim is also to promote human rights, democracy, the rule of law and, of course, good governance. Ensuring the protection of our embassy and the possible rescue of our citizens is essential, but I do not think that the role of our Defence should stop at these missions to manage the consequences of a situation. However, such a decision can only be taken within a clear UN framework and in accordance with the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the events in Rwanda. Finally, the resolution addresses the important but paramount issue of sanctions at the various relevant levels should the situation degenerate from a political to a security point of view. Sanctions will have to be imposed, including targeted actions in terms of visas and assets freezes, if the situation worsens and if civilians become victims. The firmness of our 3D action against any violation of human rights and freedom of expression, democratic opposition, civil society, civilians, human rights defenders is not negotiable. If such violations were to take place, serious decisions would have to be taken, unambiguously for our country, both in financial terms and in terms of the cooperation in the field of justice and security that unites our two countries. This firmness is clearly reflected in demand No 8. However, I would like to emphasize that it is up to the international community, the European Union and Belgium to take into account, in all decisions today and tomorrow, whatever the development of the situation, the consequences of these decisions on the population and civil society. As I said, the current situation in Burundi is not a desirable option. I would like to remind you that in supporting this text, which we have largely amended, the PS Group wants to show that we are convinced that an inclusive, transparent, proactive but strictly supervised and conditioned approach must at present be the key to our relations with this partner country in its electoral process, which is expected and will undoubtedly have to see the presidential majority and the opposition working together. Lastly, the 2006 Congolese Constitution was a genuine contract between the people and the authorities, but also with the international community. Elections alone cannot under any circumstances be sufficient to justify the lasting advent of democracy. The presidential and legislative elections are an essential starting point, an important first step, but they will not be sufficient for themselves, as the needs and legitimate expectations of the Congolese are important. Congolese youth cannot be left on the edge of the road far from development. A democracy takes place every day and involves de facto respect for the Constitution, the democratic legitimacy of institutions and the inalienable respect for values such as human rights and freedom of expression, as well as just socio-economic development through strong and integrity State structures that guarantee the rule of law. A rich partnership that unites our countries must take these prerequisites into account and enable the DRC to complete its peace process. For all these reasons, we will support this text presented to us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u15	Mr President, the present resolution has a history of origin. It has been preceded by a great deal, not least a series of lengthy hearings on the situation in Congo. In our view, the output of all these discussions could lead to an initiative in the Chamber. To this end, I myself have written an initial version of the resolution, just like Mrs Van Hoof. We have put both versions together and then went to the opposition with one text, which has been discussed again. I may say that sometimes it was a bit of bric-à-brac work, but in the end we managed to reach agreement on the text. Why is that important? As an individual Member of Parliament, one can place a great deal of emphasis on one's own group. Some groups consider certain accents to be important, while civil society, Congolese actors, lay other accents, and the opposition still others. It is important that we send a signal with this resolution, because we have involved everyone in it. That's a strength. On the other hand, a number of things, which may be important from an individual point of view or from the point of view of the group, disappear a little in the margin. However, I think that this is subordinate to the signal we are all sending, in particular that this resolution is there. I do not want to fall into the oral tradition of this House by repeating in detail what has already been said in the Committee on External Relations, but I will explain briefly why this resolution is important. Firstly, the third round of elections is coming in Congo. When the initial elections were organised, it was important that they took place at all. It was the start of a democratic process in Congo. The fact that elections took place in 2006 alone was valuable. In 2011, the elections were also very important, ladies and gentlemen, because the Congolese people were able to judge for the first time and express their views on the policy pursued, the five yards, by President Kabila. That was the first democratic exercise to take place effectively on the ground. Unfortunately, this round of elections was clouded by the suggestion of abuse; some results would not be right. The Congolese thus remained hungry and were frustrated. The elections had taken place, but the result was not clear. The third round was also very important. Third time, good time, I'd say. This can show that elections can also bring about a transition, that they can bring about effective changes in the field and that a change of power is indeed possible. That is why the third round is very important. All this is the reason for this resolution. We would like to call for the democratic process in Congo to continue. We would like to call on all actors, from the CENI to the government, to engage in dialogue and to allow these elections to take place effectively. Secondly, there is also a geopolitical reason why this signal is important. We must dare to ask ourselves why the region of Central Africa, Congo, is so important to Europe and Belgium. There are a number of arguments that prevailed in the past, and it is often about a shared past. This is a rather romantic view of what we have had in common with Congo. I think this is less important today. We must approach this from a more rational perspective. That more rational perspective says that we are dealing with a huge population that is still growing. All this is accompanied by a climate change that could lead to great famine and new migratory flows. This can also lead to greater insecurity. It is important that Belgium also keeps a finger on the wrist and remains present in Central Africa, Congo in particular. Thirdly, the resolution is not only in line with the hearings and the many long discussions in committee, it is also the forerunner of a long-awaited Central African government note. We are pleased that the government has taken that initiative and that Minister Reynders has finally come to a note in consultation with the other Cabinets. We will discuss it at the beginning of the next parliamentary year. I look forward to discussing this with my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I can be very brief about the content of the resolution, about what has been said and what we want to achieve with it. You can read all this in the resolution itself and in the thousands of reports that have been published. That is why I invite everyone to read the resolution. That would contribute to a shorter, more intensive debate that could bring us to the essence, and certainly not undermine what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u16	Mr Luykx, I fully follow you. I read the resolution diagonally and follow them. You say that we should read the resolution. If, however, it is so important, then I am sorry that the text adopted and the report are only now on the benches, while twenty other drafts are before us and are being discussed. I do not think that is the right way of working when important matters need to be discussed. We are a modest group. So we cannot be present on all committees to follow the work from beginning to end. I would have liked to have had more time to read the resolution before us and the committee's report in detail, as it should have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u17	Mr Pas, the strength of a group can indeed be its diversity, but it is certainly not the case that a group could not be strong because it is small. I fully share your view that we have chosen to bring the resolution to these banks before the recess and to discuss it. This does not, of course, detract from the fact that this resolution was mentioned months ago in the Committee on External Relations and that the opportunity has already taken place many times to inform you about it yourself. However, I am pleased that, at least as far as the content of this resolution is concerned, even if it has been read diagonally, you can agree to our positions. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u18	You have the floor, Mr. Flahaux. Don't let it impress you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u19	Certainly not by Mr Dallemagne, Mr President! Mr Vice-Prime Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in which we participated on the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo delights us, as members of the MR, in many ways. Beyond the majority-opposition divides, we have been able to reach a consensus. On the basis of a majority text, to which my colleague from the N-VA referred, we opened the discussion to the opposition and adopted a large number of amendments and improvements which emanated from it. This is not always possible, and I personally am pleased that we have managed to do so in this case. This consensus demonstrates our unanimous commitment to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, that of today, to its people, both to its successful inhabitants and to those who suffer from poverty. We parliamentarians must support the efforts of the government and, in particular, Foreign Minister Didier Reynders to keep the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the international agenda. As you know, we are applying for a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. We could resume the Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2017 because of the UK's default. In September, we will discuss our strategy in Central Africa, synthesizing the actions of our various departments concerned. All these instruments will allow us to be proactive in this matter. Of course, we will have to act with tact and intelligence. What do we really want? What is the political message we want to send to our Congolese brothers, their leaders and their elites? Belgium simply wants democracy to be consolidated in the DRC. This objective, of course, exceeds that of the men and women who invest and peacefully fight in Congolese political life. We have no a priori, no preference, and we do not veto either person's candidacy. We simply want democracy to be consolidated step by step in the DRC. This consolidation requires the establishment of a good electoral mechanism, as Mr. Stéphane Crusnière recalled. Colleagues, the current president has been in office since the assassination of his father in January 2001. His assessment as Head of State therefore covers fifteen years of power. This is an analysis that every politician must do regardless of his or her level of power and the country in which he or she is located. It is to him that this exercise comes back, not to us. He must do it for his people. I recall that he succeeded his father, following the tragic disappearance of his father. The elections held in 2006 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo were the first free pluralist elections since 1960. But the re-election of Joseph Kabila in 2011 left everyone with a taste of "incomplete". Indeed, in terms of form, this election was a step backwards or a step backwards from the 2006 election. Since 2011, and especially since 2014, the presidential election has been at the centre of all debates, which is quite normal in politics. We see the same phenomenon, for example, in France. Unfortunately, however, the formal preparations for this election and the other related elections are slow to come. And we must note that after the September 2014 attempts, that after the failed revision of the Constitution, that after the failed revision of the electoral law, in January 2015, to reform the voting rules along the way in favour of the retention in place of the current president, that after last year's appeal, President Kabila to the national dialogue, we are witnessing, today, a new political maneuver aimed at not preparing this or these elections so that the people in place can retain power. Basically, we no longer seek to change or distort the rules of the electoral game, the objective seems to be to stratify the political life of the country. We are talking about slippage, thanks to the non-organisation of elections for technical or financial reasons. This slide leads, we do not lie, to the absence of elections in the DRC in 2016. This is where we are today. The Congolese population, which has been very sensitive to scenarii of postponement of elections, is obviously frustrated. The street risks shouting its anger at a political power that lives too far from its daily concerns. Mr President, in the face of the Congolese government's passive boycott of its electoral process, the international community, and in particular Belgium, remains cautious. She wants to condition her financial assistance. In 2006, the first elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had generated the generosity of donors. Ten years later, donors were much more sceptical, more reluctant to see the lack of investment by Congolese political decision-makers. They feel abandoned by the international community, scapegoat a little easy, and remain motionless. That is the meaning of our approach in this resolution. The Congolese Government has known for years the electoral deadlines ahead of it and the cost of the elections. For a long time now and tomorrow, he had to make serious efforts to make the decisions necessary for the proper organisation of these multiple elections. If we see, if the international community sees the involvement of the Congolese government, then it will support it and help it financially. But let us be clear, if the reverse is the case, the international community risks turning away from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In conclusion, we look forward to the first step from Kinshasa. We encourage him to take this first step, which guarantees the availability of the international community and our availability. No one will replace the power in place. No one will decide in the place of Congolese officials. We are here to provide technical expertise and financial assistance to a power that demonstrates its political will. Mr Secretary of State, what Belgium expects from these elections in the DRC – and this is the second point in my speech – is that they can generate a debate within this country on its short- and long-term future. I said that at the beginning of my speech. What is the record of Laurent Kabila's fifteen years as President? What is the plan of the majority and that of the opposition, which tries to regroup, to structure itself? How can we respond to the housing, employment, health and education, access to water and electricity constraints on Congolese people? How can we secure eastern Congo, consolidate the tax system and finance infrastructure? How can the Congo develop its renewable energies? How do the majority and the opposition view relations with our country? These are the questions we are interested in. Finally, I would like to conclude on the responsibility of everyone. If violence is observed and the perpetrators are known, impunity cannot be imposed. Everyone must be aware of this. I won't say any more. In conclusion, we extend our hand to the Kinshasa authorities, which must manage their country, meet the needs of the population and consolidate this country too often bruised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in May this year I visited the Congolese Parliament. The tension in Congo was cut, both by the majority and by the opposition. Although the current leaders of the Congo do not hold a high profile for democracy, a young population is particularly inclined to assert its voice. That was clear during my visit. I have had discussions with opposition leaders and it was clear that international pressure to organise elections was greatly appreciated. Today we are creating an instrument to increase international and diplomatic pressure, including from Parliament. I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members for the majority and the opposition for their constructive cooperation on the resolution. I understand that Mrs Pas has not been able to read everything. I would therefore like to clarify once again what we mean by this resolution, what things we are putting forward and why we are doing so. I make three clear observations. Firstly, democracy is early but wanted by the people. As Mr Luykx pointed out, democracy has existed in Congo since 2006. Only 10 years ago, the population was allowed to vote for the first time. It is therefore not right to expect a mature democracy. Of course, she has growing pains. She's gonna have it, too. The elections must be able to take place properly. From the international community, we must support and facilitate them, because Congo wants to go to the polls every five years to designate a new president. This momentum must be used to re-establish the fundamental values that we consider important at international level, in particular democracy and the rule of law, in the country. It is important to express the will of the people. Secondly, that will of the people is ultimately being bypassed, through the attempts at gratification, which have already been mentioned. President Kabila is at the end of his term. Since 2011, he has done nothing but try to sit down, without elections. In September 2014, there was an attempt to amend the Constitution. It failed. The majority did not accept that adjustment. In early 2015, a census was organised, according to their plans. As a result, the streets were massed, leading to brutal protests and arrests. When Kabila found that he would not succeed, he organised a national dialogue. Organising a dialogue is a good thing in Belgium or in Europe. Organising a dialogue means consulting with the opposition and the majority, but in Congo this is understood differently. Dialogue includes seeking compromises in Congo, looking for a transition to possibly organise elections. That is why the opposition and civil society are not inclined to sit around the table, because they do not want to compromise. They want the Constitution to be respected. That is what we want with this resolution. We want the Constitution to be respected and elections to be held. Thirdly, there is a high level of tension. There is uncertainty about the presidential elections and there is increasing repression against civil society and journalists. Media channels are closed, human rights activists are arrested, an increasingly loud protest voice resounds. It is also striking that young people are strongly represented in this protest, but they do not feel represented today, not by the regime, not by the opposition, and even less by civil society, which is sometimes opportunistically used. We must give young people a future and give them the opportunity to speak through elections. Moreover, not much has been done in recent years by the current regime, which has led the country to suffer from declining economic growth. There are hardly any basic facilities, the necessary infrastructure remains out and the socio-economic situation of the population deteriorates. It is not progressing and this creates tensions and leads to the disruption of Congolese society. We have already had Burundi in that region and Rwanda is leaning towards a dictatorship. If a country such as Congo destabilizes, we will feel its consequences in Africa and will have an impact in the European Union on integration. In view of these three observations, we would like to do something. We want to send a strong signal because Congo is a priority for Belgium in our foreign policy and development cooperation, because we have a strong expertise and want to play a leading role and because the international community is looking at our country to take on a role in this. We therefore wish today to present this resolution to Parliament in support of it. What's in it? Firstly, we want the Constitution to be respected. According to that constitution, Kabila cannot take on a third mandate. September 20th is a very crucial date. That is why we must vote on this resolution today so that pressure is put on the regime. Belgium supports the organisation of elections. Twenty September is the day on which, according to the Constitution, there is a call for presidential candidates. I have noticed very clearly in my contacts in Congo that there will be a high level of tension if nothing happens until that 20 September to ensure that there will be an electoral process. If nothing happens on September 20th, I fear there will be brutal protests in Congo. We can spare that. Secondly, of course, the resolution also states that the electoral process should be organised and that there should be an independent committee, the well-known CENI, which should organise independent elections with a realistic electoral calendar, which is inclusive, transparent and peaceful. On these conditions alone, we will financially support the electoral process. If this does not happen in this way, free, inclusive, transparent and peaceful, we do not intend to recognise the outcome of the election. Maybe we did that last time, in 2011, way too soon, even though we knew there were irregularities. It is quite clear in this resolution that if the process does not proceed as we wish in the resolution, we do not intend to recognise that outcome either. That is why the resolution proposes that funding should be made available in instalments only if the Congolese government takes real steps to organise the elections. It also states, of course, that we condemn the blurring, so the strategy to circumvent the electoral process. We do believe in dialogue, but not as Kabila sees it, under the influence of the international community with a panel involved, as well as civil society and the youth movement, in order to establish a credible electoral calendar. As a result, we also want a list to be drawn up as soon as possible, including, of course, those young people who are able to make their voices heard. The resolution also calls for the authorities not to undermine, threaten and arrest the opposition, critical voices and human rights activists. Making critical voices is important within the rule of law, more than ever today when we see what is happening in Turkey. People with a critical voice or opposition cannot be arrested. If we want to remember one thing about concrete measures in the resolution, I would like to stress that we are only making financial contributions if there is a realistic and effective preparation of the elections through the CENI and it is paid out in discs. We will evaluate and refocus the Belgian-Congolese cooperation in the field of development cooperation if there is no respect for the electoral process. We are not really in favour of freezing aid: within the envelope of bilateral cooperation are projects of water treatment. At that time we are not supposed to decide that the Congolese rule of law does not comply with the electoral process and we are therefore stopping the projects of water treatment or water supply for the population. That should not be the intention. It is above all those projects which have to deal with direct aid to the public authorities, which we must, of course, stop. Moreover, I cannot imagine that the Belgian authorities will launch a new cooperation programme, which should be negotiated in 2017, as long as there is no certainty about an election date and about an election process. Thirdly, my talks in Congo have shown that there is an absolute demand for development cooperation not to be stopped. After all, the population already has nothing. What is being given at that time is then taken away. What is important and what works are individual targeted sanctions, such as entry bans to our countries, freezing of funds and judicial proceedings against individuals who commit violations. These sanctions must be introduced by our country and must also be advocated within the European Union. This point is also very clear in the resolution. For the rest, we hope that elections will be held and that an observation mission from us will go there, to monitor everything closely, in order to check whether the elections are fair and we can recognise the outcome. We must be very serious about this. This requires an observation mission via AWEPA and IPU. Finally, it is important that the resolution before us today is supported by a majority of the political groups within Parliament. For me, it is the most important signal that we are not very divided here on the issue and that we are speaking with one voice, including to the Congolese Government. We must point out that it is important for us to have presidential elections, that they are organised and that the Congolese constitution is respected. That is the only way forward to a stronger Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u21	My colleagues have already said a lot, which will allow me to be brief. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues Els Van Hoof and Peter Luykx for bringing this resolution from our committee, as well as the other colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This may be the first time in this Parliament that the Foreign Affairs Committee has really worked as it should always do. In the field of foreign policy, we must always seek consensus, bring Belgium's words to the widest possible extent, and do so together. We have the same overall values, or very similar values, and we have the interests and concerns that, certainly in the case of Central Africa, are generally the subject of consensus. I welcome the quality of the debate and the opening up of a series of amendments to the opposition from the outset. We have functioned as a Foreign Affairs Committee has to do, and I welcome it. I welcome a second point: we have discussed a subject that few parliaments in the world are still addressing today, namely the situation in Central Africa. Major and serious crises are at our doorstep; they make us forget that other equally serious crises take place a little further. These crises probably have less immediate consequences for our own security and our own interests, and that may be why we forget them. But they hit thousands of men, women and children there, in countries with which we share history, human, historical and political ties. We know that Belgium's speech is still being heard there. It is important to remind him. We can sometimes say that our debates are of interest only to ourselves. However, I know that in the Congo, what we are going to say, what we have said and what we have put in our resolution will be read, sometimes with annoyance, sometimes with anger, but sometimes with pleasure and satisfaction. We are expected not to be indifferent to what is happening in the Congo, because it is our first country in bilateral cooperation, with 114 million euros spent last year. There are still 46 Belgian NGOs present on site. But that is not the only reason: our word is heard there, and we have links of a political and economic nature. What are the virtues of this resolution? My colleagues have already talked about it. First of all, we know that we are coming in a context that is already very evolved. That's right. There are precedents in Rwanda and Burundi, and we know that we need to send a clear, calm, constructive but firm signal to the Congolese authorities because the situation is changing extremely worryingly. We know that, in reality, the Congolese people will not be allowed to do so. We know that. We saw him. There's already been a series of signals. The Congolese people will not admit that the Constitution is being violated because the Congolese people have believed in their institutions, in democracy. He has already voted twice massively. It has already been shaken by the way in which the last election was carried out, has been manipulated and it must be said, truncated. This election did not ultimately represent the voice of the population and the people will not be allowed to vote on the violation of the Constitution. That is, in my view, our first message to the Congolese authorities. It is that we have heard the Congolese people and that they themselves will not be allowed to do so. Every effort must be made to ensure that there are no even worse violence and disasters in the Congo than those that occur today. It is not only the respect of Congolese institutions but also the concern we have about the violence that could escalate in the Congo. It is a clear but also constructive signal. In fact, when we read it well, our resolution proposes two types of mechanisms: that is, whenever progress is made, we are there to support this progress, whether in terms of cooperation, military cooperation or political cooperation, at the level of the electoral process, through multilateral organizations such as MONUSCO. But also, whenever the situation deteriorates in political, electoral or human rights terms, we will not allow the instruments of international relations and international cooperation to do so. This is the true virtue of this resolution. And that's what the cdH insisted on. We have tabled a series of amendments which, in particular, called for firmness in the event of extremely serious slippages, including on the issue of targeted sanctions. This seemed to us to be an extremely important element. In the original resolution, this element existed but it was very light. It could be interpreted as not acting quickly enough or clearly enough. In the version finally adopted in committee, this element is clearer. This is important, because – and I will quote one example – General Kanyama, who is the author of the brutal repressions of the demonstrations of January 2015, which caused 41 deaths, has just been sanctioned by the United States, where his assets have been frozen. Similarly, U.S. companies are no longer allowed to trade with him. This caused a great stir in Kinshasa. Everyone is wondering if it is not time to be attentive to their personal interests. Such targeted sanctions, which do not affect the Congolese population, but rather the perpetrators of disturbances, massacres, violations of human rights and of the Congolese Constitution and institutions, are instruments that we must be able to use. The British have already indicated that they will not hesitate to use it. It is sound that we say loud and clear that we will not hesitate either to use these means, especially since we know that many perpetrators of human rights violations have interests and assets in Belgium and sometimes even have Belgian nationality. That is why they must know that the brutality they commit against the Congolese population may well have an impact on their interests in Belgium. It was important for us to make this clear. Secondly, Mr Van Hoof stressed the essential nature of cooperation. It is obvious that we will not interrupt it, because it is useful and even indispensable in several sectors, but we will not hesitate to reorient it. It is clear that in the event of a violation of the Constitution during the electoral process, we will freeze bilateral cooperation. It's a very strong signal. From the end of November, in other words, at the time of the elections, the Belgian government will have to reorient its cooperation towards civil society, NGOs and projects that are crucial for the Congo. That is another important signal given by our resolution, beyond the condemnations. On these two aspects, this text has many virtues. That is the essence of what I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen. I regret the absence of the government, because it must tell us how it will integrate this resolution into its guidelines and its policy towards the Congo. I believe that this must be a true specification and a real guide in our relations with the Congo in the coming weeks and months. To those who regretted not having the report in advance, I think it was preferable to be able to send that signal even today, on the eve of parliamentary holidays, because the situation in the Congo deserves it, because every hour, every day counts and it was important that this signal be sent on time. This has not always been the case in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be brief, because the main petitioners, Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Luykx, have explained very widely what the substance is, and I am not going to repeat it. However, I would like to stress that Congo is still close to Belgium and many Belgians. If anything happens in Congo or in the region, the international community is looking primarily at Belgium. We have historical knowledge of the country, Belgian diplomacy still has a very strong network, very strong connections. There are also many Belgian companies active in the country and in the Great Lakes region. And, as already mentioned, Congo is also a priority in our foreign policy. We have to keep doing what we're good at. We do so in other areas, for example in the defence sector. That is why this resolution is important for discussion and, if possible, for wide-ranging approval. My fellow Members have already referred to it, this resolution wants the dates laid down in the constitution of Zaire to be retained and elections to be held this year, knowing that this may be a very short day. However, asking us to organise the elections in 2017 or later is a bridge too far for us. We want the elections to take place this year. If that is not possible, we are asking for a realistic agenda from Congo, a realistic electoral calendar that will comply with the Constitution. For us the deadline is 20 September, then we will reevaluate. Our resolution also makes it clear what we are going to reevaluate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the parties here in the hemisphere, the fellow Members of Parliament, and also the technical people, for the constructive preparation of this resolution. I hope that we will be able to adopt this resolution together, on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u23	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u24	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u25	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Rita Gantois, Veerle Wouters, Luk Van Biesen, Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u26	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Rob Van de Velde, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is based on the fact that taxpayers who are taxed on a flat-rate basis cannot obtain tax credits for low activity income. The self-employed in another tax system can do that. This proposal eliminates fundamental inequality. Today we are working away from this exception. Small self-employed people are important, economic and social. They want to support the N-VA Group. The purpose of this tax credit is to provide a higher net income for low-income taxpayers. We do not see any reason to justify a distinction solely on the basis of the tax system for which a person chooses. More than 52 000 small selfemployed workers, butchers, bakers, shoemakers and farmers, who are taxed on flat-rate basis, have low activity income from labour. Until today, they are excluded from the possibility of recovering up to EUR 670 from the tax administration if they can prove their low activity income. We want to reward work. Higher net income makes the financial picture of these small enterprises more bearable. Only those who do not make a declaration or who are late, and are therefore automatically taxed on a minimum profit of EUR 19 000, which falls within the scope of the income limit, will, as today, not be entitled to tax credit. This may be an incentive to submit a valid tax return in good time. This measure has a direct impact on a significant number of small entrepreneurs in the main profession who are not having an easy time. This is not only a financial but also a social measure. The cost of this adjustment is estimated at EUR 25 million in real terms. That is not negative, and not self-evident in times of shortages. I am glad that we can make this happen today. I would like to thank Minister Van Overtveldt and his cabinet for their willingness to listen and their cooperation. I would also like to thank my fellow Members from the Finance Committee who unanimously supported this N-VA proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u28	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u29	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1572/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1572/9) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u30	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u31	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 211: Veerle Wouters - 434: Peter Vanvelthoven, Dirk Van der Maelen. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u32	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u33	Mr President, at least I would like to thank all the members of the committee for supporting this proposal. I am also thinking of Mr Van der Maelen who has tabled a similar proposal and has long argued in favour of it. What is this proposal about? For taxpayers, the local receiving or valuation office is usually the first point of contact. It is also usually the first point of contact when they do not agree with their tax bill. What happens then? The objection is often sent to that office when it should actually be sent to the regional director. What's happening today? The objection is sent back to the taxpayer. The risk is that the objection can often no longer be lodged in good time. What does this proposal do? This proposal ensures that if the statement of objection ends up in the wrong place, i.e. in the receiving or valuation office, it is not sent back to the taxable person but sent directly to the competent director so that the taxable person has submitted his objection in good time. The date of the first submission, i.e. the wrong service, will be used as the date of submission. Thanks again to all the groups who supported this. It is a small proposal, but it can facilitate the lives of a number of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u34	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u35	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (211/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (211/4) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u36	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u37	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Richard Miller, Denis Ducrame, Benoît Piedboeuf, Olivier Chastel, Roel Deseyn, Gautier Calomne, Vincent Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u38	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1067/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1067/7) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the reduced VAT rate for digital books and newspapers." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the reduced VAT rate on books and electronic newspapers". The meeting's open. The discussion is open. I assume that Mr Georges Gilkinet, rapporteur, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u39	Mr President, I am speaking instead of Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, who is with the dentist. She couldn't get free. The VAT rate of 6 % is applicable to newspapers, publications and printed books. It is not for electronic media. The objective of this resolution is to ensure that the 6% rate is aligned because we believe that electronic media are also access to culture and essential information. It was our colleague Gilkinet who made the point about the newspapers, I would point out to be correct. This initiative enabled consensus to be reached on this motion for a resolution. The association of Belgian publishers is in favour of this because it would allow it to better resist foreign competition. The European Court of Justice condemned the French State, which had installed this reduced rate by 6%, because current legislation does not allow it. France, Germany, Poland and Italy have already called for an adaptation of the Directive. We propose that Belgium do the same. With this resolution, we call on the government to advocate that the Commission speed up the process, that Parliament follow to amend this directive and that VAT be amended in favour of certain services such as electronic books and newspapers, so that they are subject to the reduced rate. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux therefore invites you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, as was the case in the Finance Committee unanimously. It is pleased to see this dossier come to an end and thanks all the groups for their assistance, which is reflected in a great deal of unanimity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u40	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u41	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u42	Proposal for a law tabled by: Bill tabled by: Carina Van Cauter, Luk Van Biesen, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Benoît Piedboeuf
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u43	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I assume that Mr Roel Deseyn, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u44	Mr President, I thought Mrs Van Cauter would introduce the proposal. First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their support for the legislative proposal. The proposal concerns the elimination of an anomaly in the legislation. In the case of co-parenting, the tax advantage is shared up to the age of majority. The law clearly states that, from then on, the tax advantage between both parents can no longer be distributed if a co-parenting arrangement has been developed. The present bill removes this anomaly, so that the tax advantage can still be shared between both parents even at the age of majority. I would like to thank everyone for supporting our legislative proposal, which, by the way, received a large majority in committee. I hope for the same support in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u45	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u46	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (860/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (860/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u47	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u48	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u49	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I will intervene later in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u50	I'm told the Minister of Mobility is on his way. But the government is represented. The Minister will be here in a minute. The sitting should therefore not be suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u51	Mr President, I thought that we had explicitly discussed this scenario in the Conference of Presidents: Philippe De Backer would represent the government as Secretary of State. The other parties stated that some flexibility would be respected. I therefore believe that we can continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u52	I think so too, all the more so because I am informed that the minister is nearby. I must correct it somewhat, because it would be attempted to have the relevant ministers present in the discussion of the relevant draft laws. (The Minister is coming in)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u53	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Cheron, the title of the bill before us this morning is quite trivial, as it contains various provisions on mobility. However, behind this title is a profound reorganization of social consultation within the SNCB Group, which will be implemented once the project has been adopted. In my view, three major issues are related to this bill, which I will develop at a later stage. First, we feel that once again, you are not keeping your promise. This is your promise to depoliticize social consultation bodies. Secondly, you risk organising, in a way, the "chaos" in the next social elections. Thirdly, you are using the Constitution in a rather dubious way to justify the imposition of minimum service. As I just said, your promise of depoliticization has not been fulfilled. The government, however, claims that it wants to depoliticize social consultation bodies within the railways and that, in order to do so, it would organise social elections in the near future. But at the same time, without waiting for the elections to be held, it imposes the SLFP, the liberal union for those who ignore it, in the various bodies of social consultation. This decision is all the more challenging as this union represents only 3% of railway workers. We therefore have the feeling that, perhaps, the government is seeking to impose an ideological ally in the various social dialogue bodies of the SNCB group by advocating this depoliticization and the implementation of the social elections. This feeling is further reinforced by the fact that, through the new rules that will be implemented, the autonomous or independent unions of drivers (SIC & SACT) are excluded from future social elections. We have in mind what happened at the time of the prison strikes, where Minister Koen Geens used the Liberal Union to sort of break the strike movement. We might ask ourselves if you did not draw inspiration from your colleague in writing this bill. In any case, the question should be asked. Unfortunately, by imposing this way of doing things, you're playing a little with fire and you're likely to cause more wild strikes than you do at the moment. The second problematic point is the risk of these social elections being organised in a form of chaos. Indeed, the timetable you are planning in the bill before us today is simply untenable. I believe that this project is primarily driven by political and electoral considerations. It is essential that these elections be held before the 2019 elections. That's probably the reason why we can't make you hear right. My colleague has tabled excellent amendments to postpone the date of these social elections, but it was impossible to discuss this with you. However, all the trade union organisations point out that it will be very difficult to organise these social elections in the best conditions within the time frame you have chosen to impose. Minister, perhaps you have had the opportunity to reflect since our discussions in committee. I invite you to reconsider your position and postpone the holding of these elections from 2018 to 2020. Chaos may also be present, because there are a whole series of unanswered questions. For example, what about social elections in the subsidiaries of SNCB or Infrabel? We do not have a clear answer to that. Nor do we have a clear answer regarding the protection of future candidates for these social elections, protection against possible sanctions, reprisals or dismissals, especially for railway workers who are contractual today. The third issue concerns the intellectually questionable reinterpretation that you make of the Constitution, aimed only at justifying the imposition of a minimum service within the SNCB group. During the debate in committee, you wanted to be reassuring about the right to strike, but when we read this bill, we can only be worried. So you are talking about a new constitutional right, which would be that right to mobility that would be tried to oppose the right to strike. To the limit, if it was a right to sustainable, sustainable, quality and accessible mobility for all our citizens, why not? But it's not. Here, in watermark, behind what you build up as a new constitutional right to mobility, is in fact hiding this obsession for the minimum service and the end of the right to strike. I will not be much longer, minister, but I still want to draw your attention to the fact that this a priori annoyed text could really have important consequences. I am not sure that it will make it possible to improve social dialogue, a peaceful and quality social dialogue within the Belgian railways. And yet, as we both said, this social dialogue today exists and works. It has been working for many years. This does not mean that it cannot be modernised and improved, but I am not sure that by doing so, you will achieve this objective. Indeed, you impose a union that represents only itself, but has as its main asset a lot of love for blue. You do not accept any amendments that would make it possible to organise these social elections within tenable deadlines. Finally, one wonders what the real objective is. Above all, Minister, we have the feeling that the general interest and depoliticisation that you are talking about are ultimately secondary, and that your real will is above all to weaken the unions, which are considered too cumbersome, and to facilitate the establishment of the minimum service. It is a shame, and we regret it, because at this small game, no one will come out winning, neither the government, nor the railwaymen, nor the users who, in the end, will be the main victims of government intransigence. That is why, minister, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be here in the rostrum at the end of the morning on 20 July. The bill that we debated in committee twice, although in a shorter manner the second time, and that we will no doubt vote earlier, is fully in line with the modernization of rail, which was undertaken two years ago. This includes the modernization of the human resources, material and financial management of SNCB and Infrabel. It took place, as always, in the sole interest of clients, staff and taxpayers. This course has been set, and you hold it, minister. On behalf of the MR Group, I would like to congratulate you on the implementation of this project. This first step is essential for the future and the sustainability of SNCB, in a European environment which, as you have pointed out, is changing and requires effective responses. We aim for the performance we're all looking for. I will highlight the added value contained in this bill, because I did not hear it in the previous speech. First of all, there is the investment unit, which is very important to you, Mr Cheron. You know very well that it will be established just now and that it will finally enable these choices to be put into practice in the prioritisation of investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u55	Mr. Foret does me the honor of questioning me, I can't let that go. I imagine that this is an important moment for him to come here to defend a preliminary draft by Mrs Galant, which is taken up word for word by Mr Bellot. That's what we call inheritance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u56	Continuity, Mr Cheron!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u57	Yes. Often, when it comes to inheritance, the real problems are in inheritance rights. But I didn't want to talk to you about taxation, I wanted to talk to you about this famous cell. It has been a long time since successive ministers, on many oral questions in the Committee on Infrastructure, replied that "the cell will decide". It was time to create it! I would like to avoid forgetting that there is a whole series of records and decisions taken by the cell, although it has not yet been created. We are only re-establishing a factual situation that has existed for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u58	Thank you for your brilliant speech, which allows me to continue to say that this investment cell is a priority of this government. Today, we will finally be able to establish it. That's not why she couldn't get on and move on. You would have made other criticisms if she hadn't started her work. It is important that this cell be able to work and that it be established today. That is the first added value of this bill, which we will vote on earlier. Let us now return to the representativeness of the trade unions. I believe that it will indeed be improved by these social elections, which will enable the representativeness of the trade unions to be objected to. The social dialogue will also be strengthened, whatever you say, because, by reorganising these various committees, we will be able to go to the essentials and ensure that this dialogue is readable and effective for users as well as for SNCB staff. The last, and not least, added value of this bill is the improvement of good governance within these infrastructures, including the appointment of independent administrators and a mission letter that will put the rules on the table with HR Rail in the context of a social dialogue but also effective human resources management within SNCB. For these reasons, minister, we will obviously vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u59	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us, the syndical elections are, of course, at the heart of the matter in this draft law which contains various provisions. We are in favour of syndical elections. However, we have tabled an amendment to allow the syndicated elections to coincide with those in the companies that belong to the NAR. For us, that made more sense. We still do not see the added value and the usefulness of an advance. Moreover, the syndical elections only apply to five regional joint committees, which still have to be created. So we fear that you will run out of time, hence our amendments, but, as the committee said, we support the principle of the syndical elections. I asked for a second reading last week, as well as the opinion of the Legal Service on the distinction between the adopted and the recognised organisations. I also read the report, which you only want to accept the technical improvements and not the amendments of the Legal Service. You were gonna solve those cases later. I hope that the comments of the Legal Service will then be effectively incorporated into another legislative text containing various provisions, in order to further support the validity of this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u60	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Grovonius, I hope you are all right – in any case, your speech gave the impression. Minister, this is a text whose preliminary draft was tabled in January by Mrs Galant. He then continued his journey to the Council of State. It has the peculiarity of constituting what Mr Geens would call a "pot-pourri". Some of the measures that it entails do not, in my view, pose any problems. I will give two or three examples. Mr. Foret will acknowledge that, in his brilliant speech, he supported this text, which, however, contains chapters of very varying quality. I had the pleasure of recalling, with regard to the creation of the investment unit, that it had been discussed for so long that we had the impression that it was a chimera or a long-term enterprise from which we did not even perceive the beginning. This cell is now being put in place by the bill in question. The two ministers dragged this issue on for a very long time in order to postpone the complicated debate on the choice of investments and the constitution of a new IPP (Multiannual Investment Plan). The one that was developed in 2012 does not exist anymore. This morning, we talked about maintaining capacity and choosing investments. We have also referred to my colleague Geerts' excellent motion for a resolution on electrification of a certain line. These issues are very important. I am therefore pleased, Minister, that this investment unit is finally being created. She will receive the wishes of the Regions – and that's probably better. Previously, each had a kind of list of races so long that the real priorities were no longer distinguished. So we have the investment unit. To take a second example, there is the issue of independent directors. Minister, the issue of governance at SNCB and at Infrabel is a very important issue, as we could see this morning again by reading the press articles on Mr Cornu's succession. In the past, much has been said about subsidiaries, their control and their number. It is well known that the composition of the Boards of Directors, the presence of the Regions within them, the partisan presence – it must be said – on the Boards of Directors will probably occupy much of this government during the summer. Unfortunately, that will also be your case. Are we going to relive 2013, with quite special circumstances, with expensively paid head hunters to recruit possible successors to the CEO of the time who were about to leave? In 2013, the government made a first choice and then had to make a second choice because the person who had been appointed did not remain in office for very long. That's how it happened, coming out of a hat – if I may say so – Mr Cornu, who, by the way, hardly hides himself with a hat. That's the case! How are we going to live this summer? How will you resolve the issue of the OCE's choice? How are you going to solve each other's ambitions? I was talking about the N-VA this morning, without naming it, but I can do it now as we're about noon. How will you resist partisan pressure to hold strategic positions on boards of directors such as the Chair? Your summer will, in my view, be very disturbed by these questions. I would like to add here that the chair of the Board of Directors of SNCB will mainly occupy the MR. You will probably have to travel between Liège, Brabant Wallon, the south of France, etc. In any case, you will have to settle ego issues within the MR between two well-known groups that I will not mention because if I did, I would contribute to their reputation, which would be a bad choice on my part. Minister, I therefore wish you good luck. On the subject of independent directors, at the second reading, you acknowledged that it was not possible, as was written in the first text of which you were not the author, both to say that they would be designated by the general assembly - the Code of Companies - and to say that they would be designated by royal decree. Even if they are the same, even if the government is very present in the decision that will be taken at the general assembly. I have seen that you have made progress in your reasoning and that, in the future, the appointing body will be the general meeting, which is correct in relation to the Code of Companies. We understand that HR-Rail's mission letter, given its evolution, is not a management contract; it is a management subcontract. In the long run, what about the evolution of HR-Rail? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the most important element in this text is the organisation or not of social elections. I'm not going into too much detail. But as my colleague Mrs Grovonius has said, and on this subject we fully agree, the timetable is important. I am not sure that we fully agree on the social elections. We, Ecolo-Groen, are in favour of it. Counting members within trade union organisations is not a good system. The right system in social democracy is elections. This is the case in trade union matters and in democratic matters. We fully support these elections. We see the difference between the places where elections can take place. I was pointed out that there are two important bodies with regard to social democracy: the committees for protection and prevention at work and the works councils. On the one hand, we are in technique and well-being at work. In the other, we are in economic and financial information and working hours. It must be understood that tomorrow your text will not organize social elections everywhere. But this is understandable because even in the private sector, where social elections exist, not all bodies are subject to elections. In bodies such as the SNCB, the National Joint Commission will remain a commission as it is today with representation in connection with the National Labour Council. The real important element that you are inducing here is the a priori representation of the SLFP, not on the basis of social elections but on the basis of its presence at the CNT. There is a political-union link which seems obvious to me and which is contested by the trade union organisations which are now more representative of the workers within the SNCB. I would point out that the social elections in the bodies planned and the reduction to five of the regional joint commissions compared to the far too high number of the past are positive. But what we are worried about, minister, is the question of the timetable. Your schedule foresees social elections in 2018 and not 2020 as it is in the private sector, while you will then ensure that the elections coincide. On the one hand, the text says that we have to go fast because we have to set up the system. Article 18 sets out the arrangements. But the modalities are not only about how we are going to vote, where we are going to vote, with which ballot boxes or which ballot papers. Behind this, there is the issue of the protection of delegates, as well as a range of other modalities that are known about the practice and practice of trade union democracy in the private sector. How will these arrangements be organised? Article 18 tells us that the electoral procedure, the preliminary procedure and the number of mandates available will be the subject of a negotiation procedure within the Joint National Commission, in accordance with Article 75 of the Law. When the two-thirds majority in this commission is not reached by the end of 2016, the King, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, will determine the preliminary electoral procedure for the commission and the number of mandates available. In other words, if this text is voted and after it is published in the Monitor, it will remain on the National Joint Committee two or three months to reach a two-thirds agreement. Are you undertaking today, beyond the text, that if this two-thirds agreement is not reached by the end of the year, you will activate Article 18 and take a decision? You, the government, will therefore become the SNCB's National Joint Commission and you will write down the modalities for the implementation of the social elections in the SNCB group. Or, will you, with flexibility and wisdom, give a little more time if the two-thirds were not reached? Good if they are before, but the deadlines you impose, with this article 18, are obviously far too short to implement harmoniously what will be the first since the 1926 law, namely the organization of social elections in the SNCB group. So, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are enough remarks which endanger what is a priori a good idea, namely the organisation of social elections within the SNCB Group. It is for these reasons that my group, which fully supports the social elections, will vote against your text because of these modalities, the lack of clarity and the representativeness provided only by the text of the SLFP. The amendments on more harmonious implementation have been rejected in committee and unless you turn around, although we support the social elections, we will not be able to support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u61	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains a number of provisions that you have listed. Of these, two or three may attract more attention. First of all, as far as the investment unit is concerned, Mr Cheron, it is confirmation that it has already been in place for several months and that it is already operational to date. She is working; she is advancing and, on several occasions, two-level technical meetings have been held to discuss the various projects. A legislative vehicle was needed to confirm an announcement that had already been issued. This is done by this provision. One of the provisions that attracts attention is the organisation of social elections within the SNCB Group. I will answer a few questions without resuming the debate that took place in committee. Does this concern subsidiaries? No! It's only HR, Infrabel and SNCB. For subsidiaries, this is a matter of the usual consultation of private law, as they are commercial enterprises under private law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u62	If only a large part of it is railway workers who are directly detached from these subsidiaries. It's a bit special to look at them in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u63	I'm telling you what's going on. That's all I can see. As far as the very principle of the organisation of social elections is concerned, I believe that we live in a democratic state. We all recognize that. And we are here because political democracy has been expressed. I believe that social democracy must also be organised in terms of social representation. It must be said that the system of counting currently in place no longer corresponds, sociologically, to the aspirations of those who must designate their representatives. Mrs Grovonius and others referred to the fact that the liberal union is now entering the bodies with an advisory and not representative provision. He had already been appointed by the previous government in 2013 to the National Joint Committee. And today it will be part of all the joint bodies which have been simplified, streamlined, but where all the missions are taken over within the regional joint committees. Let it be very clear: we merge skills and merge organs! It's a very important element. Why did you do it now and why didn't you wait for the elections? Because, at the time of the elections, representatives of the three major organisations included in the National Labour Council will be present as future delegates. It seems to me desirable, like everything that is happening in political democracy, that all actors should also be able to organise the way in which social elections will be organised. The government leaves it to the negotiation, for 5-6 months, to organize the provisions and measures to be put in place, in particular - the scope of the negotiation is very open - the protection of workers who will themselves be candidates. We leave it to the negotiation to define all the arrangements for calling votes, setting up lists, the method of election and the type of protection that workers should be able to enjoy. If this is not a sign of willingness to work together, I do not think there are any others. Let's talk about the political link between the Liberal union and the party! I hear everywhere that the unions, whether it be the FGTB or the CSC, have no connection with the brotherly political parties. It's the same with the Liberal Party. I have no particular connection with representatives, even if they each have their flag color. You will never find an image of me paraded in a liberal demonstration. I guess that's the case with all the elected officials here. They never marched during any general strike or demonstration. Is this an act of politicization? No. It is an act of democracy to involve large representative organizations that are members of the National Labour Council. They are associated with the discussions today, in an advisory capacity. We will see in 2018, when the first elections take place within the company, knowing that the first term of office is set at six years, and that there will then be participation in the general elections of 2024. I'm going to the independent directors. The term "independent" means "independent" within the meaning of the Company Code. It is indeed the general assembly that must designate them and dismiss them, if any. Designated directors will have to meet the criteria set out in the Corporate Code. Mr Cheron, I am not particularly committed to Article 18 by promising tolerance. I let the trade unions do it. In political democracy, we are able to hold elections in 40 days; I hope that it will be possible to hold elections in 200 days. Of course, we have to put the process in place at the beginning, but at the end of 2016, despite the holidays, we are still there. Some call for reason to say that such texts should not be presented now. Everyone knew the calendar. We must participate in all debates until 21 July. That is why we are here today. I now turn to the designation of CEOs, Mr. Cheron. The procedure is under way. Our will is of course to have the right man on the right place, or the right woman on the right place. The procedure is under way according to the usual method. The aim is to try to find the rare pearl and to objectify the qualifications and qualities of the various candidates. When the time comes, the government will make its choice. We know all the deadlines that lie ahead, whether it be market opening, new governance, management contracts, IPRs, etc. Few have been the moments in the history of SNCB where it was necessary, simultaneously, to choose the political orientations, to make choices in the investment plans, the management contracts and the people who will have to carry out the boat with these new orientations, which are concerted. I appeal to each other to make their choice at the time of the vote. I believe that this is a significant step forward in a 1926 law, which was probably very good, since we are only correcting certain elements of it now. In 90 years, many things have changed, as well as changing social law, for a reality that is the object of an aspiration of all citizens. At all levels of power, and beyond the political aspect, people want to be involved in the choice of those who represent them. This project goes in this direction, but not only.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u64	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u65	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1889/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1889/6) The title was amended by the Committee in draft legislation laying down various provisions on railways." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law on various provisions in railway matters." The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Franky Demon, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u68	Mr President, our group welcomes this draft law which is part of this government's terrorist action. I am also pleased that this was supported by the committee. Anonymous prepaid cards were introduced at the time to promote mobile phone calls. We can rest assured that this objective has been achieved today. However, there is a downside to the medal of those anonymous prepaid cards. By changing phone numbers anonymously, terrorists succeed too long to stay under the radar. When the police invade criminals, she often finds dozens of phones and SIM cards. Crime gangs change phones and anonymous calling cards more often than underwear, because they know it'll be harder to track them down. Hence this bill to abolish anonymity. Mind you, it remains possible to work with prepaid cards, but no longer anonymous. We are giving the police, intelligence and judicial services a little more room for manoeuvre. Our group will therefore be enthusiastically supporting this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support. We have tried to find a balance. Prepaid cards have indeed been an important incentive to grow the market. It is also an element that ensures sufficient competition. There are about 40 operators in our country and often it is the smaller operators who work prepaid, who ensure that there is innovation and that there is sufficient pressure on prices. It is to everyone's advantage that mobile communications remain affordable. However, it is also very clear that anonymity, from a security perspective, is a problem. It took some time to find a solution that responds to both. The design tries to go as far as possible in terms of safety, but also to offer a solution that is not too heavy administratively for people who are in good faith and who will be asked to register to communicate their name to the operators. There are six ways to do that. This can be done in the shop, online or by reloading to a payment machine. I believe that we have found a solution which strikes a balance in this respect. I would like to express my thanks to all those who have contributed to this process, including from the sector, for bringing it to a speedy conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u70	Anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1964/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1964/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday 13 July the Committee on Social Affairs discussed a draft law on the abolition of the 48-hour rule in temporary agency work. In January 2012, the social partners represented in the NAR concluded an agreement in principle on the modernisation of the rules on temporary agency work. This led to a unanimous opinion. Three parts of that agreement have now been implemented. It concerns the adaptation of the rules on information and control of the use of temporary agency work, the regulation of successive day contracts and the implementation and regulation of inflow motive. That has already been transposed. The social partners have recently reached a final agreement on the transposition of the last part, the abolition of the so-called 48-hour rule and the extension of the possibilities for using electronic employment contracts. This was confirmed in a unanimous opinion. This draft law implements the changes called for by the social partners in that opinion. An employment contract for temporary agency work will now have to be drawn up in writing, at the latest at the time when the temporary agency worker joins. Specifically, the temporary agency work contract will now be signed by means of a qualified electronic signature, a qualified electronic seal or by means of another electronic signature as developed by the broadcasting sector on the online platform. A number of members of the committee underlined the beneficial effect of this draft law on both temporary agency and temporary agency workers themselves. It provides greater flexibility for both parties and simplifies the administrative burden associated with temporary agency work contracts. Some members added that this draft would also give workers greater legal certainty. Members also welcomed the fact that social dialogue was respected and respected. However, some members pointed out that the NAR criticised the provisions on electronic archiving in its opinion. These require the provider of electronic archiving or the temporary agency to ask the agency for the electronic storage of contracts by registered mail after an initial period of five years. At the request of the temp, the agreement will then be sent to Sigedis. In fact, the NAR considers this a very difficult and expensive procedure. Other members of the committee indicated that a possible solution could be found before the end of that five-year period and that at this stage the social partners had not expressed the wish to amend it. There was an amendment by a PS colleague on this point, but that was not adopted in committee. However, the Committee drew attention to the opinion of the social partners asking for an evaluation of the procedure relating to electronic archiving. The Minister indicated that the costs of automatic archiving still have to be decided by the government. In response to questions from members regarding the possible extension of this regulation to other groups such as students and to other sectors, the Minister replied that the introduction of an electronic agreement will also be examined for other types of work. However, it is less urgent there, and now it is particularly urgent for the broadcasting sector. The Minister also answered a number of questions. One wondered whether everything would be all right by 1 October, the date of entry into force. He has assured that by then people without digital access will also be able to go to the interim offices and that everything would be okay before the entry into force. Finally, on a question about informing the sector, the Minister states that the broadcasting sector has committed itself to providing adequate information and to fully finance all the costs arising from this reform, such as the development of a new platform. The draft law was finally adopted with 13 votes in favour and three abstentions. As has already been said, the amendment tabled was not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u75	Mr President, my speech will be brief, which is why I am doing it from my bench. We are, of course, satisfied with the bill that has been tabled because it is the implementation of a unanimous opinion that has been delivered in the National Labour Council. However, at the Minister's request, as changes had been made, the file was resubmitted to the National Labour Council. The Minister undertook to translate any further amendments that the social partners would like to make to this bill before it is tabled on the benches of Parliament. The National Labour Council, in its unanimous opinion, wanted an amendment to be made, which is why we have tabled an amendment in committee, which we are repositioning today on the benches of the House so that it is taken into account. The National Labour Council and all the social partners requested that there be an amendment because, in the current draft law, three months before the expiry of the five-year archiving period, the provider of electronic archiving services or the temporary work undertaking must, by registered mail, ask the temporary worker what is the fate to be reserved for the contract. The social partners believe that this solution is not fully satisfactory because there will have to be a recommended consignment for each temporary employment contract. At present, however, we are at about 11 million temporary employment contracts per year in Belgium. This will cost temporary workers around €66 million a year. On the other hand, it is known that a number of recommended shipments never find their recipient or receive a response. This is why the National Labour Council and the social partners, in the framework of a unanimous opinion, wanted a change, namely that it is the provider of electronic archiving services that retains the whole. This implies a cost. According to the Minister himself, this cost would be of the order of 600,000 euros to 1 million euros. It is a one shot because it is a matter of inflating, in the social security sector, the arrangements for this archiving. Over a five-year period, this represents a total expenditure of EUR 600 000 to EUR 1 million compared to an estimated cost of EUR 330 million for temporary work firms over five years. When we balance between an investment of EUR 600 000 to EUR 1 million and a saving of around EUR 330 million in five years on the business side, it is said that this could be relatively favourable to temporary employment companies and thus avoid them additional costs, hoping that all will result in a reinvestment in our economy and, consequently, in job creation. The PS group considers this to be a positive aspect. Unfortunately, the majority did not wish to adopt this amendment. That is why we are resubmitting it, hoping that, since the work in committee, the measure we are proposing will have been assessed by the majority, so that it will then be able to agree to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u76	Mr. Chair, the minister is absent, but I wanted to point out that today we are discussing the final part of a major project that was undertaken in 2012 and that is the modernization of the regulation of temporary work. Several chapters were voted under the previous legislature. We support this project, since it is a more for workers in terms of legal certainty, but also for temporary agencies in terms of simplifying administrative burdens. I would point out that the text in question transposes a unanimous agreement of the social partners, and that is so much better. It was important for us to vote on this today, because the sector will have to do enormous work to operationalize and pass, on 1 October, more than 10 million contracts in e-contracts. The sector must of course be ready by that date. The government tabled this project at the last minute. In my opinion, he should have done it a little earlier. That text should therefore be voted on before the end of the session and on 21 July. However, one element remains problematic for the future. This matter falls within the competence of the Minister of Employment and the Government. It relates to electronic archiving for five years, which represents a significant cost and burden for the sector. As Mr Massin pointed out, the social partners made a proposal on this subject, but the additional cost for social security of the measure they recommended to take had not been quantified. This cost is not negligible since it is in the order of EUR 1 million. Knowing the government, this cost would be borne at the expense of other policies such as time credits, measures for families, etc., which I think would be a very bad idea. That is why I believe it is preferable to provide for a medium-term evaluation, but also to look at other avenues that would not have such a significant cost to social security in order to untie this node from electronic archiving. We will therefore not support the amendment to the PS, and we call on the Minister of Employment and the Government to look at this assessment, as the social partners have requested, but also to find a solution that is favourable to all. With the exception of this point which needs to be settled in the near future, we will support this bill which transcribes the agreement of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u77	Mr President, we are very pleased that we are still able to vote on this draft law today. It's been a long time. Since 2012, there has been an agreement between the social partners to abolish the 48-hour rule. We have insisted on this very often, but the deadline has been regularly postponed. The draft law before us is the final piece of legislation to regulate temporary work in a good way. Of course, the absence of the legislative text had everything to do with the fact that one had to have a valid electronic alternative to signing a contract of employment in writing. It's taken some time, but it's here now. From October, everything should work. We would like to give two further points of attention to the further concrete development of the electronic platform. Firstly, the pre-sending of the electronic employment contract should allow the temporary worker time to read the contract effectively. This means that the contract must be sent to work at least some time before the temp leaves home. Secondly, provision is also made for the temporary worker to be able to refuse a contract. For example, if there is an error in the contract, whether accidentally or not, there should be an opportunity on the electronic platform for the temporary agency to indicate that there is an error in the contract. That possibility of refusal should nevertheless be included in the electronic platform. However, we would like to add these two reservations to the practical implications. In any case, we hope that the platform will have a spotless start in October. We hope that, after a positive evaluation, it can also be applied in other sectors, especially in the case of student labour, where abuses are still widespread. The platform could be a good tool for eliminating many abuses. I understand the concerns of my fellow Members with regard to archiving. Electronic archiving would be a better solution, but I understood from the Minister during the committee discussions that there is a commitment to settle this before the end of this legislature. I therefore propose that we take some time to settle things properly for the benefit of everyone. In any case, we hope that both temporary agency agencies and temporary agency workers will be able to implement the agreement with great success. Everyone gains from this system: for temporary agency agencies, the administration becomes lighter and temporary agency workers are given better protection and more legal certainty. We shall be happy to vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u78	Mr President, this draft law completes the implementation of a proposal that was already adopted by the National Labour Council in 2012. These were four parts, the latter of which includes electronic contracts, and the elaboration and abolition of the 48-hour rule. The social partners had reached a final agreement on this at the National Labour Council in February 2016. With the present draft law, we are making the necessary changes which the social partners had called for in their latest opinion. These amendments are made to Article 8 of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the posting of workers for the benefit of users. The last point that was discussed here is about archiving. My colleague Mr Peeters made it clear at the committee meeting that an evaluation is being discussed in the government, considering how we can respond to that observation. In any case, I would like to thank Parliament for its support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1944/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1944/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u81	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-20-54-plenair-ip123x.u82	****** Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of our work for this morning. I shall therefore close the sitting until 2:15 p.m. At 2:15 p.m., we will begin by paying tribute to the victims of the Nice attack. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 20 July 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 20 July 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
