ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, this question was submitted on 3 July 2015. The discussions on the Handipas have been going on for a long time. In 2012, your predecessor Courard had the idea to work on a one-stop shop for all questions about life with disabilities and a Handipas. He then presented his proposals to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Persons with Disabilities. The "Handipas and one-stop shop" working group was set up, but apparently not much has happened to it, probably because it looked at the plans at European level. At European level, the EU determines the rate of development of a so-called "Inclusive Card'. The EU is expected to launch a project "Handipas" allowing Member States to board. At Belgian level, the Interministerial Conference had drawn up a contextual note, so that the Handipas could be further developed at Belgian level. This would be validated at a forthcoming meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. According to our data, the working group last met on 20 March 2014. Since then, there hasn't been any news about the Handipas. Also about the Autipas, a related map, there is no further news. There were different sounds at the time. First, the Autipas wouldn't be there for fear of card inflation. A year later it was said that it would be included in the discussions on the Handipas. The Flemish Agency for Persons with Disability would not even participate actively in the Autipas because it would, in his view, have a stigmatizing character and would require too much administrative organisation. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, has the Inter-Ministerial Conference "Persons with Disabilities" met after 23 September 2013? Secondly, have the work of the working groups referred to been resumed, and specifically those of the 'Handipas and one-stop shop' working group? If so, how does this consultation proceed? Thirdly, how is the development of the Handipas and the Autipas linked to it? Fourthly, because this is always linked to the European level, what is the progress of the Inclusive Card? If that project is not so far advanced, are you going to wait for it or will you continue? Fifthly, does the Inclusive card also contain a kind of Autipas or can it be incorporated in it? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u2	Indeed, since 23 September 2013, there has not been a plenary session of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Welfare, Sport and the Family, part People with disabilities. Following this last meeting, the Working Group on "One Loket and Handipas' met on 11 October 2013, in January 2014 and in March 2014. The purpose of these meetings was to prepare the positions to be defended by the Belgian representatives in the Project Working Group on a EU Disability Card, organised by the European Commission in the High Level Group on Disability. The Inter-Ministerial Conference "Persons with disabilities" decided to link the creation of the Handipas and the mobility card at European level. On the other hand, she never discussed the creation of an Autipas, as one exists in the Netherlands. There are important developments at European level. On 30 June 2015, Ms Thyssen, the Commissioner responsible, announced that the dossier would be finalised by the end of 2016. It also stated that a budget of EUR 1 500 000 would be made available to support the Member States. The following principles were adopted. Each participating State, but not all the Member States of the European Union, would decide in which of the following areas the map could be used: culture, tourism, leisure, sport and transport. Each Member State shall decide on its own criteria for issuing the card. The principle of mutual recognition has been approved. The card will be recognised by the other participating Member States. The holder of the card will have access to the goods and facilities under the same conditions as persons with disabilities of the Member State in which the person will move. The card will be created on the basis of a easily recognizable European model. For the implementation of the project in each Member State, the European Commission will launch a project call in July 2015. That has happened in the meantime. The project call was competitive. The proposed projects were assessed on the basis of the criteria set out in the call. If the project is approved, 80% of the project could be financed with a minimum grant of EUR 75 000. It is logical that the Belgian project should be in line with the European project. That is why we have already had contact with the Communities. This led to a project proposal in which political leaders and all relevant administrations, both the Social Security Office, the VAPH, AWIPH, PHARE and the DPB of the German-speaking Community, committed themselves to providing all persons with disabilities who so request an EU Disability Card. In the meantime, I can tell you that the Belgian project proposal has been approved by the European Commission. We heard that two weeks ago. I've spoken to the National Supreme Court of Persons with a Handicap. They asked for action to be taken to roll out the proposal approved by the European Commission. We have made progress in this regard. A Belgian card is no longer necessary. It will be an EU Disability Card, where the necessary steps must now be taken to have the card ready for our own country. We are now beginning to develop its practical aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I am pleased to hear that progress has been made at European level and that the Belgian level is in line with this. I have always worked at European level in this area. I am also a great believer that such matters will have more impact and be more profitable if this is regulated at European level, provided, of course, that it is recognised and implemented at national level. I understand from your reply that this is the case. I think this is a good thing. The fear exists for too many cards and too many overlaps. Yes, but if this is settled at European level, this fear will be partly eliminated. Then there is much more uniformity. That is a step forward in this respect too. I would also like to point out side by side that I am more afraid of too few cards than of too many cards. The practice shows that this is a great help for those people. There are many concrete benefits and consequences to this. I think that policy makers should rather consider whether there are not too few or too many such cards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u4	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to what I consider to be a source of injustice to certain persons with disabilities who wish to assert their rights, if they meet certain criteria, to receive tax benefits, including the reduced VAT rate of 6% for the purchase of a vehicle. It comes to my mind that in some cases, as a result of medical expertise prior to the exemption agreement, applicants for this tax advantage are denied it for reasons - in my view - that are questionable. Let me give you the particular example of a person who is eligible but who has nevertheless been denied this tax advantage. This person has an 80% disability, a total of 15 points and is 100% dependent on a third party. It therefore largely meets the criterion which requires persons wishing to benefit from the exemption to have a disability of at least 50 % at the level of the lower limbs. Only, following the medical examination carried out by an expert of the Social Security FPS, this person was told that she could not in fact claim exemption for the following reason: the disability of the lower limbs from which she suffers is neurological and is not motorized. This answer seems unlikely to me as the dysfunction of the legs, whether of neurological or motor origin, is the same. This person can't walk anymore. Minister, do you not find it unfair to make a difference in the source of disability, when demonstrations, whatever their origin, are just as penalizing in the performance of daily duties? Should not a case-by-case analysis, more in step with the particular situation of individuals, be carried out in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u5	The VAT provisions provide for a favourable tax system (restitution or exemption from the tax) for certain categories of persons with disabilities, in particular persons with complete blindness, full paralysis of upper limbs or amputations of upper limbs, and persons with permanent disability resulting directly from the lower limbs and resulting in a disability rate of at least 50%. It is therefore not correct, as you mentioned, that a person with a disability of 80% automatically meets the eligibility criteria in force since the latter reserve the exemption to persons with infections affecting the locomotor system exclusively. For example, other categories of persons with disabilities, including persons with disabilities as a result of heart, lung, spine, brain or other organs affecting their mobility and who do not meet the above-mentioned legal conditions, are not eligible for the favourable tax system. The eligibility criteria in force are, on the one hand, strictly interpreted and, on the other hand, a uniform possibility of tax exemption for their disability or the amputation of upper and lower members is excluded because of Belgium's obligations under European law. As regards the unfairness or otherwise of this difference, I can only refer you to the Constitutional Court's decision No. 145 of 2009. The Court held that, in establishing the difference in treatment in question, the legislator had not made a manifestly unreasonable political choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u6	It's surreal, though. So if the person can no longer walk because he or she suffers from an engine problem, he or she is entitled to a lower VAT rate, but if it is because he or she has a neurological problem, he or she is not entitled to it. It's astounding as discrimination. I will read carefully what you are talking about, but it still seems to me to be unfair enough for the people concerned by this form of distinction. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, in the annual report of the Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre, we could all read about the very critical report that Belgium received from the UN Committee in 2014 on the rights of persons with disabilities. In the final remarks of that report of 28 October 2014, the Committee devotes no less than seven pages to the main concerns and recommendations, and only one paragraph to positive aspects. Among other things, the UN Committee calls for a legal framework for accessibility, with clear and mandatory objectives, plus a concrete calendar to achieve those objectives effectively. The Committee is also deeply concerned about the large number of people with disabilities placed in an institution without plans for reintegration. This is, of course, also a competence of another level, but as Secretary of State, of course, you also have the role of communicating with each other the levels involved. I know it is quite a general question, but that report from the UN Committee was remarkable. It also dates back to 2014, so I leave in the middle who bears the responsibility for this. Can you give me an overview of your concrete plans, with a timing, to respond to the criticism? In particular, I think it is important, and certainly for you, that the next report in 2019 should be much more positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u8	Indeed, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities made a number of comments following the examination of the initial report submitted by Belgium in 2011. They relate to different provisions of the Convention. However, the division of powers between the Federal State and the Communities and the Regions must be taken into account. Some of the provisions of the Convention, including the comments of the Committee, fall exclusively within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. An example of this is Recommendation 33 on independent living and being part of society, as mentioned in Article 19. As far as accessibility is concerned, the Communities and the Regions are largely competent and appropriate to implement the recommendations. But, of course, I certainly do not want to avoid my responsibility in this area. After all, there are also recommendations that the federal government must respond to. If we are to put an inclusive society first, we must also ensure that our buildings and infrastructure become much more accessible than is currently the case. I am fully in agreement with Minister Jambon, who is responsible for the Government of the Buildings, to see how we can make improvements quickly. For example, there is still a lot of work in the museums that fall within my competence for Science Policy. Moreover, in the case of renovations, the recommendations are taken into account. In the new building in Tervuren there are adapted lifts and the entrances are so furnished that even in large crowds, people with disabilities can easily enter the museum. I have also made agreements with the Prime Minister with regard to the accessibility of the federal government's own websites. It is our responsibility to improve accessibility. The actions will form part of the action plan which I will present to the Council of Ministers in the coming months. I also regularly consult with the Communities and the Regions and with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. I meet representatives every six months. They always remind me of the need for a proper follow-up of the report and of the treaty, which we have signed and which is close to my heart. I also bring the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap into contact with Accessible Flanders, which has recently become an EVA and which has a lot of study work at its disposal, which is lacking at federal level. I am also working with Minister Marghem to ensure that trains are accessible. Some orders have already been made, but in the future we will pay more attention to them. In this way, the scientific evidence already known at other levels can be implemented at federal level. I do this, among other things, through the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap, who closely follows developments and is very helpful to us. We will then have the necessary contacts with the regional levels, so that we can also address the problem of accessibility at federal level as soon as possible. Also in the renovation of the Museums of Art and History, accessibility will certainly be one of the focal points. We have to catch up, which unfortunately cannot be solved in the case of the old buildings with very small measures. We also have to take account of the fire department. I'm sure I know the pain point. It is close to my heart and I try to make all possible levels aware of it, for example in the case of new buildings or renovations, so that the building does not need to be adapted after the works. That's what I'm trying to do at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u9	That is a satisfactory answer, Madam Secretary of State. I also look forward to your action plan. Is that going to happen in the course of 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u10	Yeah, but it won't be in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u11	The problem is certainly not evident, not even at local level, given the old buildings. I hope that there will be a positive evaluation of the issue in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 7079 will be converted into a written question. Question No 7175 by Mr Delizée is transformed into a written question. Question No 7274 by Mrs Winckel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u13	I am pleased, Madam Secretary of State, because you have just mentioned the museum in Tervuren as an example of accessibility. Mrs Willaert, we opened our new leisure centre in Tervuren last weekend. We have received incredibly many responses about accessibility. This means that good accessibility is really possible, especially in the case of new buildings, if sufficient attention is paid to them. It is also greatly appreciated by people for whom accessibility can be a problem. I now come to my question on the employment of persons with disabilities, Madam Secretary of State. Last year, a Eurostat study revealed that Belgium scored less than the European average in terms of the employment of people with disabilities. I have already questioned you about this in plenary. The employment of people with disabilities in the federal government could help to improve that poor figure. The government, as an employer, has an exemplary role to play in this and will therefore have to take steps to reach the quota, which is legally set at 3%. According to the recent evaluation report of the Advisory Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Service, published on 19 October 2015, it is regrettable that for the first time in five years there has been a decrease in the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the public administration. In 2014, this was 1.45 %, which brings us back to an even lower level than in 2012, when the employment rate was 1.54 %. In any case, that percentage is very far off, more than half, from the rate determined by law, i.e. 3%. The advisory committee cites a number of reasons for these percentages, including the reduction in the number of officials and the retirement of officials with disabilities, but in my view these are not the real reasons. The explanation isn't very convincing. In your 2015 policy paper, you suggested a possible solution: public contracts awarded to organisations working with people with disabilities, such as sheltered workshops, could be taken into account in the calculation. If one sees that the situation is not improving, it would be a way of getting people with disabilities to work indirectly. Firstly, do you yourself have an explanation for the decrease in the employment figures for persons with disabilities in 2014? Secondly, I refer to your plan for 2015. Have you already taken steps to charge for the quota of 3% for the outsourcing of jobs to sheltered workshops? If so, have any results been achieved in this area? Finally, have you taken any other measures or are there any initiatives in the pipeline to achieve better results with the public authorities in relation to the quota of 3%?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u14	For 2014, the Guidance Committee for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities noted a slight decrease of 0.12 % for the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the Federal Public Service. The advisory committee itself has a number of assumptions about this. More specifically, over a period of five years, the total number of federal officials has fallen by more than 7%. The retirement of disabled workers also partly explains the decrease in the employment rate of disabled people in certain organisations. Mainly, there is the decline in positions in level D, in which employees recognised as persons with disabilities are over-represented. This may explain the decrease in the employment rate of people with disabilities. Since the employment rate is expressed in relation to the total workforce and therefore a decrease in that stock does not necessarily have to cause a percentage shift in the employment rate of persons with disabilities, we consider the third explanation of the functions of Level D to be the most pertinent. On the other hand, we must also take into account the relativity of the figures. Registration is still voluntary and the choice of the person concerned must always be respected. Not all persons with disabilities also sign up as persons with disabilities or disabilities. Of course, that is not enough and that is not a reason not to recognise the problem. With regard to the second question, consultations were launched with key actors such as Selor and the Minister's Office responsible for civil servants' cases in order to be able to implement effective measures. That is why we have also held a prior consultation with the various parties involved. Communicating on the concrete results is, of course, premature. Your third question concerned other measures. We introduced the principle of handistreaming. As a result, all ministers and their administrations will have to take into account the impact that a measure could have on people with disabilities in each policy measure. This will create a favourable framework for the target audience, which will also have to take due account of people with disabilities in terms of human resources and in terms of awards and procurement, including tailor-made enterprises. The fact that this has to be taken into account in the various policy decisions makes it possible to state that the transversal and targeted approach should in principle facilitate an increasing level of activity in the workplace. With a view to the employment of persons with disabilities in the federal government, working meetings with Selor will be held in my cabinet in consultation with the Minister responsible for Civil Service Affairs. Selor also organises information evenings for students with disabilities in the light of the Handiknap campaign to promote application and work in the government. In addition, Selor also launched new actions of the Handiknap campaign on the International Day for People with Disabilities on 3 December. New technological developments also allow for additional adjustments to the selection tests in favour of persons with disabilities. For example, Selor is working on a three-dimensional version of the abstract reasoning test, which is taken by default in a recruitment procedure. We would like, once again in consultation with the Minister for Civil Service Affairs, to develop a better registration system, which should also make it possible to obtain a better overall, anonymous but representative picture of the number of people with disabilities employed by the federal government. One area on which I would certainly like to focus is awareness and communication to those involved, both the actors of the federal public office and the associations and, of course, those with disabilities themselves. The Diversity Network and the Guidance Committee for People with Disabilities play a major role in this. Recent initiatives with the establishment of wider placement opportunities for people with disabilities also offer positive prospects for subsequent integration. Access to public buildings is, of course, also an important measure for increasing the employment of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I agree that the figures are relative in some respects, because not everyone with a limitation wants to indicate that in this way. I understand that you are taking a whole range of measures to improve the employment of people with disabilities in the public sector. I fully agree with your 2015 policy statement, but I believe that, in addition, the employment of people in sheltered workshops or tailor-made businesses, as they are now called, may not be the solution, but it can stimulate the whole and indirectly contribute to the employment of people with disabilities. I will question a number of actors directly involved, including the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. I made an appointment with that. If he wants to think along in this direction, I think we can come up with a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities has recently published an opinion on your draft law supplementing Article 2 (1) of the Law of 27 February 1987 on disability allowances. That opinion was unfavourable for the following reasons. The current legal provisions already provide for rules for the cumulation of the income replacement allowance with the Income Guarantee for the elderly (IGO) and the living wage. On the one hand, the IGA is already being taken into account to calculate the amount that can be granted as an income replacement. On the other hand, for the purposes of cumulation with the living wage, it is stipulated that all means of subsistence, including the allowance to persons with disabilities, are eligible for the calculation of the right to a living wage. So they say that there is already a cumulation rule for both schemes. The income replacement allowance is calculated differently from the Income Guarantee for the elderly. If such cumulation is prohibited by law, the income replacement allowance would be refused in certain cases and some people would have to live with a guarantee of income for the elderly of a few euros. According to the National High Council for Persons with Disability, in certain cases, only a lower income for persons with disabilities would result in a total ban on the coumulation of income replacement with the IGO and/or the living wage, even though there are already cumulation rules. I myself have an example of someone who, should this be implemented, would have EUR 5 500 a year less than is currently the case. The National Supreme Court cannot accept this proposal, which, according to him, represents a step backwards in the fight against poverty and therefore gives an unfavourable opinion. It recognises that the proposal to amend the legislation is designed to prevent abuses. Some people get two benefits without reporting this. However, the National Supreme Court considers that other means exist for this, such as electronic data flows between administrations. I also refer to our resolution. Could you elaborate on the relevant draft law that you submitted to the National Supreme Court for advice? Is there a proposal for a real ban on cumulation as such? That's what I look like from the advice. What's your response to the negative advice? What do you think of the suggestion that there are better ways to combat abuse, such as electronic data flows?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u17	Mrs Willaert, at the age of 65, the National Pensions Office determines the right to the Income Guarantee for the Elderly (IGO). In the case of persons entitled to that IGO and already enjoying a full IVT, that IVT shall be paid together throughout the calendar year of entitlement to the IGO. This can be explained by the pure application of the general rules on charging in the event of an increase in the income of rightholders, which are valid regardless of the causes of that increase. It concerns the application of Article 23 (1a) of the procedural decision of 22 May 2003. Of course, that is not possible, because in fact it is a perverse effect of the regulation. Of course, it has never been the intention of the legislator to pay the entire IGO and the entire IVT for the same periods. I believe that people should receive the right benefit or payout, under the right name and for the right purpose. That is precisely what has become more difficult in the system because of the complexity of social security. It is therefore logical that we should want to avoid these double concessions by introducing clear anti-cumulative rules. In addition, there may be a right to an IGO with retroactive effect, in which case the National Pensions Office may have to offset the late payments against the monthly amounts of the income replacement allowance already paid, the IVT. I was given the opinion of the National Supreme Court on this, and indeed I have read it. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has not provided a solution to this particular problem. Indeed, I am encouraging the electronic exchange of data between the various administrations. However, in the event that we are discussing it, it is purely a matter of regulation. In the light of the opinion, this problem is still under investigation for the time being. However, two types of benefit should not be paid at the same time, giving a limited group a double advantage. People are having a hard time, but we must, of course, ensure that the benefits are put in the right place for the right people. So we have noted this and we are taking into account the advice to further develop it, but that is still in full development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, we are talking about one calendar year in which this situation can now occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u20	I look forward to the further development of that investigation. After all, the example that I have received is pressing. A solution must be found, because it cannot be the intention that people should be impoverished in this way, with such a large amount of money per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u21	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u22	That seems important to me to bring. Hence the advice. I look forward to a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u23	The opinion is being examined. We are looking at how we can work out a new arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u25	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about a new project, for which a call for projects has also been launched, namely the European Disability Card. One has a disability or one has no disability, but it certainly does not stop at national borders. We have already argued for this in a dossier on the mentoring of people with disabilities on public transport. In the meantime, we note that the principle is also applied by our country in the framework of a European project on the European Disability Card. The Secretary of State already referred to this project when discussing the policy paper. Our country had already confirmed at that time that it would participate in the European disability card project launched by the European Commission in July 2015. The aim of this European disability card is to make it easier for people with disabilities to access activities in the areas of sport, culture and tourism in different Member States. We are of course pleased that Belgium supports this project and has committed itself to it. When I read the texts containing more information on the project, I can see that the Member States will have to decide on a number of advantages that we are now giving to people with disabilities, such as the parking card or the free guide in public transport. Belgium, together with seven other Member States, has signed up to this call for projects with Slovenia, Malta, Cyprus, Finland, Italy, Estonia and Romania. A contract was also signed in December 2015. Has this happened in the meantime by all the Member States, including our country? On 3 December 2016, on the International Day for People with Disabilities, the main elements and a number of awareness actions relating to this European disability card should be in place. That's an agreed timing. Is it feasible? Who held you responsible in our country for achieving that timing? Have you already entrusted certain administrations or possibly a particular official with the follow-up of the case, so that we can achieve the timing effectively? At the same time, we note that these are eight countries. Many countries have not yet registered. That's too bad, but I'm glad our country's here. At the same time, I also read that it may vary from country to country what benefits are granted to people with disabilities from another country. I hope that this, in consultation with the other Member States, will be as comprehensive as possible, for the matters for which this can be done. Do you have any idea in which areas you will grant the same rights to, for example, a Dutch man or woman with disabilities who has a European card? Can he join us in the same way and under the same conditions and, for example, get a discount on cultural activities or be accompanied free of charge on the train? What benefits would you like to link to the map? Only people with disabilities who request it themselves would receive the card. This brings us back to the subject of automatic allocation earlier. It is then very important that everyone is informed. We must also avoid the complexity of the application and the fact that many people do not apply for the card. Do you see any possibility of automating that as well? After all, it is something new that is currently being set up. I would like to give you the signal to include this point on the list of cases which should be granted as much as possible automatically or automatically, for example by filling in the application form as far as possible in advance, which can then be sent to the person concerned, who will only have to complete and sign it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u26	Mr President, the cooperation protocol between the European Commission and Belgium was signed at the end of December 2015. As a result, we are officially part of the countries chosen to participate in the European Disability Card project. We heard that two weeks ago. The participating countries have not yet been officially notified, but we have made enquiries by telephone. When I left for this committee, it was not on the European Commission's website yet, but should normally be on the website today which countries will participate. The international day of 3 December was indeed chosen as an important step in the project. On that day, the Commission intends to announce that the maps are operational in the participating countries. The same applies to our country. I sat with the Supreme Court a few days ago. A committee will be set up, consisting of different actors, both from the federal level and from the Länder. The calendar will be set to ensure that the card will be operational within the expected time frame. I suspect we can make it to December 3rd. What do we provide for? It is indeed a question of mutual recognition of the status of persons with disabilities in the participating countries. In Belgium, benefits will be given in terms of culture, leisure and sport, both for Belgian residents and for residents of European Member States holding the card mentioned above. It is currently eight Member States. Those discounts will therefore also apply to them. The card can indeed only be obtained on request. The Supreme Court believes that not everyone should have them, but that people who wish to participate can apply for the card. This also prevents people from feeling stigmatized. It is up to them to decide whether they want this European card or not. There will be a very large information campaign, on the one hand, with regard to service providers and, on the other hand, with regard to potential users, so that they know at least that the card exists. It goes without saying that we want to keep the complexity and administrative burden as low as possible. We now know for two weeks that our project has been approved. That is why we must now begin the roll-out, together with the committee that we will be putting together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, on the last point, an information campaign is good, but absolutely not enough. I hope you will take my suggestion to include it in the list for maximum automation. It's possible. There is no need to force people to do anything, but one can tell them, for example, that they are eligible for this. All they have to do is apply for it or sign a form. People will still be released. It is good that it will happen in the areas of sport, culture and tourism, but the question remains what is happening in the area of mobility. Can people with such a card also park in Belgium or get a certain discount on the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u28	Member States are free to decide what they do. The parking card is separate from that. It's really about taking part in social and social life. Transport will continue to be the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u29	A disability doesn't stop at the border. I think that you should deal with this problem very urgently, together with your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u30	Each Member State may decide that for itself. In any case, it will be different from one Member State to another. In the Netherlands, this card has different advantages than in Belgium, because of course it remains a Member State competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u31	Apart from this European project, you can agree a number of things with the relevant Benelux ministers. A person with a disability, who travels to Rotterdam or Amsterdam, or who travels from Rotterdam to Antwerp, Brussels or Ghent, will suddenly have to pay for his supervisor as soon as he crosses the border. Such things, which are happening now, are absurd. One stays on the same train, but suddenly there is a problem. That needs to be addressed. It is a very good project, but it allows us to think about a number of other things. I don't mean to say that suddenly everything has to be thrown open, but trains run across the border. A solution must be found for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u32	Definitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u33	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you as the person in charge of disabled people, particularly people with reduced mobility. On Monday, December 21, the press reported that the 445 new trains ordered by SNCB to the Bombardier-Alstom consortium, which will provide 50,000 new seats and cost EUR 1.3 billion, will pose a problem for people with reduced mobility due to a gap between the doors of these trains and the wharf. SNCB claims to have made a compromise and to have chosen a box height of 62 cm for multifunctional cars. Indeed, there are several dock heights in the railway stations of Belgium. SNCB said it had to make a choice: either it decided to increase the number of seats, or it decided to adjust the width of the doors. She finally opted for an increase in the number of seats. It is true that SNCB has missions to fulfil. However, Belgium has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. Therefore, across the board, the country's policies, including social, economic and mobility policies, must ensure that persons with disabilities can also have access to trains. Here is a discussion of the principles set out in your 2015 and 2016 policy notes. I know that it is not easy to perform your role in a cross-cutting manner with ministers who have other powers. However, have you had the opportunity to analyse SNCB's plan to buy new cars in a proactive manner with a view to the integration of people with reduced mobility? Have you provided any recommendations or advice to the appropriate Minister and the authorities of the SNCB? What action are you going to take to verify the accessibility of the cars and to require corrections, if necessary, from both the Minister and the SNCB? A member of the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities stated that his opinion had not been taken into account. The Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers also spoke about accessibility. Can you tell me if there has been a proactive intervention on this file or if the devices will need to be improved so that trains can be accessible to people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u34	Mrs Gerkens, as I pointed out in my policy note, within the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I wish to pursue a disability policy on the basis of two fundamental pillars: inclusion and cross-cuttingity. On my proposal, the government committed on March 27th to take the disability dimension into account in the development and implementation of its policies. Each minister undertook to include the disability dimension annually in at least two policy lines per area of competence. The choice of these policy lines preferably involves measures which have a direct bearing on the citizens so that concrete results can be achieved with a view to the inclusion of persons with disabilities. On 11 January 2016, an in-depth consultation was held between the representatives of my firm, the cabinet of Mrs.Galant, the Chancery, SNCB, Infrabel, the National Superior Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) and the Vlaamse Federatie van Gehandipten (VFG). This meeting led to the following actions: to deepen the consultation between the SNCB and the CSNPH, which unfortunately did not exist, and to prioritise the uniformity of the height of the docks to 76 cm. While the study shows that this standardization will only be possible in the long term, SNCB is committed to exploring the possibility of carrying out temporary measures to facilitate access to cars for persons with reduced mobility. This is a unilateral decision of SNCB. Mrs Galant's office was informed too late, which is why we are doing everything possible to improve the situation. I discussed it with the CNPH. I find that what has happened is very serious: 445 new trains, which will be used for 30 years. We need to look at the docks that can be modified, in what way, how high. We have met with Mrs Galant's office to ensure that such a problem does not happen again. We also need to seek the views of people with disabilities in order to know their needs in terms of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic307x.u35	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. In last year's government statement, I noted that when we say that we want to achieve maximum accessibility, we face such a problem. In our time, accessibility must be mandatory. One point, that's all. Other countries can do it. So that's not impossible. That is why I find it difficult to understand that SNCB has not incorporated this need. Whether it is the construction of the Namur railway station or the Liège railway station, it has always been necessary to recall this concern. I hoped that this issue had become a priority within the group. I can only support you and insist that the government conduct proactive policy negotiations for all projects in which the issue of accessibility is at stake. I see that on January 11, you took the lead. Unfortunately, it was a matter of correcting the shot, not a device. In any case, I will report my grievances to the minister responsible for rail transport.
