ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u1	Mr President, Minister, it appears from the information provided by the Belgian Institute for Postal and Telecommunications Services (IBPT) that the housing coverage rate for broadband (30 Mbit/s) would amount to 93.5% in the country. This means that 342,000 housing units do not yet have access to broadband in Belgium. In addition, it appears that 2,263 households in 102 municipalities in Wallonia did not have access to a 1 Mbit/s connection. In concrete terms, these people are not at all connected or surf at a lethargic speed, as was the case 15 years ago. This is in line with the obligation of the Member States of the European Union to provide a universal service, but also taking into account Belgium's commitments under the Digital Single Market Strategy. In addition, this element prevents the development of e-commerce. It comes to my mind that you have planned to organise a consultation with the mayors of these communes and that, in the long run, it should lead to the examination of appropriate technologies with the telecommunications operators. In this context, I would like to know the following. What is the current state of cooperation with the mayors? With which operators do you plan to examine the broadband deployment plans to be implemented? How do you explain that several households in Wallonia did not have access to a connection greater than 1 Mbit/s? What concrete deadline has been set for improving the situation of these Wallonia municipalities with regard to universal broadband service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u2	Madam President, Minister, this is a joint question and it is good that I am speaking just after Mr de Lamotte, who was able to describe the situation in Belgium as a whole. For my part, I will speak of a particular case. I am contacted by discontented residents of the Bertogne region, in the province of Luxembourg. They complain about the slow pace of the Internet. It seems that the network is so slow in some places, especially in the small hamlet of Wigny, that it has become almost impossible to use the Internet. This causes significant isolation. However, the cost to the user remains the same as the cost to the regions where the networks operate properly. We can therefore understand the dissatisfaction of these citizens, who pay for a service they do not receive. Minister, are you aware of these problems in this particular region? What are they due to? Do you have any explanation? Are work planned to improve the internet connection in the near future? If so, when? If not, can you ask that these be realized so that all can benefit from the same service for the price paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, at the level of consultation with the mayors, this week we contacted the operators in order to know their investment plan in order to better identify areas that will remain white without intervention. After the summer, we will bring together the mayors and all interested operators around the table to develop a high-speed take-off plan in the white areas, without internet access at a minimum of 30 Mbit/s. All stakeholders will be invited to provide solutions. The latter will have to be based on a technological mix and comply with the legal requirements relating to competition rights. The aim of this consultation is to take stock of the concrete solutions to be implemented. This state of affairs will then be used to coordinate the implementation of the measures chosen between the different levels of power and between the actors concerned. How can we explain that several households in Wallonia do not have access to a 1 Mbit/s connection? The 2,263 dwellings, which cannot be connected via fixed networks at 1 Mbit/s, are located mainly in rural localities, where the population density is very low. Fixed costs in these areas are disproportionate to revenue and therefore are not cost-effective. Almost all of the 2,263 housing units have access to technological alternatives, such as satellite and mobile, allowing a connection to flows of a few megabytes/second and even tens of megabytes/second. The total 4G network coverage in the municipalities concerned is, on average, 98% of the population. In this regard, some operators are already marketing internet offers for the home on pricing terms that are similar to Internet access offers via fixed networks. In the commune of Bertogne, where the hamlet of Wigny is located, 84% of dwellings have access to 30 Mbit/s by a fixed network. The IBPT estimates that 54 housing units do not yet have access to 30 Mbit/s. With regard to 4G coverage, in the specific case of the hamlet of Wigny, the operator Base is absent. Orange covers part of the hamlet and Proximus covers almost the entire area. The 4G coverage will be further improved, as the commune of Bertogne is one of the 60 priority municipalities that the operator Orange is expected to cover with 4G by December 2016. Good mobile internet coverage in the municipality of Bertogne should allow residents to access the Internet via the operators' mobile networks. As for the deadline set for improving the situation of these municipalities in Wallonia, the high-speed take-off plan in areas without 30 Mbit/s internet access is expected to emerge in the coming months. It will be drafted after a first phase of consultation with the above-mentioned stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u4	Minister, I take note of your remarks. I still invite you to check what you're talking about in the file, as a number of people would not be connected. I'm a little more careful about that than you are. I hear you're going to have a meeting with the mayors in a few months. For you, "in a few months" is this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u5	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u6	Not only consultation, but establishment, because there is a digital single market service and an obligation on the Member States of the European Union to provide a universal service. If operators are to provide a universal service, they should implement it. I will remain very attentive, because 102 communes to households not connected to broadband, out of the 262 communes of Wallonia, is more than a third.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. We see that this will change a little in the future. I will probably have some quick returns from Bertogne, if the plan you proposed is properly implemented on the ground. You know I'm close when a case doesn't end. We will continue to hear about this in the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I shall return once again to you concerning the ticket distributor in the municipality of Messancy. In my last question, you told me that the municipality of Messancy did not enter into the terms of the management contract, given the presence of a ticket distributor in the Cora store. That's right, but you have to realize the situation. To access this supermarket, you need to borrow N 81. It is a very important national with four bands, with an average daily traffic level almost equal to certain sections of the motorway. This window is therefore only accessible by car and, moreover, it is as if you had to take the motorway to get twenty euros. It's a little absurd. You will understand that the Messanic population, which has more than 8,000 souls, cannot be content with this one distributor whose accessibility is also limited to 67 hours per week and which, depending on the hypermarket, is too often unavailable because it is not supplied systematically. On the other hand, distributors who rely on the goodwill of private commercial establishments should not be included under the rule of establishing a distributor per municipality, especially when they are not accessible in the evening, during the night and on Sundays and public holidays. For these reasons, Minister, I invite you to ask bpost to review its position or criteria and to take into account this principle of non-accessibility at all times so that the municipality of Messancy can actually be equipped with a ticket distributor. Minister, have you contacted bpost in this direction? If yes, did you get an answer? If not, are you considering doing so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Poncelet, we both find that the management contract does not oblige bpost to install a ticket distributor in Messancy, given the presence of a ticket distributor already in the municipality, although we can discuss the fact that access or the definition of "common" may not be the most appropriate. However, the definition is used. The bpost obligation to ensure the presence of a ticket distributor extends only to municipalities where the service is not currently offered by another financial institution. Personally, I do not intend to ask bpost to reconsider its position, but nothing prevents the municipality of Messancy from contacting bpost and looking at the possibility of installing a ticket distributor under certain conditions. It's a possibility. With regard to the problems of availability and accessibility of the distributor currently present in the municipality of Messancy, I would point out that this distributor does not belong to bpost, but to a financial institution. Therefore, bpost is not responsible for these inconveniences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u10	Minister, if I recall correctly, the management contract requires that this ticket distributor be permanently accessible or, at least, in extended time zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u11	To be clear, the management contract stipulates this request about our own distributors. On the other hand, when it comes to other banking agencies, it does not apply. Moreover, in most municipalities, distributors installed inside a bank are not accessible twenty-four out of twenty-four. This is particularly the case in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u12	I am not saying that they should be left accessible twenty-four out of twenty-four, but in any case longer than what is proposed by the commercial surface.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u13	You have the right to the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u14	You said that the municipality could do this in order to obtain an amendment to other conditions, but you did not specify which ones. I would have liked some clarification in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u15	I was not talking about any conditions that the municipality could impose. I meant that in this management contract bpost is not required to install a distributor there. On the other hand, the municipality may negotiate with the company for this commercial purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u16	Can we close, Mrs. Poncelet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u17	Does that mean I can still intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u18	Yes, you have the last word for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u19	We will see what initiatives the municipality will take. It would be appropriate for the future management contract to impose new conditions and criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u20	The new management contract was accepted a little while ago. It's a little late, Mrs. Poncelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u21	Mr Minister, my fellow Members who are prevented because their presence is required in other committees have been contacted by local authorities and syndicates who express their fears that bpost will halve opening hours in many offices. The syndicates have given a negative opinion on this and it does not, of course, help the social climate in bpost that such notes are suddenly leaking out. I look at the province of Antwerp, then I see that especially at smaller post offices, opening hours will be drastically reduced, which has an impact on the services. Commercial advisory time will also decrease. At this stage, my questions are very general, because we have only received informal information, which is not officially confirmed anywhere. Are the rumors that bpost will halve opening hours? What is the reason for the drastic phasing-out? Is there a financial plan for this, in which the impact of the changed opening hours is explained against the operational plan or operation? In view of a number of negative opinions, is there a negotiating margin, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u22	Bpost informed me of the fact that work is indeed being done to adjust the opening hours of the offices. The plan would only be about post offices, not about the other channels in the omnichannel approach of bpost, which are gaining importance today. These include the mail points, the stamp shops, the website, the call center, the e-shop, the e-banking and the apps. At the moment, I have little concrete to say about this. The company tells me that the results of the social dialogue still need to be consolidated with the business plan and with the communication plan, which has to be validated by the end of June at the latest. For me, however, it is clear that bpost must be guided in the first place by the needs of the customer. This is also the case in the management contract and I will ensure that bpost complies with the management contract. For example, the management contract states that bpost will use objective parameters such as the volume of services, the number of transactions, the number of customers and the quality to determine the capacity utilisation and opening hours of post offices and postal stops. The management contract also obliges bpost to keep post offices open outside office hours for at least a few hours a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do think that we should look at the management contract, which is important and the starting point, and then, in the context of negotiations, see where it will land.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u24	Madam President, Minister, in reply to my question on the ease of access to websites with violent pornographic content, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, after referring to the prosecution's action in the field of justice, referred me to you with regard to the technical aspects. My question is not about child pornography that is a crime, etc. For various reasons, my attention has been drawn to the ease of access to websites with pornographic content that is sometimes violent or even demeaning, without any hindrance. The 18-year-old bar is, in fact, only a formality since just click. No verification, no checks are carried out. I was also surprised to learn that accessing some of these content can be considered a crime. In this matter, justice decides. The problem, in my view, is that no information is foreseen for potential users. Morally, one can give a critical opinion on all this, but let's leave morals aside. The problem is that there is no barrier for young people under 18 years of age, especially since they can have very easy access to this type of content via their gsm. In addition, there is no prior information to warn the person that he or she is taking a step. Minister, is it possible to put one or the other barrier a little more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u25	Mr Miller, Book XII of the Code of Economic Law and e-commerce Directive 2000/31 on electronic commerce, which deals with the provision of information society services, do not include a legal basis for requiring the service provider hosting websites with pornographic content to set up an effective age control or the obligation to inform its adult users of the existence of potential images which are subject to prosecution. It is important to stress that the hosting provider plays a purely neutral, technical and passive role in relation to the content it hosts and therefore has no knowledge of this content. In other words, it is in principle the responsibility of the content publisher to regulate its accessibility. It is only in a second stage, when illegal content or activity is hosted, that the host provider's responsibility may be requested. In this connection, it is important to recall that Book XII and the e-commerce Directive limit, under certain conditions, the liability of information society service providers engaged in hosting activities. Moreover, Article 15 of the e-commerce Directive prohibits Member States from imposing, in particular on hosting companies, a general obligation to monitor the information they store or a general obligation to actively seek facts or circumstances relating to illegal activities. However, as stated in recital 40 of Directive 2000/31, these provisions do not prevent the self-regulation of the sector in this field. The European Commission has recently reaffirmed its support for self-regulation and co-regulation in the particular context of online platforms. To my knowledge, the amendment of the rules I have just explained is not envisaged at European level. However, the European Commission is taking initiatives to promote self-regulation and co-regulation in the area of terrorism and child protection. I believe that such initiatives must be taken at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u26	Minister, thank you for all the information. I agree with you that a solution must be found at European level. But I still stay a little with my astonishment. In fact, I will be working on a motion for a resolution to that effect, since in the end, none of the two difficulties I have highlighted in my question, namely the 18-year-old bar to protect young people and the necessary information for the person who would consult content, are encountered by the current legislation, if I have understood what you have said. Mr Minister, thank you for your answer and I will table a motion for a resolution to try to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u27	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, m-commerce is becoming increasingly important in our economy, particularly for the purchase of train tickets or cinema tickets. These are all those payments made on the move by the citizens. Payment by credit and debit card is often bet, but some services are invoiced by the operator. As a result, telephone operators act as money collectors. They charge third-party services although they are not responsible for them. Therefore, subscribers feel obliged to pay for services charged improperly or in error, for fear that their contract will be terminated with their operator. As mentioned in the annual report of the telecommunications mediation service, complaints about m-commerce have increased significantly since 2013. For 2015, the number of complaints was 592, compared to several dozen in 2013. This system is advantageous for the third party offering the service because it obtains better payment guarantees. However, it is difficult to identify the service provider, who is often abroad. Moreover, it is difficult to stop these m-commerce services because the customer is faced with several interlocutors: the service provider and the operator. Lack of transparency when subscribing to m-commerce services is also a problem with these services and leads to abusive billing. The customer subscribes to a subscription without wanting to and without knowing it. Some operators have introduced a differentiated/selective blocking system for each m-commerce service. This initiative significantly reduces m-commerce problems, while keeping the possibility of purchasing a parking ticket by SMS, for example. The customers of the operators who do not offer this differentiated blocking then have only the possibility of completely blocking the m-commerce services. This blockage implies that subscribers must do without Premium services, such as payment for parking by SMS. However, customers do not necessarily want to do without such services and refuse to do so. As a result, they do not receive adequate protection to their expectations. Minister, what steps do you intend to take in the near future to provide more transparency to clients? How can operators be obliged to set up a differentiated blocking service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u28	Madam Chair, Mr.Foret, the future law with various provisions on electronic communications will contain provisions that will, in particular, increase transparency with respect to third-party services described in the 2015 annual report of the mediation service. In the context of the adaptation of the royal decree "numbering" also, the necessary attention will be given to transparency. However, in this case, they can only be third-party services which are invoiced via higher-rate numbers. Section 120 of the Telecommunications Act provides that the Minister may develop a Call Barring system differentiated from higher-rate numbers. We want to remind the legislation on this point so that useful services, such as SMS parking and the bus, are not blocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u29	Vice-Prime Minister, we will be following the next developments carefully. Thank you for the transparency you never hesitate to put at the centre of your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u30	Madam President, everything has been going on since Eupen, but in Brussels it is horror! Nothing's going on anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u31	That's why we want the RER, Mrs Jadin. I want to create a polemic. Earlier, we will have a few recommendations to make to Mr. Bellot on this matter. As a Brusselser, I promise to support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u32	When it comes to SNCB, I'm always interested and you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u33	You can tell your colleague, Mr. De Croo. I don't know if he'll be happy to have a tutorship. Maybe that's what Mrs. Jadin wants. We're gonna offer it to him later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u34	I just said I'm sorry I got late. Thank you to my colleagues for waiting for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u35	Minister, more and more businesses from the wave of the digital economy are being created and are becoming increasingly successful in our country. To date, this type of activity has been almost completely exempt from taxation, while reported revenues have been classified by the administration as miscellaneous income and therefore subject to a tax rate of 33%. With your intention of promoting this type of enterprise by digital platform, which allows young entrepreneurs to try their luck without benefiting from all the prerequisites necessary for the formation of a classical enterprise, such as the initial capital or the diplomas required, you are considering the introduction of a separate tax system, with a progressive tax rate of 10 to 20% for turnovers not exceeding between 6 and 10 000 euros of annual income. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows: do you have statistics on the number of companies using services provided via digital platforms currently active in Belgium, and on those potentially affected by this measure? Do you already have a timetable specifying the deadline to which you expect the own tax system to enter into force for services made via digital platform? Are you currently in a position to provide me with more details on the progressivity of the tax rate that will eventually be applied, as well as on the precise ceiling from which these benefits will be considered as traditional professional benefits? Are other measures to encourage entrepreneurs to start up through digital platforms currently under consideration in your services? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u36	Mr. Minister, you recently released a new tax project targeting the players in the collaborative economy, which is also part of the program bill. That's what I told you in plenary on May 12. You are aiming for the collaborative economy first and foremost for taxation. Still, it's calling for a Liberal. That's the angle of attack you preferred. We take note of that. This proposal to tax 10% of the income generated by the collaborative economy, with a ceiling of 5,000 euros gross per year, risks creating a new category of workers, creating some form of unfair competition with the complementary self-employed from the traditional economy. Indeed, the question is simple: why should an independent restorer, deliverer or horticulturalist pay more taxes than a Take Eat Easy courier, a chef on Menu Next Door or a gardener passing through ListMinut? In addition, the NIS and UCM do not understand this exception: "Ministers De Croo and Van Overtveldt create a new status that leads to unfair competition against the self-employed on a complementary and full-time basis. We demand equal play for everyone." They continued: "Competitive economic actors must participate equitably in the financing of the State and social security". This difference in treatment would even go beyond the tax system. Indeed, you would have announced that providers of the collaborative economy would also be exempt from social contributions (while "classic" complementary self-employed persons are exempt only below income equivalent to €1,449 per year) and from any action with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. If your bill in the program bill is passed, the self-employed regime will soon be at two speeds. Therefore, what safeguards do you intend to put in place to address the concerns of the UCM and the NIS about possible discrimination against the existing complementary self-employed regime? Do you confirm that collaborative economy claimants will be exempt from social security contributions? If so, what justifies such a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u37	Mr Vanden Burre, participation in the new system is done on a voluntary basis by the platforms; there are dozens of them linking customers and service providers, many of whom are young Belgian companies. For example, ListMinut, Menu Next Door, Flavour, Take Eat Easy, RB7, Pawshake or Textmaster. Up to EUR 5 000 of annual gross income, the tax rate for providers on the collaborative economy platform will be 20% of net income after deduction of 50% of flat-rate costs, i.e. a 10% tax on gross income. For persons who exceed the ceiling of EUR 5 000 gross per annum, the services performed are regarded as professional activities and are taxed as such. The measure is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July. At this stage, there is no other measure to encourage entrepreneurs to set up companies via the digital platform that my services are studying. It is important to remember that this is occasional. The EUR 5 000 threshold is set to distinguish between occasional and non-occasional activities. That's already the case. The definition of "miscellaneous income" thus includes occasional income, which is taxed in principle at 33%. In practice, this is not done because it is very administratively complicated. In addition, many people "forget" to mention it. On the other hand, the tax rate of 33% is still high for an occasional activity. We are moving towards an automatic system, without any administrative burden since it is the platform that will take care of it and will impose 10%. At present, many of these benefits are in the grey zone, of which I am not a supporter. Mr Vanden Burre, I confirm that the providers of the collaborative economy, provided that their income does not exceed the EUR 5 000 gross annual, are exempt from registering with a social secretariat and paying social contributions – but note that their activity does not give them any social rights. There are safeguards to avoid possible discrimination against the self-employed or supplementary self-employed regime. First, an independent person cannot benefit from the collaborative economy scheme for benefits identical to his or her main activity. It's quite logical, otherwise we're going to put in place some kind of dual system in the profession itself. The explanatory statement of the law is very clear in this regard. I would remind you that we are talking about a ceiling of EUR 5 000 a year in turnover per person, all persons combined. I take the example of an amateur cook on a Next Door Menu or Take Eat Easy platform, which represents between 300 and 500 servings per year. It's less than what a large horeca establishment does on a day or a small over a week. That 5,000 euros is the sum of everything. If you're working on ListMinut to mow the lawn at your neighbor's house and you're cooking in Next Door Menu, it's all accounted for at the end. Furthermore, in order not to disadvantage traditional self-employed persons compared to those who are active in the field of the collaborative economy without being subject to the social status of the self-employed, we are studying, together with my colleague Willy Borsus, the possibility of proposing to the Council one or more measures in favour of the self-employed on a complementary or ancillary basis. As regards registration in the Banque Carrefour or social contributions, it is necessary to be clear. Either we give some oxygen to this occasional collaborative economy or we impose administrative constraints. In the latter case, the element will be killed because no one will. The European Commission released a report on the collaborative economy last week and what it proposes is almost a copy/paste of what we are doing. She makes a distinction between the casual and the professional and we could almost think that she was inspired by us!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is important to put the church in the middle of the village because there is bad information that circulates, especially as regards what is occasional or not. It is important to frame this activity to clarify some grey areas in order to make a clear distinction between part-time self-employment and the occasional use of this type of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. Having said that, we support the idea of getting collaborative economic platforms out of the grey zone and making them contribute tax to the government's revenue. These are political directions and intentions that we share. I therefore see no drawback to the establishment of a system enabling these platforms to regain full legality and, above all, to contribute to the functioning of the State and to public financing. Although I understand very well the difference between casual and non-occasional, there is a risk of creating different statutes in the non-occasional. This is where the problem lies. Let us take the case of an independent who, in the morning, decides to become an amateur cook via Menu Next Door and who will have a 10% taxed income. It is therefore a question of an activity complementary to his actual work, which he carries out only in the evening. If rather than cooking pasta dishes for Menu Next Door, it mows the lawn of its neighbour, it can be considered to be also a traditional complementary independent activity that will be subject to taxation other than that applicable to a complementary self-employed activity on a collaborative economy platform. There is a risk of creating sub-categories. Why don't you propose that all complementary independents fall under the 10% regime as you do for collaboratives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u40	It is true that a debate can be held on this subject, but it should be concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u41	I guess it's going to happen because that's part of the program law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u42	We are not debating the program law. So I'm gonna close the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u43	Madam Chair, as Mr. De Croo was clear, I wanted my reply to be as clear. I conclude by saying that it is at the level of non-occasional that, in my view, there is unfair competition between complementary independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u44	We will have a discussion on this during the review of the program legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u45	Mr Minister, during the first hearings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek, there was a lot of talk about communication problems, particularly at the level of relief services and authorities, following the overload of ASTRID and Proximus networks. A number of avenues have been put forward to avoid such overloads in the future and one of them has attracted the full attention of my group: the opening up of networks, i.e. roaming at national level. This option consists of the possibility for all phones to connect to all gsm antennas nearby, regardless of the operator who owns them. You probably know that this system is already in place in the Netherlands, the United States or Sweden, with operational variants. In Belgium, too, this system is part of the crisis plans but is currently planned at the end of the chain, as the ultimate springboard in the event of a disaster or emergency, while some are thinking of setting it up as a starting point in the event of a crisis. The aim would be to distribute the effort among all operators, from the outset, to limit congestion, especially if the network of one of the operators weakens under pressure, as was the case on 22 March. The risk would then be that all networks, via this national roaming, would be congested and that the entire system would collapse. To avoid this, for example, as has been done in Sweden, one can imagine establishing a "VIP" list of sim cards only allowed to use network opening. Minister, do you support the idea of such a national roaming that could be used as a priority in the event of an emergency? If so, in what form? With a limitation to a certain list of sim cards or with another operation? During the Committee of Inquiry, the IBPT confirmed that we were working with the operators on this topic. Could you tell us where the discussions are and when a concrete report or plan or proposal will be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, national roaming is only a solution if only one of the mobile networks is affected, for example in the case of a technical failure. In the event of widespread congestion, this is not really useful. In the event of congestion in an operator during a crisis, this may delay congestion on the networks of other operators, especially if congestion is located in certain areas, for example when a domino effect occurs. A national roaming limited to VIP numbers poses the problem of the operational congestion of this list. The IBPT and the sectors have identified other methods to decongest networks in a preventive manner and to give priority service to calling numbers of people who will play a key role in the event of a crisis. The establishment of a national roaming system is not simple technically and requires investment. The cost-benefit ratio is an important factor. The IBPT examines all solutions with the operators, each based on their advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for this much shorter answer than the previous one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u48	He respects the rules, that's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u49	It's to please the president. I can hear him. I also hear that you are not in favour of this system and I note that we are not going to move in that direction. I still wish I'd known other things. The IBPT is working on other methods, which is quite interesting. I wish I had a more precise timetable. During the hearings in the committee of inquiry, the head of the IBPT still mentioned that he was working on national roaming. So I'm a little surprised at your answer. That seems unclear to me. I knew you weren't going to answer, but I still thought your answer would be more elaborate on what's going on. Apparently, nothing is going on; I'm surprised. In any case, there is nothing going on about national roaming. That's amazing, because the head of the IBPT said something else in the commission of inquiry. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u50	This will have to be included in the recommendations, Mr. Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u51	This is already in ours!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u52	The commission of inquiry! I wanted to talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u53	Minister, are you still answering a question? You're the one who decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u54	In five minutes, I have to be somewhere where the King is expected. So I have to be in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u55	Mr. Yüksel, I'm sorry for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u56	Please excuse me. You can ask your question next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u57	Anyway, he'll be the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u58	I shall now turn to my questions. Question No 12, by Mr De Pasquale Transform 10821 and 12167 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic438x.u59	All right.
