ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u1	Colleagues, we agreed this morning to start this questioning session with the questions put together under item 12 on workable work and manoeuvrable work. I see slides are already being projected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u2	Mr President, we briefly discussed this issue this morning. We are currently hearing the bell of the plenary, so there is a plenary sitting at the same time. The Conference of Presidents has granted a derogation allowing committees to meet at the same time as the plenary for questions. I understand that the Minister wishes to make a statement on a very topical issue. However, I am not really in favour of this because I think the issue is far too important and because many of our committee members are not present. Some need to speak in plenary, others need to ask questions at other committee meetings. Mr President, I would therefore like to call for the debate or the explanation which the Minister intends to give to be postponed to next week so that all the members of the committee can be present and we can have the debate on the substance. After all, I would be sorry if we were to do that between the soup and the chips. I therefore propose that we stick to the agenda as it has been distributed and that everyone has the opportunity to ask questions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u3	Mrs Kitir, I understand that you say that we need to have a thorough debate on this. However, in other cases we are constantly complaining that we are being informed far too late and are being informed of certain matters far too late. The Minister now wishes to give a detailed explanation here, and I think we should take this opportunity to obtain maximum explanation of what has been agreed so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u5	Is it a problem that those who are here are well informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u6	I simply suggest that we have this debate in this committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we simply stick to the agenda. Questions have been put together on this subject under item 12. Those questions can be asked. After that, the Minister will have the opportunity to answer. He can do so in his own way, by reading a text or, as we are used to him, in a modern way, with slides in which he explains exactly what is in it. There is nothing to prevent us from looking at this at a later date, for example when the legislation is amended. However, I do not intend to organise a mini-debate or an exchange of views today, because that is not in line with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, who said that questions should only be asked in committee today and no other debates should be held. I want to stick to that and do it correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u8	Mr President, I understand what you are saying, but we are faced with enormous difficulties. Everyone can agree. My question, to which a gust of questions was attached, was dated 24 February last. It's almost two months later. These questions are not on the agenda or are postponed, which I can understand in light of the latest events and the fact that at times you were not necessarily available. Today, we have heard statements. Therefore, I could withdraw my question, since the answers were already given by the Minister during the interview on budgetary control 2016. If I already have the answers, they don't satisfy me. Parliamentary work consists of asking questions and intervening in a possible presentation. Personally, I would like not to rely solely on press articles, even leaks or confidences made to a few journalists, but to benefit from a moment when questions can arise without necessarily going into a mini-debate. We could also have a debate when the bill is introduced by the minister. But if I have understood the minister's remarks to the press, either there is a draft or an agreement has been reached at the level of the government, but it is forwarded to the Group of Ten and the comments could be made by this Group. Beyond these remarks, parliamentarians could make other or even some improvements. Thus, on the basis of your statements alone, I have already received a few questions from citizens, somewhat concerned about certain considerations, etc. This exchange could be enriching. Therefore, could we not reserve, after the presentation by the minister, for example next week, a moment of questions and answers, by reserving the political debate for another moment, in relation to certain intentions put on the table in order to improve the model?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u9	Mr Massin, of course, you asked your question on 24 February. We have had two sessions of questions to the minister since then, but there have been imperatives, such as budgetary control and a plenary session. In addition, I note that quite a few parliamentarians have asked questions about the current situation and are waiting for the minister's answers. Whether the minister presents his answers in writing or in slide form, it is his own freedom. For the rest, if you want to discuss other topics, you can always put other questions. I'll always be ready to discuss it. There is no point in postponing these questions and answers today because many colleagues are present. In my view, these issues need to be addressed. Does anyone wish to intervene with regard to the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u10	Mr President, my first question is from January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u11	You've just arrived, but I'm exhausting the procedural questions first. I'll come back to you next. No one's asking for the floor? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u12	Minister, my question is dated January 26 and a few things have changed since then. You launched a round table in June 2015 that sought to implement a match between workers' abilities and the actual working situation. To remain competitive, companies have to adapt and workers will have to work no less but otherwise. The new mode of operation requires a stimulating working environment, self-managed teams and autonomous collaborators, and the use of technological supports. A freeing of the constraints of place and time is also necessary. In my January question, I pointed out two problems that required a legal response. First, article 160 of the Act of 22 December 1989 on derogations from the working hours of a worker. For the employer, this section involves relatively heavy administrative work. I suggested that you make some changes at the time. Second, Article 20bis of the Law of 16 March 1971 also created difficulties for an employer in proposing flexible working arrangements. A collective labour agreement should either be drawn up or the labour regulations should be adapted. Today, workers increasingly want to compose their own package of extra-legal benefits. If an employer wishes to propose a pension savings system, it cannot do so at an individual level. We have read the press recently and there have been a series of more global advances in this area. However, there are also these two specific features. Minister, what decisions have been made with respect to these two articles on sustainable work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u13	Minister, I have a question at the outset, and since Mr.Clarinval has just allowed himself to get out of the way of his question, I will allow myself to do exactly the same thing as he did. Nevertheless, I believe it is necessary for you to answer some of the elements of my question. You, and all the social partners, the Group of 10, have said that you should be given time to make proposals or even add points to the menu. On the other hand, they felt that there was a need for genuine consultation and not necessarily for a government agreement that already decides everything. To return to my basic question, on the basis of these elements, you say, in your statements to the press, that the government already has an agreement on your proposals regarding feasible work and manageable work. You say that you expect the Group of 10 to make proposals. If you really want, Minister, to let social dialogue play, I suppose you're going to give them time. So my first question is: What agenda are you going to leave them or impose on them? You're going to answer "yes" quickly, but I'm still asking you this question. You will have comments from the Group of 10. Even on the employers' side, everyone does not agree; I will come to it. If any comments are made, I hope you will take this into account when you go back to the government to make changes to this agreement. Otherwise, there is no more social consultation. You will explain it to us even if it is only a project, pending any changes that may be made by the Group of 10. All of us, including the Group of 10, are waiting for you to confirm this. That seems important to me. I'll give you a little example. You have a proposal to make in this respect on the temporary employment contract of indefinite duration with wage guarantee arrangement, without the possibility of economic unemployment. This could be activated by a sectoral collective labour agreement, but it is not everyone's claim at the moment. In the current state of affairs, this seems to be Federgon's claim, but it is not supported by the entire employers' sector. Beyond that, you know the problems that might arise tomorrow. The stable labour relationship of the 1978 law is the rule and the acting does not have to substitute for this. Thus, a conventional CDI could have been provided for rather than an indefinite acting contract. The very pragmatic questions are the workers who ask themselves. Minister, what about the salary between two benefits? Since it is an indeterminate contract even if it is acting, does the worker have the freedom to refuse a job? These are very important things. You were talking about the savings account. Is its portability to another employer possible? Do you also intend to challenge collective laws such as time credits or thematic leave? The leave donations you mentioned in your press conference, I guess you're gonna put them here on the table. Let's imagine that an executive gives his leave to a worker. On the basis of what salary? The manager's or the worker's? The difference is important. If the executive gives his leave, it is based on the capital he has amassed, his salary calculation, etc. The person who should benefit from it is not the employer, but the one to whom he gives the leave. I guess you've been thinking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u15	I'll ask you a question and you'll answer me. And we will see if the Group of 10 agrees. You also know that, in the context of manoeuvrable work, derogations and adaptations to the labour regulations can be made. If you want it to be in concert, since you ask the Group of 10, you need to know that there are companies without trade union delegations. There will therefore be no consultation. Do you realize that you put the worker naked in front of his employer? There will be no more elements, unless you tell me that this must be done in the framework of a joint committee and a collective labour agreement that applies to an entire sector. I'd like you to give me this kind of answer in order to protect the worker. It seems to me to be the most interesting. I am referring to a question that was asked to me by a relatively worried worker. You will see that this is a very practical and pragmatic case. I read it to you easily: "Knowing that there is no longer a week with a specific number of hours, but that the number of hours is based on a full year, I assume that overtime will not begin to be considered as late in the year, since it is first necessary to achieve its quota of hours. Let's imagine now that a person is sick for a week, what's going to happen? Are we going to consider that she should, on average, have worked 38 hours, or will it be at the employer's discretion? If the boss decides that the worker was ultimately not useful. It may indicate 10 hours on the pay sheet, which implies that the worker is already losing 28 hours on average, whereas, who knows, he could have done more. On what basis will the payment be based? On an actual average, in which case the payment will be the same each month. Or does it vary according to the number of hours worked?" Depending on the response, you see the importance of sick leave or not, as well as taking leave. He goes on to say: "I imagine a worse case. If the week no longer officially has 38 hours or simply has an official and precise number of hours, the boss could calculate his actual number of hours and say that, since he was absent a week, he worked 0 hours. Therefore, he is not paid and has 0 hours more on his count of hours. Legally, nothing will prevent the boss from acting in this way. Acting in this way, the employer therefore removes the payment of the worker who is on sick leave. Sick leave no longer exists. So it's simple. If the worker is not there, he is not paid. And with all this, the beginning of the calculation of overtime also changes." You see the kind of questioning that people who work and face today. Based on what you announced at the press conference and what has been said to journalists, we expect specific answers to a whole series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u16	Mr President, I have tabled a question about the training efforts that had to be made to make workers more resilient in the current labour market. I will briefly adapt my question to current events. In the IPA draft agreement of 2015-2016, there was a standstill in training efforts, both in terms of additional efforts and in terms of sanctions. In particular, I read that it was because a commitment from the social partners was awaited to develop a new methodology for the period 2015-2016. So you did not wait for the social partners. That's not the first time you haven't, it's becoming a habit. You have now said in budgetary control that you are moving away from that 1.9 % of the wage mass to be used for efforts, but that on average there are five days of education per full-time equivalent per year. I have a number of questions about that. You said it should not be an increase in wage costs. There are many companies that do not make any effort today and that do not invest 1.9 % of their wages in their employees. If you want to evolve into a system where you have 5 days per employee, that will in any case mean an increase in wage costs. Otherwise, it will be a measure of nothing and will remain in the present situation. How do you explain one in function of the other? You say that you want to develop a special regime for SMEs with fewer than 20 employees. How am I supposed to understand that? What exactly does that mean? You say that companies with less than 10 employees do not even have an obligation to train their employees. I deeply regret this, because it is often in those companies that the most vulnerable people are to be found. I remain convinced that every employee, employed in a large or small company, is entitled to training. We have to guarantee that to every employee. You start in 2017-2018 with two days, you say. What is your objective? When will it be five days? Can you put a deadline on that? If you speak of training, is it a training per employee, or per company?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u17	Mr Hedebouw, you have a total of nine questions. I suggest you put them together in one intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u18	Indeed, over the past few weeks and months, I have asked the minister a lot of questions because the subject is of particular concern to me, as you know, as is the social issue. I now find myself with nine questions attached. All my intellectual and combative curiosity in nine questions! I therefore propose to make a brief general presentation which will introduce my nine questions. I normally have 45 minutes but I'll be shorter because I want to have the minister's answers. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u19	... in good faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u20	You're right, Mr. President. I'm asking for this to be done at the P.V. Minister, over the past few weeks and months, I have submitted several questions on workable work. I'm glad they're finally on the agenda today. What the government is proposing is anything but workable. Instead of creating new stable jobs, European governments want to abolish, flexibilise and split up existing fixed jobs. One week one will work 45 hours, while the other week there will be almost no work. In my general introduction, Minister, one of the important questions in this whole labour reform is whether we live in a world of Bisounours or in a world where the balance of power between employee and employer in a company is not balanced. I think you know how a company works. That's my main point. You give an equal right to the employee and the employer, such as the right to negotiate together on the number of hours worked per week. If in a company, the worker will find his boss to ask to work 25 hours the following week because he does not want to work, he is tired, he wants to enjoy the good weather, and he will work 45 hours later; to this question, the boss will wonder where the employee came from, or even what he smoked, and if he has not understood that the difference between them is that one pays and the other works for the first. When there is a discussion, it is often the employer who asks the worker to voluntarily come to work 45 hours the following week. And the employee, who doesn't want it, will reluctantly accept it. This kind of anecdotes are thousands and tens of thousands of discussions taking place in companies. There is so-called equality in the labour market, at the regulatory level, but it does not exist, because in a company there are people who pay, who have economic power, and there are others who are subject to contracts. Behind your good intentions, there is actually a structured imbalance. This imbalance was at least kept in some rules, which the collective strength of the workers had put in place, telling the employers that they have no right to have their employees work 45 hours, unless they pay them more. And now you want to relax the rules, and you have the right to ask 45 hours, so-called because it makes everyone more flexible and happier. These are two different worldviews. I propose that after the vote – since I do not have much illusions about the effects of our amendments – we might go to the field to see together, Mr Peeters, in companies, if such a worker could have taken his 28 hours to enjoy the good weather, so that you can see the reality on the other side of the barrier. I propose that we take note, that we go with the whole committee and with the minister to see what happens when a company leaves. It would be good for us all, especially for the parties of the majority. One thing is certain: the new flexi contracts you are preparing will be particularly hard on the workers and especially on women. By the way, Eva Brumagne, President of the women's organisation Femma, I do not know if you know Femma, from the Christian pillar with all its various aspects, says the following about the measures taken by the government: "The majority of part-time workers are women. In many cases they also work part-time because the combination of paid and unpaid work is already difficult. Mr Peeters' proposals are extremely women's unfriendly. Mrs. Brumagne is probably a little angry about your measures. I didn't expect you to take women's unfriendly measures, but apparently you did. That is the side effect of your measure. I would also like to quote Mrs Brumagne: "It is cynical that just this week CD&V chairman Wouter Beke calls his party the most feminist party. I had tabled the question on the occasion of the International Day of Women's Rights. You had already made statements about workable work back then. I conclude my general introduction and come to my questions. The first question concerns workable work, part-time work, overtime and zero-hour contracts. When the government voted last October for the flexi-job contract for Horeca, largely inspired by the "zero hours" contract in Britain and the Netherlands – this was one of the polemics I had with my colleague Mr Egbert Lachaert – the trade union organisations warned of the danger of extension to other sectors. It was the debate, it was said that it would be limited to the Horeca, but finally it did not take long for the oil stain to spread. This bill, which purports to simplify and ease the rules of part-time work, is exactly the same. In the programme, known working hours only the previous day instead of at least five days in advance. Minister, how is this flexibilisation a better werkbaar werk? How does this simplify the world of work? With such a project, how can part-time workers still look for another job? Because that's what you expect from them. How? A doodle with the two or three bosses? If a boss asks me to work at 9:00 a.m., you arrange to pick me up at 12:00 p.m. Do you confirm the deletion of the surcharge for additional hours? Is it still possible to have more paid overtime? Can you confirm that you are considering removing derogations negotiated by sectoral conventions? I agree here with the questions of my colleague Mr. Éric Massin. My second question concerns flexi contracts. Minister, I will come straight to my questions. How do you respond to the criticism that flexi contracts will further put pressure on the combination of work and family? I understand that we want to make the world of work more flexible, but, children, it does not "flexibilize". We've got to get them in at 5:00. How do we do it, Mr. Van Quickenborne? I see that you are passionate about my questions; it fills me with joy and commits me to putting a little layer on these issues that affect me. In my opinion, this measure is tailored to companies where no syndicated representation is tolerated. Isn't that a problem, Minister? You know that there is no trade union delegation in many companies. How will the flexi contracts be negotiated in these companies? My third question concerns workable work and the end of fixed working hours for certain categories of workers. You say that, for certain professions or functions, it would no longer be possible to talk about defined working time. In your opinion, what would count would be the result and not the time when the service is delivered. What categories of workers do you think about in practice? How will you protect workers from the risks of arbitrariness and pressure by employers? Fourthly, there is the loss of overtime in the part-time work system. As you know, a part-time employee who performs on average more hours than is stipulated in his contract can count on overtime. For each reference period, the part-time worker receives a credit for hours which may be worked without giving entitlement to overtime. Once the credit is exceeded, overtime will be due, compared with 150 % on the working days. For variable rosters it is calculated that it is 3 hours per week in a reference period of up to 39 hours. From the 39th hour the employee gets something extra anyway. You propose to wipe this ceiling away. My question is therefore whether you can confirm that an employee who will no longer be entitled to overtime under the new part-time work scheme will in practice be entitled to overtime. Is that still possible in the new system? Fifthly, there is the danger of undeclared work due to a lack of time record in the part-time work system. That's important, isn't it, Minister? I am quoting the BBTK trade union centre on undeclared work. That is important, the rules of law to fight against. What does the BATK say? At present, the situation for variable part-time workers is difficult enough, but they can at least count on obtaining the timetables five working days in advance. These schedules should therefore not only be directed at the employee, but should also be applied in the company. All possible deviations from the normal timetables shall be made to the time schedule for their performance and shall be available. Those aren't details, but allow control of the Social Inspectorate to perform the hours. This possibility of inspection is also likely to be completely undermined in the future. Employers using a reliable system of time recording should no longer comply with the obligation to make possible paper-based deviations. Knowing the practice and the companies will give rise to this, the trade union members of BATK are familiar with the concrete business sector. How can we control that? It's not gonna be anywhere. There won't be any wall where we're going to show the schedules. How will we control this? How does the inspector do it? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u21	We'll see if this is digital. This threatens to encourage undeclared work, or even, workers who have to work for an unexpectedly longer period of time. It therefore asks how the Minister responds to the risk of undeclared work as a result of a lack of time record provided for in the draft law on part-time work. Question 6 is about workable work and the status of an autonomous worker. I spare you the introduction to the question of the fight against the false self-employed. In fact, we're going to turn fake independents into fake official independents. Don't laugh. The false self-employed are formalized; it is a real "uberization" of the employment relationship. My questions are as follows. How is this "uberization" of work the werkbaar werk? What is the motivation to generalize a precarious status for workers? Who will take responsibility for social protection in your model and how can workers' rights vis-à-vis their employer be guaranteed in such a contract? You can see that this question comes back regularly. Let me now turn to my question about the 7 indefinite acting parties. This concept is brand new in our country. By definition, an interim worker works for a fixed period in the case of a peak of production. You make sure, and I quote, that "this will allow the worker to benefit from some financial security". In fact, he becomes thus responsible for all the risks associated with his acting status. He has nothing to say about his task. If he refuses, for example, because the proposed schedule does not allow him to organize his family life, he will break the contract. The inequality of treatment is flagrant. How does this measure take part in werkbaar werk? Second, the acting employee is, in principle, paid on the basis of the salary scale and the extra-legal benefits in effect for the sponsor of the mission. If he becomes CDI with the temporary agency as employer, what will his salary be? With which joint committee will this worker benefit from the extra-legal advantages? Who will pay for its transportation costs? What then will his rights in terms of unemployment be? Let me turn to my eighth question. You explain that each worker will be able to accumulate money on his/her time account so that he/she can arrange and finance an interruption of work at the time it is arranged. In short, the worker would theoretically have the opportunity to organize his own career. In fact, this means replacing the right of everyone to use the system of time credit and career interruption, organized and funded collectively. Minister, what happens if the employer refuses the period proposed by the worker? This is a question that I think is important. If the employer says no, what happens? That's an important question, isn't it? I want to know if there are any rights left, or is it just no? Secondly, what guarantee is there that this way of doing things will create employment and what guarantee is there that the arrangements for feeding this account will not change as was the case in France. It is important, Minister, because I know that your social soul refers to the fact that there is a left-wing government in France that establishes a little the same Labour Code as you. But the question, minister, is that it is not a left-wing government in France. That's the question. It tastes like left, it looks like left, but it's not left. It's from Canada Dry on the left.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u22	We need Venezuela, North Korea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u23	I understand this movement of young people who are fighting against the reform of the Labour Code. I must confess to you, Minister – perhaps you may be concerned – that I hope to do everything possible to import this French movement into Belgium. When I see such a movement, young people who move against labour reform, it is rather an inspiration for us to organize resistance. We will be up many nights to fight against your reform of the Labour Code. For me, this is an argument that does not affect me because I do not recognize myself in this French government. I will therefore continue, Mr. Minister. Last question and I'll close by on the 45-hour week. In the context of workable work you also want to make the 38-hour week disappear. The Minister intends to cancel working time and allow working weeks up to 45 hours, to make them ever more flexible, and he justifies this on the basis of the government's commitment to workable work. Working 45 hours in a week isn't workable, is it? A hundred years ago, people fought for eight-hour working days, and now you come back with a nine-hour working day and a 45-hour working week. Let's keep a normal working day, so we can blow out at 17:00, pick up our kids, meet friends, work sports, but not until 21:00 because the employer has decided that the production should be increased that day. That's not modernising. I'm going to close with that, for my Liberal friends, because I know they like to use the word "modernize". You have to be a little serious. The 19th century was the period without structure in the working week. You want to go back to the 19th. The 20th is the century in which a certain structure of work was put in place. And the twenty-first century is the century in which working hours will be reduced. Stop making us believe that you are modernising the labour market when you simply apply the conditions that were applicable in individual management or at the enterprise level before collective labour agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u25	Exactly! Stop saying you're modernizing. There's nothing new in your thing. You're just going back. Everyone has to carry out their work week individually. It's not a new idea. This is a retrograde idea, oubollig, and I hope that the minister, after these nine questions, and I close here, can not only shed some light on the few questions asked, but also possibly go back and take into account these strong arguments which, in my view, warrant a revision of his law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u26	Mr Minister, my question was about training efforts even before the negotiations began. The result was a recent report by the Competitiveness and Employment Expert Group, which again criticized the current system developed by the social partners. This system mainly had a financial objective, i.e. to achieve the 1.9 % of the total Belgian wage mass. The main criticism is that the indicators and methodologies used are not always very coherent and that the scope is not always clear. There was also a lot of discussion about the evaluation and so on. There was therefore a great deal of criticism of the current legal framework. It was then agreed that a new proposal should be drawn up. The Council of State and the Constitutional Court also had serious concerns about the existing rules, especially the fact that an employer who makes sufficient efforts in itself, but works in a sector that does not meet the overall objectives, is still subject to additional sanctions. That is a violation of a number of fundamental rights. Training policy remains very important. We're gonna keep going for that, too. This is important not only for companies, but also for individual workers, especially in the context of workable and manoeuvrable work. All studies show that learning opportunities in a job are a very important factor in maintaining workability. Minister, I was wondering what you would do about this. In the meantime, you seem to have done something about it during the negotiations. We are therefore very curious to see what the alternative to what has now been put on hold because it was not workable. I wonder if the new proposal is workable. We look forward to what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u27	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, when you presented your ten-point plan to make the work more feasible, I said that not all proposals were wasteful. We were interested in some ways in mobility, in helping workers to return to work, or even in some forms of career adjustment, from working time to certain family circumstances. But I must admit that what is left of it after Val Duchesse's mill actually makes me less enthusiastic about the results. We are not closed, on the contrary, to reforms, but you must not be very proud of the result. The result is first and foremost a result of the budgetary adjustment. This is likely to be discussed again, but the weakness of the answers to the phenomenon of tax evasion, to the new savings in social security in the broad sense, particularly on time credit, shows that you have not heard our message prior to Easter holidays, namely, we must no longer touch, Mr. Minister of Employment, representative of the CD&V in this government, on social security! You have made it possible to touch social security again! It's going to hurt people who already don't know how to finish their week or month and you're at fault. You have tried to create a diversion by simultaneously announcing measures on the "modernization" of work, but this is not the way. I have also reacted to this proposal of which you are so proud: workers will be able to give days off to their colleagues, whose children are sick. But soon, you will crowdfunding for laid-off workers! This kind of problem finds answers in collective solidarity. Within the framework of social security, there was a very efficient system, namely the credit-time, to which the Di Rupo government has touched, to which your government has touched even more. It is a formula that also allows for the sharing of available work between some workers and others, because workers who take credit are replaced by job seekers, who in turn contribute. That's pretty positive! And I fear that you should not again expect social movements, which do not give a good image of our country and which put our economy in trouble. With regard to the various measures you have announced, Mr Minister for Employment, I would like to understand what you are thinking about in terms of social consultation. This government has taken on the very bad habit of deciding and then consulting. That is not the way to work. Of course, you can have ideas, it is your responsibility as a political agent, but you have to measure how high they can be endorsed by each other, try to find a path that corresponds both to the political intention but also to what the social partners can accept. Here, it's not how you work, as in pension or other cases. You take very clear options that are negotiable only at the margin. That's my interpretation, but you can contradict me. The first thing you need to shed some light on, Mr. Minister of Employment, is consultation: do we start with a blank page, a grey page, is everything negotiated, is there still a margin and what is it? I'd like to let you have the benefit of the doubt. If one of the partners tells you that it is not agreed to move forward in this direction for that and that reason, will you agree to question what was presented to the press last Saturday at noon? In concrete terms, with regard to this idea of having more flexible working time, working more at certain times and less at others, which is always presented as panacea, it is true that this can respond to certain family situations for recomposed families, where one is less available every other week. But the question is what are the tags you put to protect the workers. What are the workers' rights in this situation? Is this relaxation an enslavement? Will the worker retain an ability to say that he is not available at that time, that he does not agree to be notified 24 hours before the beginning of his working day, that he also has a private life, a family life, that he may have projects next to his working week. That's quite respectable. What did you imagine as beacons for workers to be respected in their rights? Secondly, the issue of "feasible work" – werkbaar werk – depends in particular on the lengthiness of certain careers, the adaptation of the career to the physical or psychological capacities of workers, the ability of older workers to slow down the pace when needed, in order to remain active longer but at a sustainable pace. Replacement by young workers may also be used during periods of absence of older workers. Many young people are eagerly awaiting their first professional experience. These are some innovative approaches. Perhaps I was distracted, but in terms of innovation, no lead towards the Tandem Plan has been put forward in the proposed plans. Mr Minister for Employment, what have you planned to improve the careers of older workers, sometimes exhausted by work, as well as young workers who find it difficult to enter the labour market? Of course, this debate is not closed. We will see you again and continue to discuss this issue when you present concrete projects. We will then try to amend them, to convince you that you have made bad choices. With regard to flexi-jobs, I have heard that some members of your government want to extend the measure, applying in the horeca sector, to other sectors. Can you confirm to me that you will carry out a serious and contradictory assessment of the situation in the horeca sector in advance? It creates relatively few quality jobs, favouring the employment of some people at a rate of fifty hours a week. Let us add to this a de-financing of social security. In this context, what about flexi-jobs? How will this formula be assessed? Can you assure us that it will not be extended to other sectors until an adversarial evaluation has been carried out, including through the NTC? This assessment must take into account, in particular, the cost of social security, the number of new jobs created or the actual working time of workers engaged in these false employment contracts. Here are some first questions. We will have an opportunity to discuss this on a regular basis. Our group is not opposed to employment reforms. We are indeed putting forward many bills on which we are asking you, but you have taken a wrong direction. Indeed, your ten-point plan could have contained much more interesting things than the ones you have retained. I think you have been the loser of these negotiations in Val Duchesse, Minister for Employment, and I urge you to resume your work as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u28	Minister, on Thursday two weeks before the Easter holidays, you were right to say that it was the first time that the costs of the RVA were so low. A day later, we read on the front page of De Standaard that all this was offset by the very high costs of disability and disability and also partly by the increase in the number of people on a living wage. During the Easter holiday itself we find out that a lot of people are currently working four fifths, not only women but also men. There too, we see an increase. You will then come forward with your proposals. One of the proposals, as many Members have already mentioned, is to abolish the 38-hour week. That's what it's de facto all about. From now on, the number of hours worked will be calculated on an annual basis, i.e. annualisation. You sell the measure by stating that it makes it possible to work more when it is busy and to calm down once the rest has returned. I want to make one thing very clear. Don't get me wrong: such flexibility can work well, but only if both the employer and the employee can determine what pressure is involved. It is not only the employer who can decide when employees work more or less. Pressure is not just an element that refers to the work and is related to the production process. Moreover, research carried out by the OECD, for example, shows that there is no one-to-one relationship between increased flexibility in the labour market and increased economic productivity in a country. That's what the investigation shows. So there's no one-on-one relationship at all. That's also important to give. I have a number of questions, Minister. My first question concerns the 38-hour week. From the texts I have been able to read, I understand that it is mainly about flexibility in the context of companies. My main question is where the employee comes in. After all, I know that in this way it is sold by other parties from the majority. On Twitter I have seen a beautiful picture of a mommy and daddy who put their daughter in the air and say that they can now work less during the holiday and more throughout the year. The question is, of course, whether the moment one needs time for his child will coincide with the moment that it is quieter within the company. So how do we deal with that? When can an employer ask the question to slow down for a while? How do you see this problem in concrete terms? After all, I really do not think that is reflected in the text I have been given. What are the modalities of flexibilisation? How much in advance can an employer claim his staff to perform more hours? Is that 24 hours in advance, as you intend to do for the involuntary part-time workers? That proposal has already given you a lot of headwinds. Will it be an obligation? Could it have an impact on the evaluation of the employee in question? What protection is very important to workers, so that they can manage their private life in a viable way, whether or not to ask the question 'I dare to say that we must be honest and do not fool around about it or be able to respond to the demands of their employer?' Much is already possible in terms of annualisation and other elements in terms of flexibility in the labour market. This is now being done at sector or enterprise level and very important after consultation. I would like to stress once again that this is done after consultation. I now have the impression that the procedure for prior consultation, which is very important, is being reduced to a minimum in the proposal. After all, if it is registered in the law, I believe that this can always be imposed unilaterally by the employer. So I would very much like to have a little more explanation of how I should see it in relation to the employer. What protection will be provided? Finally, I had a question about the 38-hour week and the promise made by the current government to create additional jobs. This was, after all, the prime objective with which the government is once again beating itself up. Will there not be even fewer opportunities for jobseekers to find a job in companies where extra hours are available due to the extension of the working week? Every employee will be able to pay up to 100 overtime in cash on an annual basis. That means an average of two hours a week. In addition, a sector can increase this overtime credit to a maximum of 360 hours, allowing the working week to be increased to 45 hours. In my view, this would put a mortgage on possible additional recruitment and/or temporary work in organisations with a large volume of work. That was my question that had to do with the 38-hour week. However, I also have a question about what is popularly called the begging days. It is a good thing that you want to work out a scheme that allows workers to take care of a seriously ill child. I have noticed that you have already had quite a bit of a headwind on that last weekend. The proposal is also too crazy to run loose. I can't imagine you don't know that yourself. Only those who find a colleague who wants to pass on holidays can take care of their child. If one is working in a small company or does not find colleagues who want to give up their leave, then the child has to do without a caring parent. There's always a dynamic in the workplace. Some workers are not so popular, simply do not like it or may not be sufficiently assertive. In my view, an extension of the possibility of taking leave to stay at home to care for sick children is much more obvious. For example, all sick children have a caring parent at home and not just the children whose parents successfully beg for leave days with colleagues. On your Facebook page you yourself cited the example of a nine-year-old French boy who was terminally ill. His father had used up all possible arrangements, on which his colleagues came up with the idea of giving up their leave days, so that the father could stay with his child until it died. The child eventually died, too. In a society that values humanism, such a thing cannot depend on the goodwill of colleagues. If a father wants to stay at home with a nine-year-old child who is terminally ill, it is up to the government to make that possible. Such a thing cannot be based on solidarity between workers, no matter how beautiful that one case was. I really don't think it's a good idea to generalize it. As a government, you have a great responsibility in that. I also had a question about the 1.9 percent of the wage mass that has to go to training. The percentage of 1.9 % is now released. In the end, the sanctioning mechanism that should be worked out has never been put in place, so that workers have not received the promised five-day training for 18 years. Now you have the right to five days of training in order to achieve five days of training. As I understand it, employees are entitled to two days a year. Would it not have been more correct to turn the objective into a right to five days instead of two days of training per year? I am also hungry about how you will ensure that the sanctioning mechanism is put in place effectively. Then I have a number of questions concerning the proposal that you launched on Friday to combat burn-out and stress. Let me say that this is a remarkable passage in a text of measures which we believe will only lead to an increase in the number of people who have fallen out. You are assuming that it is not so much a question of raising awareness of employers in order to make work workable, but, as I read, it is mainly a question of training workers in how to deal with stress and burn-out and, better still, how to prevent them from doing so. It is true that stress and burn-out are mainly related to degrees of freedom, to autonomy in execution and to the workload given to employees. We visited Flanders Synergy with this committee. In companies and organisations that they guide, they make a very strong effort, as far as possible, to have the greatest possible autonomy in the workplace itself, in the way people organise their work. That's what it's about in the end. That makes the difference between a healthy job and an unhealthy job. It is mainly linked to how an employer decides what happens within the company walls and the autonomy that an employee has in them. You're putting a lot of effort into this on the employee. I get the impression that the employer is getting a little forgotten about this. That is, in a way, the reversed world. Surely one cannot accuse an employee of being given too short deadlines or not being allowed to decide on how the work is carried out? Even more important than training employees in how to cope with this workload, I think it would be better to train employers in how to organise work differently and healthily. I've said that several times, and I'll do it again. I have the impression that you have not looked at our proposals very carefully or that you do not like them very much. We can do that, but then we have to have that discussion again. Is a necessary counterpart in the prevention of burn-out therefore not a training, guidance, coaching for employers? The employers' side is very important in this respect. I believe that many employers, including from smaller companies, are asking parties here to ensure that their employees can work with the highest possible autonomy. So my question is simple. Do you also intend to bet on the other side of the coin, especially on employers, so that they can get tools and insights on how to strengthen the autonomy of workers in the workplace? A good example of this are the companies, the companies and the school we visited with Flanders Synergy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u29	I also have a question that goes along with that, Minister. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that, during budgetary control, you have worked out an important reform provided for in the government agreement. In addition to the discussion on training efforts, part-time work and teleworking, this famous annualisation of the 38-hour week will now also be carried out. We must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that it has already been mentioned in many governmental agreements. To date, this has been repeated, also in otherwise composed coalitions. It is this minister who is now making effective work of it. Why is that necessary? Because we find that the employment opportunities for 55-plussers, for people of foreign origin or for low-skilled people are simply too small. Perhaps yesterday you read the opinion piece by Ive Marx, Professor in Antwerp. He has made the link between work and the fight against poverty. If people are given more work, poverty will also be reduced. He may be called Marx, but he is not a Marxist himself, but a wise professor who says useful things about the subject. Let's be honest. We can have great ideological debates about the fact that you are no longer looking at France, or the fact that Mr Tsipras has betrayed you. I wonder which country in the world can inspire you. I also referred to Venezuela and Zimbabwe, two countries that are hugely intelligible. But I think everyone with a little common sense knows they're recipes that can work. The annualisation of working time is one of these. This recipe emphasizes that workers can gain greater autonomy. The SERV has said the following: Employees need to have control over themselves and their environment. If workers are given greater autonomy, there is less chance that the workload will become unhealthy. This is the essence of companies in which the well-being of workers is good, absenteeism is low and the working pleasure is great. One can be laughable about that, but fortunately there are many people who like to work. That is also the essence of life. If one takes care of workplaces where people like to work, then the well-being of those people will improve, productivity will increase and symbiosis will also be found. That is the essence of this reform. Today too much emphasis is being placed on rules and procedures and too little on freedom and autonomy. So what the government wants to do is good. I wonder why people are so afraid of greater autonomy. Mr Minister, working at home is a concept that people have fought against for a long time. Conservative workers said it would be the perfect excuse for employees to do nothing. Employees were wondering if they would be able to do that. Today more and more people and more companies are asking for opportunities for homework because homework is a system that allows freedom and autonomy. Too many people are still in the old schedule where the employer has to be diametrically placed in front of the employee. As if there should always be an enemy image between the two. There is a perfectly legitimate demand for employees to be able to work a little more during seasonal peaks. That was, by the way, the success of Audi Brussels. That factory was saved by a system of annualisation. You nod yes, Mr Hedebouw. Apparently, you can give it to Audi Brussels, but not the rest of the economy. However, that is what is needed. There is also a legitimate demand for workers to stay at home, for example in co-parenting. When the children are home one week, one can work a little less, and the other week a little more. That's got to be a reconciliation, right? Those who say that this offers total freedom to the employer are mistaken. If one has to change timetables, one must also change the working regulations. So there has to be an agreement on that. Those who say that it is voluntary and that employers will determine everything are mistaken. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look for a solution that respects the balance. Minister, I have a number of questions for you. As far as I understand, there are two large shutters in the nualisation: a common pedestal and a sectoral menu to activate. The common base looks at a reference period of 1 year, with the average working time being 38 hours. Once again, this gives workers and employers the opportunity to conclude agreements on it. Today there is a system with a small flexibility. The reference period is now a quarter. That period is 1 year. This would not require a collective agreement, but an adaptation of the labour rules. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, is that common base directly and directly applicable to all companies and all employees? Secondly, there is a great deal of confusion about the practical application. Your agreement states, among other things, that the arrangements for determining overtime pay remain unchanged. The question is whether the payment for overtime will still be due from the 41st hour onwards. There is some discussion about this. After all, it is now possible to work up to 45 hours a week, but some interpret that if hours worked above 41 hours would still be covered by the system of overtime. I would have liked your answer to that. My second question concerns the sectoral menu. The sectoral menu means that agreements can only be concluded at sector level, for example to apply night work from 22:00 instead of 20:00, or also to conclude agreements to increase the maximum number of hours worked per day from 9:00 to 11:00. Such cases can only be activated at the time when the sector federation activates a company's individual file within the joint committee of the sector. That's a deal. In fact, a system was already provided for in the 1987 Act. That law is now almost 30 years old, but it has not brought about much change. Although that law was then announced as a major change, it did not bring with it many reforms in practice. Minister, what is the difference between your current proposals and the 1987 law? Is there a change? How can we avoid very few changes in sectors and individual companies? Minister, the various Members have asked their questions. I now give you the floor for your answer. In the meantime, we will also turn on the projector for your presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and comments. I propose that I briefly show some slides with a didactic presentation, which will answer many of the questions. I will also have a copy of these slides distributed, as well as a copy of the text of the agreement obtained in the government, so that you are very well informed. With regard to flexibility at work, we have organized two round tables. We have organised two round tables, on which we have asked for all the ideas. The social partners were also consulted. The result is a project supported by the entire government. It is the start of a social innovation, which is quite unique and offers a lot of opportunities. What is the purpose? The goal is very clear: to reduce stress and burn-out. (...) possible longer careers and increasing the competitiveness of enterprises in a dynamic economic context. What's the project like? During the budgetary negotiations a number of agreements were made on the modernisation of labour law, in the framework of the project workable and manoeuvrable work. Mr Massin, I can tell you and point out that, after consulting the Group of 10, we will submit to the Council of Ministers, before the parliamentary holidays before July 2016, a bill composed, on the one hand, of general rules and directly applicable by companies. It is also the answer to your question, Mr President: the direct applicability of the pedestal. I'll explain later. On the other hand, it will contain a menu of measures that can be activated at sectoral level. The second level, the menu level, is a choice menu from which the sector can choose. The purpose of the bill is to modernize labour and labour law, to create additional flexibility opportunities for businesses and to promote work that can be done for workers. The draft law will, of course, be submitted to Parliament for approval in the autumn, so that the legal framework will enter into force before the interprofessional and sectoral negotiations start for the period 2017-2018. It is very important to keep that timetable. There are also clear agreements. We want to do everything we can to ensure that the interprofessional partners can take this into account in their agreement by the end of the year. It is equally important that it can also be taken into account in the sectoral negotiations, which will normally start in early 2017. The question is why this must be done quickly. Well, if we are to keep up this schedule, we must also speed up effectively. Those who have just said that social dialogue is being mortgaged under this government are mistaken. I can prove that with numbers. The number of sectoral agreements and agreements in enterprises has never been as high as in the past year. Anyone who thinks that we do not take social dialogue seriously or that we do not give social dialogue every opportunity at sectoral and enterprise level must look at the figures, because they speak for themselves. Since 2012, there has been an unprecedented increase. Of course, everyone's full right to comment on this, but the debate must then continue with the figures in hand. I can get those numbers. They have also been mentioned in the media, because according to certain claims the social dialogue by this government would not be taken seriously. The numbers are here. Mrs. Kitir, I'll get you those numbers. The pedestal and the menu are clear. I also said I'd consult the Group of 10. This week, I will write a letter with the text approved by the government and which I will hand over to you later, asking to respond. I hope, however, that you will understand that the time span for all this is very short, because we want it to be taken into account both at interprofessional and sectoral level. Once again, I would like to stress that the two elements contained herein are the following:application générale et directe pour le socle, et activation par le secteur pour le menu. The first part, the pedestal, contains the general measures directly by applying the undertakings. General measures directly applicable by enterprises. First of all, the annualisation. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot is being sent out into the world, and I understand that until today you have only had what the newspapers have written about it. I hope that today we will be able to get rid of perceptions and plagiarisms, misrepresentations of things, with the elements on which the debate can still be held, which, unfortunately, have put people on the wrong track. In fact, it is an element which is included in the coalition agreement. It may have been in previous government agreements as well. When I was a member of the Group of 10, there was already discussion about the annualisation. So that's been going on for a long time. Those who are now shocked and say that I have carried out something that has totally fallen out of the sky have not read the coalition agreement correctly. Maybe they thought this government too would simmer it so that the next government could take it up again so that we could move on. No, we have incorporated it into the agreement now. For the sake of clarity, the reference period for the calculation of the average weekly working time shall be laid down by law as from 1 January 2017 at one year in which the daily working time 9 h 00 and the weekly working time 45 h 00 cannot exceed unless, of course, otherwise determined at sectoral level, which is an element of the menu. The President referred earlier to Audi and others. They have already made a number of additional agreements. However, this is 9 h 00 and 45 h 00, a duration that cannot be exceeded. The minimum internal limit is set at 143 unless otherwise decided at sectoral level on the basis of the menu. That is quite clear, and I will just read out the sentence: 'The rules governing the determination of overtime remain unchanged'. I do not think there can be much discussion about this. This clearly means that the 38-hour week is maintained. Today the average working time is calculated over at least one trimester and at KB or collective agreement can be extended to 1 year. This is already the case in many sectors! If I am not mistaken, there are now more than 1 million workers who are already in this case. Their 38-hour week is already calculated on an annual basis. Those who claim that this is a mockery and will change everything are mistaken. In many sectors, the 38-hour week is already calculated on an annual basis. More than 1 million workers have been working in this framework for a number of years. Discussions such as the hypothetical of family life, among other things, are unjustified. The situation of these more than 1 million workers should be looked at in practice. It is also a question of drawing up an agreement at sectoral level between trade unions and employers. This does not change the calculation of overtime either. In accordance with the agreement, this remains due, as the President said, from 38 or 40 hours. Moreover, this annualisation applies only to full-time employees. I hope that we have made an important decision with this annualisation. This framework needs to be further developed. The text of this agreement has yet to be transposed into a draft law. This draft law will be discussed in detail here. You will be given the opportunity to read exactly what this means. The second part of the pedestal: from 1 January 2017, all employees will receive a credit of 100 overtime per year that they will not have to catch up but can have paid or put on their career savings account. This concerns overtime which can be worked under an individual agreement between the employer and the employee, without exceeding 11 hours a day or 50 hours a week. The works council or the syndicated delegation shall be informed afterwards of the number of overtime worked. The sector can increase overtime credit to a maximum of 360. The wage of overtime is regarded as an ordinary wage for both social and fiscal purposes. The overtime is rewarded like the current overtime. The system of overtime is an additional system in addition to the existing system of overtime. The big difference is that here the overtime is paid in cash, do not have to be compensated or can be paid into the career account, if we are also done with that concept. We have already discussed the problem of education on several occasions. Investing in training is important for every company. The rule of 1.9 % on the pay mass has been going on for quite some time. Since the sanction introduced following the agreement of the social partners was annulled by the Constitutional Court and the Council of State is about to pass a judgment on it, we have chosen to resolve the problem here. From 1 January 2017, the current interprofessional target of 1.9 % of the wage mass will be converted into an interprofessional target of an average of five days of education per full-time equivalent per year. This system of annual right to education replaces the current compulsory education scheme of 1.9 % of the wage mass. It is important that we replace the 1.9 % rule and the penalty that could not be enforced. We continue to invest in training, because we ensure that workers are given the necessary training and we concreteise it in training days. We assume that the objective of five training days will be taken on board in a generally binding collective agreement. A sectoral CTC made mandatory which provides for training efforts in a growth path starting from the existing effort. This collective agreement provides for training efforts within a growth path based on the existing effort. There is a big difference by sector. Some sectors are already doing better than the 1.9 % rule, but others are not achieving this objective. We want each company to invest at least 1.9 per cent of the wage mass in training and we expect that a growth path in education, starting from the existing effort, will be put in the forefront of this objective, thanks to the sectoral consultation. At the same time, we do not want companies that are already doing better than the target set to reduce their efforts. There's something new, too. We are indeed trying to be innovative. At the level of the sector or the enterprise, individual training accounts per employee are possible, with an annual training credit at least equivalent to the existing effort, expressed in the wage mass of the employee concerned and framed within a growth path. This measure comes on the advice of experts who have examined how we could organise training in Belgium. They have concluded that training can be organized sectorally, through the sector funds, which are very important and are doing very good work, or through a new opportunity, the individual education account, especially if one evolves into a right to training days. A company pays money into an employee's education account, which can pay for training. Of course, we will have to answer a lot of questions at the time of drafting, for example, what if an employee changes his company. We are now launching a number of initiatives, such as the training account and the career account, which we need to develop step by step and which the regions can also enter into within their competences and for which they can make efforts. We have, of course, provided for a specific scheme for companies with fewer than 20 employees, so that this is also feasible for them. Even companies with fewer than 10 employees are not exempt from compulsory training, but they are exempt from the system. Moreover, the sanction from the previous legislature for companies not meeting the 1.9 % target did not apply to them either. We want to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in training; that is obvious. This can be done in an appropriate way, adapted to small and medium-sized enterprises. I can assure you that I know this sector very closely. Mr Hedebouw, there are a lot of things happening in this sector that you do not think will happen. There is understanding of the worker's situation. It's not right, as you suggest, for someone to raise capital and say they're the boss, who the employee should just listen to by working and end up with it. In many small and medium-sized enterprises, and I hope that in large companies too, the company will do so in a different way, if it is to be able to grow further. I have just set out the objectives. What happens when a sector or a company does nothing, for example because there is no interest in it? It's about the supplemental element. Suppose a company does nothing and doesn't comply with all its obligations. So what's the situation? In the absence of a sectoral collective agreement or an individual training scheme, each worker has an individual right of education each year. That right of formation will be two days in 2017 and two days in 2018, per full-time equivalent calculated within the company. The entrepreneur who does not make any training efforts at all and believes that he cannot be sanctioned, has for that period a supplementary two days on his leg. You have already understood that we assume that this can continue to grow, so that all sectors and all companies properly fill in the 1.9 % target, or five training days translated. Those days can be realized within normal working time or, at the choice of the employer, in the form of overtime to be performed without overtime outside normal working time. After evaluation of the system of annual entitlement to training, the training days can be integrated into the career savings account. We are also trying to build on this, which can grow further. The career savings account and the training account must be able to flow together at a certain point in time, creating a very coherent system. The formation to which the right to training refers may consist of formal training outside the enterprise or formal or informal training within the enterprise. That's what's happening now. However, we have explicitly added that the formation can also consist of modules related to stress prevention and burn-out. The employer indicates through the social balance sheet how the right to education in his company was completed. Colleagues, we are now focusing on those 38 hours. Again, more than 1 million people already work like this, without major problems. They also focus on overtime. I hope that, along the way, we will also focus on training, which will also be extended to training to prevent stress and burn-out. The individual education account can be incorporated into the career savings account. I think that's the right way to work. The fourth point concerns occasional telework: a legal framework for the admission and determination of workers' rights in respect of the reimbursement of costs and regulations on accidents at work and the administrative formalities required for occasional telework or for one or more working days or part of a working day. We will also make agreements and create a legal framework for occasional teleworking. Those are the four elements of the pedestal. Again, we ask for advice from the Group of 10, which does not really have that much time. The four elements of the pedestal apply directly to all enterprises and employees. Next to the pedestal there is the menu. From that menu you can choose a sector. Restaurant visitors can also choose from a menu and do not have to eat everything. I do not want to anticipate a number of opinions, but it is quite possible that the menu will be extended. We don't have a problem with that. The draft law will also contain a set of measures, one or more of which the sectors may choose to activate in their sector. In addition, the sectors can make use of the exceptions to the basic legal arrangements, as discussed. So we give here a rather extensive menu that includes a number of experiments. We have also tried to strike a balance between manoeuvrable and workable work. You may differ on whether we have succeeded or not, but know that we have done everything we can to combine flexibility and workable work. As far as manoeuvrable work is concerned, we still have a number of additional elements relating to working time. This is a global reform of working time with a role for the sectors and, in a subsidiary order, for companies. In the current situation, a normal working week is 38 hours. There are deviations possible up to 9 hours a day and 45 hours a week. Night work starts from 20:00. The derogations for existing general exceptions such as shiftwork or the fully continuous system remain. New is that deviations are possible for daily and weekly work limits up to 11 hours and 50 hours and that the start of night work can be shifted to no later than 22 hours 00. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that this is only possible if there is a sectoral agreement, i.e. if trade unions and employers agree at sectoral level. This must not, of course, lead to the exceeding of other conditions in the European Working Time Directive, such as achieving an average weekly working time of 48 hours, over four months, and an interruption of 11 hours between two different working periods. The derogations may be activated by a collective agreement or, in the absence of a trade agreement, by an undertaking or, in the absence of a trade union delegation, by the employment rules. This can only be done as far as the first question was raised by a representative organisation at sector level. The derogations apply only to aspects relating to working time limits, i.e. not to night work, for example. The president pointed out that the cascade already exists and asked if it would work. That's a fair question. That is why we have said that we will have an evaluation, one year after the entry into force, to see if the scheme works and is not too rigid. After a year, on the basis of the evaluation, we will adjust them if necessary. The working time rules laid down by law and by the company are set out in timetables laid down in the labour regulations. The transitional and warning arrangements between timetables are also laid down in the employment regulations if they are not automatically fixed. The reference period of one year may be extended sectorally to a maximum of six years for a number of legally determined activities, in order to adapt the working time to the production cycle. Audi has been using the plusminus conto for many years. We are now offering this opportunity for other sectors too, for the duration I have mentioned. Let me turn to the second point: temporary employment contracts for an indefinite period. That's a possibility in the menu. The possibility will be open to the conclusion of temporary employment contracts for an indefinite period with the legal condition, firstly, a wage guarantee scheme between contracts and, secondly, no possibility of temporary economic unemployment between contracts. This provides job security and income security for temporary workers and allows temporary agency firms to work with a partially permanent workforce, of which they know the expertise and experience. A few moments ago, reference was made to the four fifths of work. During the Easter holiday, one of the news items was that the number of part-time jobs has increased significantly, which is one of the reasons for job creation. All this can be activated by a sectoral collective agreement in the joint committee on temporary agency work. The third element of the menu is the reform of the system of groups of employers. This is currently being dealt with by the NAR. He's working on two runs. The first concerns small employers' groups in which several small enterprises employ one or more employees which they alone could not employ, but in group. The second track concerns larger employers who have groups of workers peaking and falling or having certain specialized tasks taken up. For this we await the NAR's opinion, which will reach us soon. As regards the simplification of part-time work, a draft has been submitted to the NAR. We also hope to receive this advice very soon. The draft law is subject to the following amendment, namely that changes to the timetable at the employee's request are no longer considered as multiple hours which may give rise to overtime payments. Furthermore, the existing notice periods higher than the minimum of one day in relation to the timetable laid down in sectoral collective agreements are maintained. I've had a lot of reactions about that. I have also received representatives from FEMMA and other organisations. It was intended to determine a soil, in particular that the timetable should be fixed at least one day in advance. There are sectors that already have one or two-day deadlines. However, the law states five days. My intention was to determine a soil, but not so that everyone would go to that soil of one day. If a five-day period is not a problem in certain sectors, it can be retained in its entirety. If everyone is sucked to the bottom and the deadline is only one day, even if the time limit is now five days, then we have to look at it, but you know that certain sectors are already working with that time limit without any major problem. I finish here with the part about agile work. I'm going into the part workable work. We have also included a number of proposals in the menu, such as career savings. That's not new. We have already talked about this in the past. A first phase will provide for the possibility of agreeing a framework at sectoral level on the saving of holidays. However, we have also extended it to company overtime. It will later become clear what time periods can be saved, the period in which they can be saved and the manner in which those days can be taken up by the employee. The same cascade applies: in the absence of a sectoral agreement and in so far as a representative organisation has raised the question at the level of the sector or at the individual enterprise level to the chairman of the Joint Committee. This scheme will also be subject to an evaluation in one year's time to see if it works effectively. Following a positive evaluation and following the planned study on career savings, the scheme could be extended to include an intersectoral system with portability of rights in a career account. Then we have the adjustments to the leave systems. If I am not mistaken, Mr President, the inventory of all leave schemes is under way. We shall see what the result is. Of course, we always have to make the budgetary framework clear. In any case, it is provided that the sector itself can decide to extend family leave by three months and palliative leave by one month. A draft law is also before the NAR for the sliding working hours. Starting smoothly and ending smoothly is already applicable in many companies, without major problems. We want this to be legalized and fully legalized, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the granting of leave days. It's really hallucinating how some people interpret that. Twitter is not really suitable for this. The reactions to the proposal are truly terrifying. Some already referred to France, where a law was passed in May 2014 following a very sad case. I understand that some have a warm heart to the French Government and others have a little less. I don't know if you know about the Time4Society project. That is a very nice project, born here in small Flanders. The non-profit organisation Time4Society asks for instead of giving money, to give time to enable social projects and to help others. Let me give you another example. A number of nurses and nurses from a hospital have helped in disaster areas. They asked leave, even unpaid leave, to do so. If they then put all kinds of initiatives in the hospital in order for people to give money, it is called moral pressure, criticism which is repeated for our proposal. Moreover, we are aware that this will not change the world. Giving away leave days is one of the elements in the menu. The way in which that very valuable element has been taken down shows that one has not understood it or testifies to malice. I hope you can see that. I'm going back to France. The law on giving up holidays for sick children has been in place for two years and there is no problem there. The number of days given increases. It is not, of course, the case that an employee with a sick child, who has tried everything, is asking for a leave of absence. That's not how it happens in France. One gives the opportunity. We now have 20 extra-legal holiday days, which are not to be given away and which normally lapse. Most companies give time to record them until February and then they lose those days. In France leave days are given away anonymously. If someone in the company claims to do so on the basis of the legal framework, they can take out a leave day, on top of the increased time loan. I don't really know what's wrong with that. Certainly from a warm social feeling I do not know what one can do about it. Besides, in France, the system works and doesn't cause any problems. MR and cdH have already submitted a legislative proposal on this, they get all the credit, but it needs to be explained. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u31	I said that I would also bring proposals from the opposition, and I have done so. The debate is open, but let us do it on the basis of texts and foreign examples. Time4Society, a very dynamic organization, says she's been trying to promote that in the companies for years. The debate is not yet closed. It is better to discuss this here instead of on Twitter, because that has only a limited number of characters. That makes things a little crooked. We'll take the proposals to the Group of 10. I assume that we will receive advice from the social partners. Mr Hedebouw, the working time regime of trusted persons is not regulated, nor is the autonomous employee. I also think that is a very interesting debate. The concept of the autonomous employee shows that we are very progressive. In addition to the self-employed and employees, there are already more than one hundred thousand freelancers. A lot of highly educated, talented young people are interested in engaging with an employer for a project, but not working as a wage earner. These are autonomous employees, who go from project to project. The question is whether a number of risk derivatives should not be regulated. We should not create a third statute, but there are two issues that need to be addressed: pensions and the problem of illness. When an autonomous employee is still young and dynamic, he works on one project after another. However, when he gets older, he no longer has projects and is entitled to a pension, we must be careful not to put him at the expense of collectivity, when he has had a specific statute for many years. When he becomes ill, gets cancer and needs to be cared for, he says he is no longer so autonomous and goes to contact employers. We have to take care of that. There are over a hundred thousand freelancers at work. Do we really have to deal with these two areas? That debate is still under way; we must certainly provide answers. As far as the 45-hour working week is concerned, I have said that they are fixed timetables and that there are overtime from 40 hours. I hope that this point has been cleared up. In connection with FEMMA, part-time work is not included in the annualisation. It's about full-time work. As far as flexi-jobs are concerned, which will be the subject of further questions in the near future, when part-time work is involved, we must be informed at least one day in advance of changed timetables. That provision shall be included in a draft. I'm sure I'd like the family's attention. As far as overtime is concerned, the current rules remain unchanged. So much for the comments. If I have forgotten to answer some of the comments, you will draw my attention to them. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a lot of questions to be asked about practical implementation. It is important that we first ask for the opinion of the Group of 10, that we put everything into a draft law and that the articles provide very clear answers to all problems or situations. You gave some examples, Mr. Massin. I can give an answer now but the most important thing is that we have a law with very concrete articles. On that basis, we can discuss further. Every move is welcome here. The debate will then take place. I remember debates on the index jump which were also very interesting and very concrete. That has taken quite a long time and I do not want to challenge you, but we will be able to go into this in detail when the draft law is before us for discussion. I'm gonna jump off the heel on the branch. Mr Vercamer, I believe that this training effort is something very important. I have already said that the current framework is not working and that the Council of State and the Constitutional Court were involved. The text that you will soon receive explicitly states that training and training constitute an investment. Mr Kitir, we have made efforts to reduce labour costs. It is not intended that wage costs should now rise very quickly because five days of training must be provided. The aim is to give the sectors an opportunity to fill that out themselves. A lot of people are already doing that. We want to make it clear to everyone that it's an investment. We take into account labour costs so that what we have achieved with the tax shift is not undone. Hopefully, many companies that do not do so now will invest in training. This formation can therefore be extended to stress and burn-out to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u32	You say that you have made an effort to reduce wage costs and you are going to ask employers who are not making an effort to create education. How did that match? You ask these employers to make efforts to give workers more training, but how does that match, because at the same time you say that it should not cost anything. I don't understand that very well. Could you point that out a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u33	There's nothing anyone can do right now. If I am not mistaken, Monica De Coninck introduced at least one training day or equivalent in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u35	It will indeed have to provide for two days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u36	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u37	However, I assume that someone who has not respected the law in the past will certainly be encouraged to do so now. Mrs Kitir, I understand you perfectly. I assume, however, that this will not be the last time I will be questioned about this. I have replied to the questions on the 'Don de Congé' and the 'Don de Congé' and the 'Don de Congé'. Mr Clarinval, I have already given answers concerning the 38 hours and flexibilities. This concerns individual situations. Mr. Massin, you asked a lot of questions. As far as the Group of 10 is concerned, I hope that my answer will have been very clear. Pour ce qui est du contrat indeterminé, in that regard, I think I have been clear. We start the savings account at the enterprise level. After an evaluation, this can be extended to several sectors or to all sectors. I've already given our vision. You asked a question about the salary. It is obviously the worker's salary that takes the leave, it is clear. Like in France, Mr. Massin. Mrs Willaert, you mentioned begging days. I hope this gets out of the world quite quickly, because that is certainly not the intention. It's gonna come on top of it. It's gonna come in a jar. The time loan for palliative leave is increased by three months. I hope that I have given an answer on training. I explained that the formation also refers to stress and burn-out. The whole issue of autonomy and being able to organise the job autonomously is part of the draft law. I referred to the sliding working hours. We will also do what is necessary in terms of inspection and well-being at work. Mr President, I think you are right: about creating jobs, keeping jobs, the fight against poverty, annuisation, you have made the right analysis. Again, this was completely misrepresented. It started with a newspaper that headlined: "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Everyone has followed that in order to interpret that in that sense. Companies already work with peaks up to 45 hours. So far, it's been at trimester level. These peaks can now be maintained a little longer and the lower number of hours worked will also take longer. You have also rightly referred to the employment rules. I also replied on overtime. I assume that when the draft law is finished, we can discuss it extensively here. We have the slides and I hope they can be distributed. I can also give you the government's text so that you can ask questions with more knowledge over the next few weeks and months. I don't want to challenge you with that either. When everything's ready, you don't necessarily have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u38	Minister, thank you for this very clear and thorough presentation of the reform that you are announcing here. I want to call it ambitious, but also revolutionary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u40	Yes, Mr. Hedebouw, we can be revolutionary without having a fist raised by standing on the barricades. We are reformers, but the reforms that are announced seem revolutionary to me. In any case, they are ambitious, because they affect many themes, some of which have been debated for a very long time without any progress – sometimes because of dogmatic or ideological blockages. The ambition is great by the extent of the panel and the depth of the measures that are planned. These solutions are revolutionary, because the problems were, in some cases, long unresolved. They are in line with their time, they are modern, as the approach is rather individual. So far, however, the responses had been a collectivist approach, inappropriate in view of the issues at stake. On the other hand, wanting to lead them together as you do by involving the social partners is fundamental and reflects the state of mind of the government, which is advancing despite the complexity of the issues. I will not address the many technical aspects. We will deal with them when we have the text in hand. It's a little early now. I draw your attention to the relationship with pensions, because you didn't mention it. The solutions in terms of training are ambitious to the extent that we want to reach 1.9%. However, these trainings must bring real added value to companies. Otherwise, they may sometimes be useless, and that is not the point at all. The aim is to be able to provide interesting training for both the worker and the employer. Minister, this is a hot reaction following your presentation, but I imagine we will have an opportunity to deepen the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u41	Minister, you are talking about social consultation, but it is beginning to become a real mantra. There are such specific proposals on the table of the Group of Ten that have been the subject of such difficult negotiations between the members of the government that, in the end, nothing can be amended. You're referring to the index jump, but we were in exactly the same configuration. You will therefore easily understand that part of the Group of Ten rightly considers that this is not social consultation. For a CD&V minister who has social consultation in his skills, pretending this kind of thing and repeating it as a mantra, leads to what you are no longer believed. Even the ACW buddies don't believe you anymore! When, in addition, you put on the table a project that is a real dismantling of the status or a start to dismantling the status, you no longer become credible when you say you want to do social consultation. I can understand that you were sticking to a government agreement because you are a correct person, who gave his word and who wants not to betray. I understand it, but then say it clearly and do not hide under the cover of the so-called social concertation! The senior officials of the ACW may believe you, but those of the base, those who vote for your party, no longer believe you! If you are interested, come and see the Walloon side too! For them, social consultation no longer exists; it is no longer possible. You say that a million workers are affected by a measure. This measure was taken in concert. It's been negotiated. Here you make it mandatory. We're not in the same frame at all! It's not the same thing at all! It's clear we'll get back to it. I assure you that social difficulties, you will know about them! And not just a little! We'll see what you say when you face it. You talk about training, about changes in training... it's virtual. Tomorrow you'll have a boss who will say, "Here, I'll give my worker two days of training." That's all. How are you going to control him? He will have declared it and that will be all. We'll believe him by word. Earlier, to joke, I said to Mr Hedebouw, who spoke that, for the social regression and the total dismantling of the protection provided by the laws to workers, there was no longer a shortage of the workers' booklet of the 19th century. But since we're in a virtual world, the equivalent today is the career account. I also talked about portability. If you do not want to fall back into the principle of the workers' booklet, you must have control of everything and not leave it to the boss, who must not have the opportunity to retain the account or prevent transmission of it... Otherwise, we really fall back into Germinal! You'll be responsible for it. As far as the interim is concerned, we will still have a lot of discussions. But speaking of an interim contract of indefinite duration, it is scornfully distorting the 1978 law on the employment contract. It is a great social conquest of the entire working world, including the one you frequent: that of the ACW. It was one of the most important social conquests. When you talk about indefinite temporary contracts, you distort the social conquest which in principle had established – everything else being the exception – that a worker was entitled to an indefinite employment contract. See what you're putting on the table today! It's not a finger anymore. It is the arm that you put in the gear that will crush you and that will completely crush all social negotiations, all the protections that may exist. I am well aware that at times it can be said that flexibility is needed and discussions must be held. Here, the flexibility that you introduce becomes mandatory for all, and this is no longer the exception. I'm going to the leave donation. It is not because this exists in France that this must be done in Belgium. I'm waiting for arguments. For me, that is not an argument. I can understand Christian charity. Well-ordered charity begins with itself. But when Christian charity is set up to unblock the principles of social security, I can no longer accept it. The principle in this area is that when we have a sick child, social security, career arrangements or working time arrangements allow people to take care of it. Here, we're in charity. I'm not safe anymore. I'm not in protection anymore. I'm in charity. If that is what you want to put in place, we will return to another even more regressive system which is the alms for the poor! That's what we're going to do, Minister! You don't realize what you're putting in place! Let me finish by telling you one thing: give me your texts! Give them to me! I am waiting there now and will consider whether there are any constructive comments. So we'll see if you're really constructive. However, I would like to tell you, based on what I have just heard, that we have left for relatively hard discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u42	Minister, you have chosen to respond very comprehensively, which is, of course, your right to do so, but that does not alter the fact that we will have to have the debate at a later date. After all, your proposal contains a great many elements. After what you have said today, I must confess that I am no more convinced than before. I actually only have more questions, of which I had a part in advance. For example, I hear you say that you have prepared a menu with different ingredients, from which employees can choose, and that is impossible to take or leave. You also started your explanatory statement by clearly denying that the social dialogue is being ignored. I have heard you explain that the time loan can be extended with motive for care by three months, but at the same time you say that it must remain budgetaryly neutral. I don’t know . I'm not sure how you'll realize that. In my view, time-credit costs money. The 1.9 % wage mass is converted into five days, but you have also invested in labour cost reduction, so you do not want to create a new wage increase. Everything must therefore remain the same, but it must be guaranteed for the workers for five days. An entrepreneur who does not fulfil his obligations and who also failed in the past, is still obliged to organise two training days. Those two days will also cost money. Who's gonna pay for that? I don't understand that very well. I also heard you talk about the variable timetables. You have even managed to reverse the reasoning in that regard. Where earlier after five days there was a need to be notified and negotiated in order to obtain a derogation, you simply reverse the reasoning. You take the minimum as the basis now and you say that you can negotiate, so that anyone who wants to have more days would know in advance. This changes the reasoning or changes the positions. After all, you started to tell that part of your answer that today more than 1 million workers are in a system of annualisation. You're proud of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u44	Minister, there is no shame in it either. At the same time, you have said that it concerns workers in sectors where negotiations have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u46	Just a minute, I'll get to that. You promised us that you would give us those figures, and I am interested in that. I am particularly interested in the figures for the sectors where that question was asked but was refused. You say here that more than 1 million workers are in a system of annualisation today. Then the question arises as to why you had to change that. We can do it today anyway. The only thing that has changed now is that we must stop negotiating. You say that consultation will take place at sector level. You also know how that works, Minister. One party has to ask. If one party does not agree, one goes to the enterprise level and then the employer decides whether or not it comes through. You just change all the positions in this story and into this system. You disguise all this under workable work and agile work. I think that is the worst thing, Minister. If you really want to do all this for workable work, it is much better to give the employee a much more protected framework than it is now. I'm sticking to my conclusion. Today, a lot is possible. You also mentioned night work. You said that you can start up to 22:00. Look at most factories. The night doesn't start until 22:00 and ends at 06:00. Most people on weekend posts work 12 hours a day and have an hourly bill based on one year and not per week. There's a lot of them today. The only difference is that we have to negotiate on this. What you are changing is that we must stop negotiating on this. I regret that. We will come back later to the text and the explanations you have given today, and above all to the figures you will give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u47	I hear from the clerk that the Minister is being asked in plenary. Do we suspend the meeting and resume it when the Minister is available again? Or are we going to continue the meeting another day? The Minister's cabinet announced that he would be available again for questions on 27 April. Who prefers the suspension and the continuation of the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u48	Minister, how much longer do you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u50	Yeah, we know. We're following on the computers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u51	I'd like to suspend, but it's gonna be greased, and after a while, no one's gonna be able to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u52	How long can you stay after? Until 11:00, midnight?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u53	Whatever you say. I'm going to reorganize my calendar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u54	Minister, how many drafts do you have to attend in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u55	There is the draft law on mortgage credit, but it may take some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u56	There are two draft laws. So the problem is that the Minister will come back and then have to go back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u57	Mr President, perhaps we can find an interim solution, because many questions date back to January and February and we really want an answer to many questions. Perhaps a written answer can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u58	All this is good for me, and I am prepared for the wisdom of this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u59	Mr President, I have a written preparation of all the oral questions, I can give the answer to all those present and then the questions can be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I assume that this debate is now closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u61	There were indeed replies from you and Mr Hedebouw, but there will be moments. We shall therefore conclude this debate here. What does the majority propose, Mr Vercamer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u62	Mr President, I do not agree with the minister, and I want this to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u63	I will consult the members for the remainder of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u64	I propose that as many questions as possible be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u65	I propose that the minister provide us with all the answers to the questions. On April 27th in the afternoon we will organise a new question session. We will then organize a new question-and-answer session and at that time you will be able to review these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u66	Will they be a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u68	Do we have to put in new questions? I propose that the question should lapse unless a new question is put.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic380x.u69	They'll stick around unless you know they're being converted.
