ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in July of last year you announced the expulsion of an imam for making a statement inciting hatred in our territory. You took an expulsion order from this radical imam of Verviers, Mr. Shayh Alami. But according to the latest information published on this subject, on 12 January again, this person was still on Belgian territory. My question, of course, is not only about this particular case – it would be a matter of great honour to him – but about the procedure as a whole and the measures that the government must and can take to deal with these situations that run counter to the principles of our rule of law. Mr Secretary of State, how many royal expulsion orders have been signed since 1 January 2015 for acts of incitement to hatred? Of these, how many did they target imams for radical preaching? How many of these decisions have been or are being appealed? Is it envisaged or possible to derogate from the suspensive nature of this type of remedy in cases that affect the public security of our country? Does the evidence of the Royal Order of Expulsion for Incitement to Hate allow you to have the preaching activity prohibited during the judicial proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u2	Secretary of State, following the Paris attacks last November, the Belgian government has taken 18 measures to further improve security. One of these 18 measures provides for the exclusion of preachers preaching hatred. They will either be placed under house arrest or deprived of their liberty or still be expelled. It is precisely on this last point that I wish to take stock of the situation with you today. If I say "Verviers" and "imam to expel", you immediately understand what business I want to discuss with you. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me what the state of affairs is right now? Can we hope for an early release? What about the appeal against the expulsion order brought by the person concerned? Has the Aliens Litigation Board already issued its decision? What is the status of the measure to exclude hate preachers? Is this measure actually applicable in the field or not? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Two royal expulsion orders have been signed since 1 January 2015 for acts of incitement to hatred. Only one targets an imam. To date, only the Council of Imams has lodged a suspensive appeal against the royal expulsion order. The procedure is still under way. To date, the person concerned is covered by Annex 35 (temporary stay) pending the processing of suspensive appeals. Article 39/79, paragraph 1, paragraph 7 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens confers a suspensive remedy against a royal expulsion order when it applies to a citizen of the Union or a member of his family referred to in Article 40a. This is about a person of Dutch nationality. A royal expulsion order terminates the legal stay and is accompanied by a ten-year entry ban. It shall not be enforced until the appeal has been dealt with. If the imam commits acts contrary to public order, it is up to the justice to prosecute him. Mrs Cassart, as far as compliance with the Privacy Act of 8 December is concerned, you should know that there is an individual file. However, as this issue has been discussed several times in this Parliament, I will give you some additional explanations not on the content, but on the procedure. I signed a royal expulsion order on 27 July 2015 for this Imam de Dison. On 11 August 2015, he lodged an application for suspension with the Aliens Litigation Board. He was in possession of a temporary residence document, Annex 35, because he had submitted an application for suspension and annulment. He appeared on 7 December 2015 before the Advisory Committee for Foreigners, which advised negatively on the expulsion of the person concerned. He appeared on 7 December before the Committee of Opinion for Foreigners, which gave a negative opinion on the expulsion. We have worked hard on this dossier to make it even more legally stronger and refined. That's why I made a new decision. I have lifted the old royal order for expulsion and immediately issued a new royal decree for expulsion. I decided to abolish the Royal Decree of 27 July 2015. I immediately took a new royal decree on expulsion, which was signed by the King on 4 March. Both decisions were served on Thursday, 10 March, by a recommendation to the municipality of Dison. Quite specifically, we have the absolute intention of getting hate preachers out of the country. The list we've been given contains less than five hate preachers known to state security. With one of them, the imam involved from Dison, we can get to work immediately. I had a file drawn up by the administration and on 27 July I served his royal expulsion order. He challenged that by going to the Council on 11 August for Alien Contests. Since that challenge has suspensive effect, he does not have to leave the country in the meantime. As long as the procedure runs, there is a suspension in force which prevents him from being deported. The procedure continues as follows: He is present at the Advisory Committee for Foreigners on 7 December. The committee has, unfortunately, advised negatively, with the result that I have instructed my administration to make the dossier even more legally. In this context, I issued a new royal order for expulsion on 4 March, which also abolished the old royal decree. On 10 March, Dison's municipal administration was informed of this by registered letter. The city council will probably have received that letter last Friday or otherwise yesterday. The registered letter was in any case sent to Dison's municipal council on Thursday 10 March. So we're not giving up. We don't stop. Let's go on. There is always the possibility of a new suspensive remedy. This legal procedure is not over. It exists. That is the procedure for which we voted an amendment a quarter of an hour ago. And I intend to achieve administrative simplification of this procedure because you will understand that it is really very cumbersome. Hate preachers are, in my opinion, more dangerous than young people. So, in my view, the hate preachers are the most dangerous of all. We really need to work on this. I'll keep doing that. It's a very difficult legal procedure. However, we are not giving up and are very determined. Together with my administration, I will exhaust all legal possibilities to get the imam concerned out of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u4	So you withdrew the first royal expulsion order, replaced by another. On this occasion, the defence is entitled to bring an action. It may be deplored in some cases, but that is the rule of the game! On the other hand, what leads you to think that the royal decree you have just made is stronger and more effective than the one taken in July 2015? I ask only to believe you, but what are your legal arguments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u5	We have received additional information about the imam. The police and intelligence services conducted the investigation and I am sure that the information available to me is very important, particularly for the EAC. I'm sure we'll win with this recourse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the completeness of your answer. Different elements can be identified. I will first mention this list of hate preachers and I think it is essential that it be kept up to date so that we can keep track of the progress of the case. Secondly, I have observed the follow-up of the various orders that you have taken and I am without a word in front of this decision of 7 December. This commission does not realize the danger of these hate preachers, nor the fact that our aim is to maintain a certain level of security in this country! Thank you for your decision to strengthen the legal aspects of the case in collaboration with the administration. I believe that this is the only way to implement, at some point, these expulsion decisions. Indeed, strong legal frameworks are essential in this area and the administration must work with your firm. If we are to propose a bill or a bill to Parliament, it is in this direction that we must go in accordance with the principle of zero tolerance. That is the message that needs to be conveyed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last December I asked you about setting up and organising hotspots at the borders of the European Union. The starting point is that the hotspots are responsible for receiving and identifying refugee candidates, collecting their testimonies, taking fingerprints and determining whether they can be accepted as refugee candidates on European Union soil. At the time my question was dealt with in committee, it was clear that the disaster was total. In Greece, it was planned to create five hotspots in Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos. At the time, only Lesbos' hotspot was operational. The situation was the same in Italy where only one of the six hotspots planned was operational, namely that of Lampedusa. You told me that those planned in Porto Empedocle, Trapani, Augusta, Taranto and Pozzallo had to be installed by the end of the year. In your reply, you also told me that a European summit was taking place a few days later in Brussels and that this was an opportunity for Belgium to express once again its serious concerns about the poor functioning of the hotspots. You added that Belgium had sent experts so that these hotspots could be set up. Since it's a disaster, it would be best if we could get these experts back. Secretary of State, can you tell me if the situation has changed and if so, in what sense? What is the situation in Greece and Italy? Are the planned hotspots now operational? How did the European Summit take place? Are progress made as a result?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u8	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, so far eight hotspots are operational out of the eleven planned: two in Italy and six in Greece. This is, first and foremost, a responsibility of the countries concerned which have an external border. Under growing pressure from Europe, the Italian and Greek prime ministers recently confirmed that all the other hotspots would be operational as quickly as possible. This is an important step. However, it is equally important that sufficient capacity for reception and detention be provided in Italy and Greece with a view to ensuring adequate reception of asylum seekers and the prompt return of illegal migrants. Italy and Greece have made significant strides in recent weeks. The additional hotspots have been built and the registration of migrants is now almost systematic. There is, however, one sensitive point: a very small number of them are seeking asylum in Italy or Greece. However, this is a necessary condition for participating in the relocation process. Moreover, migrants who do not apply for asylum are allowed to pass without hindrance, in violation of the European rules in force. These irregular and secondary flows must end as quickly as possible. At the moment, due to the closure of the borders in the Balkans, the situation is changing day by day. This has changed sharply in the last few weeks. The closure of the Balkan road will finally drain the secondary roads. At the same time, the European Union is negotiating with Turkey on the recovery of all migrants who are not in good standing and who land on the Greek islands. In return, the European Union would resettle Turkish refugees from Turkey. The situation in Greece will have to stabilize through humanitarian assistance and capacity-building. Asylum seekers who are currently in Greece, provided they are taken into account for relocation, will be distributed within the European Union. The aim is for the European Heads of State and Government to close this agreement at the summit next Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for taking stock of this important and slow-moving issue. We must continue in this direction to be able to manage this immigration crisis. Next week's European Summit will continue to look at this issue. In my view, it would be interesting if we could assess the situation in Parliament every month or every two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u10	Questions Nos 8966 and 8993 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, staff were attacked by unaccompanied asylum seekers in several asylum centres in Sweden. These incidents have prompted me to ask the following questions. How many unaccompanied underage asylum seekers does our country count? Have there been any incidents of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in our reception centres? How will unaccompanied minor asylum seekers continue to be accompanied upon arrival in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have three different questions about unaccompanied minors, but I will group them together. Europol warns that at least 10 000 unaccompanied minors disappear without a trace after their arrival in Europe. Child Focus treats 60 such cases in our country. However, there are no exact figures on the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. Recent figures from the Voogdij department on the number of unaccompanied minors registered show that there were 5 047 unaccompanied minors in 2015, of which 3 099 applied for asylum. What measures are being taken to better protect unaccompanied minors so that they do not fall into the hands of traffickers? To what extent does our collective centres provide for follow-up measures for the protection of unaccompanied minors? I know that Special Youth Assistance has already taken a number of measures, but I do not know what is happening in our collective centres. The sector calls for better registration of unaccompanied minors, with a clear definition of the person concerned and not just name and fingerprints, so that an immediate call can be launched when young people disappear. What registration is being made with unaccompanied minors? Are you prepared to adapt that registration to ensure proper follow-up by the police and security services when an unaccompanied minor would disappear? What instructions are given to report and follow disappearances? I shall then come to my second question. I had actually submitted this question in writing, but I did not receive a written reply. Since the entry into force of the law, how many unaccompanied minors have submitted a double procedure, both protection and asylum? How many have applied for asylum? I've received the figures in the meantime. Is the figure of 3 099 for 2015 correct? What about 2016? How many unaccompanied minors have applied for protection status? Is there a difference between the countries of origin there? I assume, after all, that asylum is sought sooner if one comes from a war zone. Finally, a particularly vulnerable group is that of unaccompanied minors. The number of minors is increasing and the number of asylum seekers has also increased. There should be specific attention and additional guidance in the reception for the handling of procedures. The law of 26 February allows both procedures to be initiated at the same time. What is the current lead time for asylum applications of unaccompanied minors? We have received signals that young people are no longer being called for an interview with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Something's going on out there. Is it true that a questionnaire is now being worked on, to be completed between the moment of registration and the first interview, with regard to identity, family, escape route, etc.? What is the purpose of this questionnaire? Why is it being introduced? Does this apply to all unaccompanied minors or only to unaccompanied minors from certain countries? What if the questionnaire is not completed or incomplete? Does this have an effect on the asylum procedure because this is something new that has been introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, we heard from various organisations that some asylum seekers receive two or themselves three convocations before they are actually registered. This means that people have to stay longer in pre-care. However, we can see that the figures for January are falling. I thought this was also the case for February. We are now back at June 2015. At that time, there were no ceilings on the number of applications per day. Why is this still being held? Or was I misinformed? It is important that people are taken into regular care as soon as possible. We hear alarming reports from various NGOs that monitor the ranks of the DVZ that vulnerable groups such as minors literally remain in the cold. Minors also receive a notice of convocation, which, on several occasions, did not indicate the age of the minor, but was of a higher age. It says +18, despite the fact that one says that one is under 18 years old. The minors can go to pre-care with their notice letter for the night, but it closes during the day so that young people literally end up on the streets. Unaccompanied minors who are not immediately registered and received are vulnerable to people with bad intentions. We're receiving reports from potential recruiters for prostitution, housekeeping and undeclared work. According to Europol, 10 000 unaccompanied minors disappear without a trace after their arrival in Europe. Mr Secretary of State, given the current numbers, why do asylum seekers still receive notice letters? What is the ceiling of the number of applications per day? How many people a day have been registered since January? I'd like a breakdown by family, single people, minors. Minors are a vulnerable group. Is it true they're getting a notice of convocation? Will you take additional measures to register and protect the unaccompanied minor the day itself? You paid a visit to Norway. That has received less resonance than Turkey. We heard that you were impressed by the reception of unaccompanied minors in Norway. What lessons do you take from Norway? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, thanks to European funds, we in Antwerp once had a very good project to integrate unaccompanied minors into society. Apparently, it's been abolished. You might want to know more about that. Do you have figures on unaccompanied minors in Belgium from Europol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u14	That's a lot of questions about numbers on various subjects. I'll do my best. Regarding registration, DVZ tries to give priority as far as possible to vulnerable persons, including unaccompanied minors. It goes without saying that the most vulnerable are immediately registered. However, I would like to point out that many people are mistakenly pretending to be minors in order to obtain priority treatment. At the moment, there are less than 100 people in pre-care. They get bed-bath bread there. So I don't see the problem. The Voogdij service is competent for the identification of minors on the basis of description functions. In case of age doubt, in about 50% of cases, the age is verified on the basis of interviews with the official, on the basis of documents and of course also on the basis of medical tests on wrist, teeth and collarbone. These tests show that out of the 50 %, about 70 % to 80 % are of age, with a firm margin of error. In total, only 2 out of 3 of those who say that are actually underage. In 50 % of the cases there is no doubt, in 50 % there is doubt, and of this 70 % to 80 % there is no doubt. Of course, we don't do bone scans on someone who looks ten years old. You understand. It all costs a lot of money, too. Since the start of the crisis, there has always been good cooperation with the relevant administrations. There is also a weekly meeting of the Task Force on Reception which explicitly discusses the issue of unaccompanied minors. The Voogdij department, the Foreign Office, Fedasil and so on are represented. We have increased the number of age studies. This was necessary to safeguard the number of places available from abuse by improper minors. I will continue to work towards further simplification and speed up the process. Furthermore, in collaboration with Fedasil and DVZ, we are studying to have the medical tests carried out at the time of registration, so that we are immediately sure. However, that is not so obvious. At the moment, the tests are being carried out in hospitals, where appointments are needed with the doctors. We had hoped that we could simply e-mail the scans, but we are working on it. I won't say much about it, because that's no use. As regards reception, the unaccompanied minor shall be assigned to an observation and orientation centre in the first phase. There are in Steenokkerzeel, Neder-over-Heembeek and Sint-Pieters-Woluwe. If there is any age doubt, they are taken to Holsbeek, Sugny or the Klein Kastiltje. In these centres protective measures are taken upon arrival, e.g. control of the youngster's network, an adapted permission system, etc. During the observation period, the young person's vulnerabilities are identified and additional protection measures are taken, e.g. special guidance. Here there are 505 places. In the second stage, the unaccompanied minor shall be assigned to a collective centre after a period not exceeding one month. Here they are collected in separate wings of a centre with a special function for unaccompanied minors or in a centre where only unaccompanied minors are received, e.g. Kapellen, Rixensart or Sint-Truiden, for a total of 1 460 places. After obtaining a residence permit, young people may move to the individual care facility. That's stage three. This is done in consultation between the guardian, the center and the younger self. Then an individual guidance plan is drawn up, where the maturity to be able to live alone is analysed. This is a total of 211 places. For your information, 1 751 unaccompanied minors are currently being received in our network. As far as the incidents are concerned, Mr Metsu, for 2015, figures are only available for the federal centres and only for incidents involving personnel. It concerns eight registered incidents involving unaccompanied minors for the year 2015. The rules on penalties shall also apply to unaccompanied minors. As regards disappearances of unaccompanied minors, a disappearance procedure is being followed in all centres. Each unaccompanied minor shall be registered at his place of reception upon arrival. Such registration shall form the basis for a disappearing sheet, which may be completed later, which shall be delivered to the police services. Since 2008, there has been a protocol agreement between different agencies, Fedasil, the DVZ, custody, police, prosecutor's office and Child Focus, regarding the disappearances of unaccompanied minors. That protocol describes the process and procedures, which aim to ensure efficient handling. It is currently being reviewed, within the framework of the Action Plan against trafficking in human beings 2015- 2018, in particular the preparation of a vademecum on unaccompanied minors. In order to prevent disappearances, there are monitoring times during day-to-day operation in night-care centres, such as night-to-night checks, school-to-school checks and permission systems. In Norway there was a huge influx of unaccompanied minors in 2015. In total, 5 297 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum. The increase there is similar to the huge increase which we were also able to see. The reception of unaccompanied minors also starts in Norway in a transit centre. The minors stay there for about a month, then flow to a regular center. In Norway, a distinction has been made between under 15 year olds, by youth care, and plus 15 year olds, by the Norwegian reception agency. It is necessary that we continue to work on the reception of the least 15-year-olds by the Communities in our country, who are responsible for youth care. I recently signed a convention with the French Community, which provides for the reception of unaccompanied minors, covering a total of 130 places. With the Flemish community, I also aspire to a convention, for 150 places. It's currently being worked out. So things are going well. We're not here yet, but we're almost there. I note that in 2015 an asylum application was examined simultaneously for 6 out of 160 unaccompanied minors who had applied under the law of 12 September 2011. So 3 917 of the 3 919 unaccompanied minors who applied for asylum in 2015 did not submit a simultaneous application under the 2011 law, which is very exceptional and surprises me. In 2015, therefore, only two asylum seekers applied simultaneously under the 2011 law, which was our law at the time, while for six applicants under the law of 12 September 2011, an asylum application was examined simultaneously, because four of the six persons concerned had submitted an asylum application before 2015. In 2015, 154 of the 160 unaccompanied minors who applied under the law did not apply simultaneously for asylum. Among the six persons with two simultaneous procedures were two Angolans, one Albanian, one Congolese, one Guinean and one Liberian. Since it concerns a small number of people, it is impossible to draw a conclusion about the country of origin. So there are very few double procedures. There are 160 persons who have invoked the 2011 Act. There are about 4,000 people who have applied for asylum. There are only six double procedures, of which four have been applying for asylum for some time. I've been able to give you some elements. I don't know if I've forgotten business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u15	You have not yet answered the question of whether registration can be improved. Now that only happens because of the name and age. One asks whether a description and certain characteristics of the person concerned can be given. In the event of a disappearance, the person can be traced more quickly and one can act more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u16	I think that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u17	No, that's not happening right now. That's what people tell me about the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u18	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u19	You have not yet answered my question on the average duration of asylum applications for unaccompanied minors. A new document must be completed. Or should I ask that question again next time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u20	Let me read out the answer in that regard. The lead time is impossible to calculate. This depends, among other things, on nationality. The delay and lead time are increasing, but for some nationalities such as Syrians things are still going smoothly. Compared to other Member States, we have relatively fewer files that remain longer. The lead time is still not quite clear. I don't have any figures on that right now. I'm gonna have to ask. That's a lot of work for the CGVS. All this has to be calculated statistically, which is not obvious. I'd rather they deal with files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u21	Unaccompanied minors must fill out a questionnaire. That's something new. What's the purpose of that? I didn't get an answer to that. Why is this questionnaire being introduced suddenly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u22	That's only for Afghans. As in the case of other categories of asylum seekers, a very sharp increase in the number of asylum applications has led to a delay in treatment for the unaccompanied. The average lead time of an asylum application submitted by an unaccompanied person has thus increased. No data are available on the extent to which the average lead time has increased. The delay in handling files is due to delays at different levels within the chain, at DVZ, at the CGVS, at the Voogdij service and so on. I can confirm that the CGVS has decided to send a specific questionnaire to unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan prior to the interview regarding their origin, identity, identity, identity and other documents, both as regards the unaccompanied and their parents. The CGVS has taken this decision in order to better prepare the asylum files. You must ask Mr Van den Bulck why he did that. This questionnaire will be introduced in the first place in the context of asylum files submitted by unaccompanied persons from Afghanistan, but the CGVS states that it is not excluded that this practice will also be extended to unaccompanied persons from other countries or to other categories of asylum seekers, i.e. not only unaccompanied minor aliens. It is difficult to reply to this as a State Secretary, while it concerns an aspect of the CGVS in all independence, taking into account the relevant legal provisions, it will assess this. The CGVS decided at some point to submit that questionnaire to the Afghans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u23	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u24	You should ask Mr Van den Bulck. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u25	We shall then have to invite Mr Van den Bulck, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State, it seems that questions about asylum policy can no longer be answered by you, because you say that I should ask Mr Van den Bulck. Then maybe we'll have to see him more than twice a year. If he changes his policy, we'll have to invite him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you say that they can go to pre-care and then ask what the problem is for these unaccompanied minors. The pre-care is there for the night, before sleeping, there they cannot go during the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u27	I'm sorry, it's not right what you're saying. That hasn't happened in months. You're basing yourself on the wrong information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u28	Since when did that change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u29	Since the beginning of winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u30	For months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u31	Since the beginning of winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u32	Longer since November or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u33	So the minors can go there during the day? I do have some experience with the system of guardians. Frankly, the quality of most guardians should be encouraged. Control can also be improved. One can have 14 minors under his custody. You can imagine what the quality of the guidance is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u34	There too, there are people who have more than 14 minors in their custody. I believe those statements are on your behalf. In any case, custody is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but I take note of your statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u35	I've had experience with that. I've seen a lot of custody files. I notice that many guardians collect a fee but poorly accompany the young. There are guardians working on it day and night, but there should be more control over the quality of guardians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u36	That is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u37	I would like to respond briefly. Apparently, there are only six double applications. I don't think that's much. In the past, have I asked whether sufficient information is being provided? Apparently there is a problem and DVZ does not know, when people apply for asylum and apply for special protection, which documents they must deliver. Apparently, DVZ then asks to wait and deal with the asylum procedure first and only then to look at the special protection. I got that signal. I hope you will look into this further and see how we can resolve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic365x.u38	I'll check it out.
