ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u1	Mrs Fonck turned her question No 9345 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 9829 will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u2	Mrs Dierick, today is a good day to ask such a question, because the agricultural sector is indeed a sector in crisis and it needs specific measures. Having said that, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u3	Mr President, we share the same concern, but the possible solutions may be different, because there are several possible instruments, including, for example, recognition as a sector in crisis. Minister, some sectors can be recognised as a sector in crisis. It has already been decided, among other things, that all agricultural sectors, the Brussels neighborhood trade and catering will be recognised as a sector in crisis. The self-employed in these sectors are provided with certain facilities for the payment of their social contributions. In future, they will also be able to benefit from a reduction in their provisional contributions. The aim is to ensure that self-employed persons working in these sectors no longer have to prove that their sector is in crisis as part of the adjustment of their social contributions. I have the following questions, Minister. When exactly will the agricultural sector, the Brussels neighborhood trade and the catering industry be recognised as a sector in crisis? How long will this recognition take? Can you explain the benefit for the self-employed if their sector is recognised as a sector in crisis? What does that mean in concrete terms? Since last year, self-employed people may choose to pay more or less contributions themselves if they expect income to be higher or lower. A reduction in the contributions to be paid can only be based on objective elements. Can you explain the benefit of recognition as a sector in crisis compared to the objective elements regime? Where is the difference and what are the advantages and disadvantages of one? Can you also explain the role of the social insurance funds in this new recognition? Since this is a new regulation, I would also like to ask you when it will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, as you mentioned, I wanted to simplify the possibilities for some sectors recognised as sectors in crisis to adjust the provisional contributions downwards. On the one hand, it concerns the agricultural sector and, on the other, the Brussels neighbourhood trade and catering sector. We must note that Vilvoorde and Zaventem were also included in the scope. We must also note that the payment facilities granted in connection with the attacks were extended to the whole of Belgium and to all sectors, but the self-employed must show that his difficulties are linked to the attacks of 22 March. This recognition was the subject of a circular dated 26 March 2016 to the social insurance funds. It applies immediately and therefore already applies to the provisional contributions for the whole of 2016. The recognition of a sector as a sector in crisis facilitates the possibility of adjusting the provisional contributions downwards. This recognition shall apply for the year for which the payment facilities are granted and for the following two years. Then I come to your second and third questions. The calculation of contributions has been reformed since January 2015. In that context, each self-employed person must pay a contribution provisionally determined on the income of three years earlier, but may adjust that provisional amount at any time of the year, taking into account the effective income in that year. In order to reduce that amount, the law provides for the self-employed to provide objective elements for that reduction, in principle at least two elements, with regard to two criteria, such as sickness, maternity, loss of a major customer, financial difficulties, a reduction in turnover or exemption from contributions. The advantage given to the self-employed in the sectors recognised in crisis is that they are active in those sectors as such is a criterion which should not be the subject of any evidence. It is therefore sufficient for the self-employed to provide as a second element an objective element for the reduction of revenue in order to have a complete file and to be allowed to pay reduced contributions. For example, it may be a VAT return or a document demonstrating the decrease in the prices at which its production was sold. This is the case, for example, in the agricultural sector. It should be noted that farmers were also asked by the social insurance funds to take into account the specific situation of farmers who are subject to the flat-rate tax on personal income tax. Fourthly, the funds have a fundamental advisory and control role under the general mechanism for the reduction of provisional contributions. The law provides for limits for the adjustment of provisional payments. It has also provided for increases in some cases of an unjustified reduction in the provisional contributions, in other words, where the self-employed person has paid reduced contributions and his income is ultimately not so low. The funds must therefore verify that the conditions are met, but they must also advise the self-employed to avoid that they may be faced with significant regularisation and increases. Fifthly, the general mechanism for reducing the provisional contributions is the subject of constant monitoring within the monitoring committee of the reform. That committee, which brings together all stakeholders under the chairmanship of my cabinet, meets at least quarterly to examine the proper functioning of the new methods of calculation, in particular as regards reductions. The Committee will integrate the new measures into its monitoring. In addition to the monitoring, a general evaluation was provided by the general management committee of the social status of the self-employed, which should be completed by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It is good that there will be an extension to other sectors throughout Belgium in response to the terrorist attacks of 22 March. That is also a concern of my colleague, who had already asked a question about this in plenary. I think this is a good measure taken by the federal government. The recognition of a sector in crisis is good, because it is easier to meet those two conditions. The role of social security is also very important, especially the aspect of sensitisation. We must inform and raise awareness of farmers so that they can take the right measures. I am also satisfied with the constant monitoring. I would, however, like to ask for this to be made sufficiently clear to the agricultural sector that they can avail themselves of this measure, that an information campaign be launched through various channels so that they know that there are new measures. I think this is a very good measure, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the number of self-employed in the secondary profession is increasing year after year. We can see that in the figures, the latest figures of the RSVZ show indeed that the relative share of those self-employed persons in the secondary occupation increased by 10,03 % in 2014 compared to 2010. That's a big deal. Those self-employed people are not building up pension rights today. It has been mentioned a number of times here in the committee, including when discussing the policy paper. They do build up rights in their main profession as, for example, civil servant or employee. Only if a selfemployed person has contributed to the rate of a selfemployed person in the main occupation for his secondary occupation may he have acquired pension rights for his selfemployed activity in addition to his occupation. The government agreement stated that new improvements in the social status of self-employed workers would be examined in so far as the budgetary option allowed. For example, the possibility of granting a pension right as a counterweight for a minimum amount of social contributions paid by self-employed persons in a secondary occupation will be studied by the ABC Self-employed. This will be done in order to take better account of periods of mixed activity, especially where there is a problem when mixed activity is involved, part-time as a wage and part-time as a self-employed person. In addition, the government agreement and your policy paper also include the fact that the second pension pillar should be made more accessible to self-employed persons who work as natural persons. Unlike the self-employed in a company, they do not have the option of building a pension in the second pillar under the 80% tax rule. Are you in favour of giving self-employed people the opportunity to build up pension rights? How would you see that? Do you see how many self-employed people reduce their main activity as employees or civil servants and thus build fewer rights there in favour of their self-employed activities in the secondary professions? Have you already commissioned the ABC Self-employed to examine the possibility of granting pension rights to self-employed persons in the secondary occupation? Why is that? Why is that? Your policy paper states that you will continue several projects in 2016, including access to the second pension pillar for self-employed persons active as a natural person. What is the current state of play in this dossier? What timing do you provide to make this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the granting of pension rights to self-employed persons on the side of the profession must be carefully examined. Firstly, there are many technical aspects and questions which need to be answered, such as how that pension will be calculated, under what conditions it can be granted, whether a self-employed person is entitled to a minimum pension, etc. Secondly, budgetary costs must be manageable. Finally, account must be taken of the pension reforms which the National Pension Committee is considering or will be considering. For your second question, I do not have any figures which reflect the exact evolution of the employment rate as an employed person or as an employed person. The statistics of the National Institute for Social Insurance of Self-employed Persons allow the determination of the number of self-employed persons who were first employed and who switched to a main occupation during the course of one year. The most recent data refer to 2014. In 2014, there were 11 152 self-employed persons in the secondary profession, the year before known as self-employed in the main occupation. This represents 4.83% of the total number of self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. I have some tables for you, Mrs Smaers. Of course, there are also self-employed persons in the main occupation who become self-employed in the secondary occupation. For example, we see that in 2014 8 010 self-employed persons in the main occupation were still known as self-employed in the secondary profession a year earlier. This corresponds to 1.17 % of all self-employed persons in the main occupation. This means that in 2014 there was a net outflow from the Staff Regulations to the Staff Regulations of 3 142 self-employed persons. They represent 1.54 % of self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. I also have the old figures for you. These figures have to be taken into account. Not every self-employed person consciously chooses to become self-employed in the main occupation. Some people lose their jobs or benefits, which automatically makes them self-employed in the main occupation. There are no statistics on the reasons why someone changes their statute. For your third question, I can answer that the ABC has not yet been asked to examine the problem. Until now, there have been other priorities, such as the evaluation of the law on employment relations, an assessment of bankruptcy insurance, various measures in pensions and measures to combat social fraud. The ABC is also investigating the introduction of a credit system for the pension of the self-employed. This is a subject on which the National Pension Committee is currently examining. Of course, the granting of pension rights to self-employed persons in the secondary occupation is linked to this. As far as your last question is concerned, the social part of the preliminary draft law is ready. I asked for the agreement of the Minister for the Budget. The text for the fiscal part, concerning the second pillar, which falls within the competence of my fellow Minister Johan Van Overtveldt, is not yet ready. It is my wish to ensure this year that every self-employed person is given the opportunity to build a second pension pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the copy of the figures. I would also like to thank you for the rest of your answer to my question. You said in your reply that there is currently no mandate for the ABC to study the problems of self-employed persons in the field of employment and the building up of pension rights. Is it then intended to give that order in the future? Yes. Okay. You are going to give that assignment in the course of the year or in the coming months. As for the last part of my question, the second pension pillar, I understand that your hatch is ready to be realized. The work of Minister Van Overtveldt, the financial part, for that second pension pillar still has to be done? Then we should also follow that up with Minister Van Overtveldt so that this can be dealt with soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u9	Mr President, Minister, there are all sorts of reports about difficult price negotiations. The one-off and chain-funded crisis premium would be charged by supermarkets in order to buy milk even cheaper. However, according to the Boerenbond, this would go against the agreements. In addition, there is another problem that dairy farmers face in today's low economy. The relationship with suppliers would no longer be good for some buyers, given the current circumstances. The exit threatens producers of milk with which the customer knows no way to go.However, since 2009 interprofessionally clear agreements have been made in a code of conduct with minimum notice periods. The last slice of the milk payment has already been paid. Is it true that this surcharge is charged by the supermarkets in order to buy milk cheaper? If so, is this contrary to the agreement's agreement? Can you clarify that? The relationship with the suppliers is not easy. Do you know of these problems, which would be passed on to the cooperatives who would then have to step in for the milk collection? Have you received any complaints about this? If so, how many? Of what nature? Since 2009, there has been a code of conduct with minimum notice periods. Is it still respected or are there abuses? Has the Code of Conduct been evaluated since its introduction? If not, why not? If so, is an evaluation planned and what are the concerns? Do you have any intentions to change the code of conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I remain particularly concerned about the evolution of prices on the milk market. Belgian production has never been so abundant and prices are at their lowest level. This is demonstrated by the fact that Belgian production increased by more than 18% between the first quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. The agreement with Ireland is 33%. The agreement between the partners in the chain talks ended at the end of March after six months. It cannot be renewed because the European Competition Authority had stated before the implementation of the agreement that it had to be limited in time. It's a private agreement. Therefore, the government is not directly involved, even though we have supported and facilitated the talks. The same applies to the code of conduct signed by the partners in the chain consultation on 20 May 2010. It aims to improve cooperation and dialogue and foster partnerships between the sector actors supporting this code. The recommendations of the Code therefore concern the permanent exchange of information, partnership, mutual respect and transparency in trade relations, with the objective of avoiding irregular price fluctuations, with strict respect for competition rules. This code of course links the signatory parties, of which the federation of the Comeos wholesale distribution is part. This is a voluntary initiative of the sector. As you know, prices are free, determined according to the situation of supply and demand on the market and negotiated between private actors. I cannot intervene directly in the mechanisms, given the Belgian and European competition rules. The ABS, the General Farmers' Syndicate, has informed me directly about the situation and says that negotiations are under way with the distribution sector. I very much hope that this dialogue will lead to a positive outcome. The large-scale distribution initiative would go against the spirit and letter of the code of conduct. This would create the risk that one of the recommendations would be called into question if buyers and suppliers unilaterally imposed changes to the contract terms. In view of the critical economic and financial context of the milk sector, a new demand for price reductions at dairy level, if confirmed, would have disastrous economic consequences, and I strongly regret this. Because agriculture is a fully integrated policy at European level, I remain fully ready in this respect. I believe that the European Union should grant compensation to producers in order to reduce their production temporarily and in consultation with producer organisations. I would like to express the Belgian position once again strongly at the next European Agriculture Council which will take place on 17 May 2016. In addition, together with my colleague Stéphane Le Foll, I asked for the mobilisation of the European Parliament to discuss the activation of Rule 222 at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on 25 May 2016. I want changes. The current situation is dramatic and cannot last forever. This case is a priority for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u11	Minister, I agree with your conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u12	Minister, I also agree with the conclusions. The answer we are getting here is, of course, not hopeful. I do believe it's an honest answer. We can be satisfied that there is a chain discussion. It's worked well for years. It is a unique system in which all stakeholders themselves sit around the table. The government should not interfere but should facilitate matters. However, it is now a pity to note that the agricultural organizations have been told that the agreements made are not being complied with. One is in a very weak position. The question is what we are doing about it. It is not obvious to act as a government in this, but I think we should join forces. It does indeed take place mainly at European level. That is why I can only support your strong voice at European level in addressing this problem. We look forward to what you will announce there on 17 May. We will, of course, ask follow-up questions about this. It is not five to twelve, it is already five to twelve for the agricultural sector. There really must be action because otherwise this will cause drama. That is what we must try to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the agricultural organizations GBS and Boerenbond were angry, and I must say that in the past, because our questions have already been somewhat dated in France, because that country did not want to accept the Belgian border farmers' application for direct European aid to hectares in France. France argued that these farmers did not have a French address for service and referred to Article 4 of the European Regulation, which regulates direct aid. That Article states that a holding should be considered as a single set of production units, including the land within the same Member State. The agricultural organisations do not agree with this, and that is also logical, because the article does not refer to the necessary presence of farm buildings, because the holding includes the whole of production units, including the land within the same state, let alone the localisation of a farm seat. It is therefore not possible to derogate from the law of Regulation 1037/2013 on the basis of nationality or address for service. According to the agricultural organisations, the division of a border holding into a holding in one Member State and a holding in another Member State is actually purely administrative and necessary, because implementation lies with national administrations. The fact that there was discrimination on the basis of an address for service therefore means that there is a measure which hinders the free movement of establishment, which is, in fact, clearly contrary to European law. In the meantime, Minister, you have successfully intervened after consulting your French colleague, Stéphane Le Foll, so that this has been corrected. That is why I am making some adjustments to my question. Is this subject still on the European agricultural agenda? I think we should avoid such incidents. We must ensure that our farmers do not run the risk of being faced with this again. I also think that we should try to avoid these things in the future. My question is therefore how we will deal with this in order to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the agricultural sector is in the midst of a crisis. The questions that have just been asked demonstrate this. I am sure that you are well aware of the problem and that, on a daily basis, you are trying to find solutions. But a problem has once again arisen in this difficult context. It seems that the French administration has handed over a layer for cross-border farmers, that is to say Belgian farmers who have land in France. Many of them cross the border with their tractors. In fact, the opposite is also true: many French farmers operate Belgian land. And they receive CAP aid from Wallonia and Flanders for the land they operate in our territory. For example, Belgian cross-border farmers have learned that they will no longer benefit from the CAP aid from France, as the administration has apparently found a flaw: in fact, they would have to be domiciled in France in order to obtain these aid from the French envelope. This is a rather unpleasant situation that many of our farmers must face. Minister, have you been aware of this situation? What steps are you taking with the regional ministers of agriculture with regard to France? What are the possible remedies? This problem, if it has arisen for Belgian farmers operating in France, is likely to occur throughout the European Union. Will the matter be discussed in the Council of European Ministers of Agriculture? Pending a solution, what can Belgian cross-border farmers expect as temporary aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier has already been properly opened and the dossier has already been dealt with. I am therefore going to confine myself to those questions which have not yet been asked, and for the rest I agree with the concerns and questions raised by my fellow Members. Are there other similar problems specific to border farmers? We now know about one problem, but perhaps there are others that we should look at. If so, which ones are they? Have you received any complaints from the border farmers themselves? How much and what specific? I also agree with the questions put by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u16	In mid-April, the French administration of the Northern Department had sent a letter to Belgian farmers whose holding was not dominated in France. It stated that they would no longer benefit from CAP support for their parcels, located near our neighbours. After asking for help from our Belgian border farmers, I immediately wrote to my French colleague on 18 April 2016 to ask for his intervention in the search for a solution. Moreover, on 22 April I contacted my colleague on the telephone with whom I have a good understanding. During that phone call, Stéphane Le Foll personally guaranteed me that there would be a favourable outcome in this difficult dossier. Moreover, on 3 May I received the written confirmation by letter. The obligation to be domiciled in France to receive aid from the CAP – including last year's aid – has been removed, my counterpart told me by this letter of 3 May. Of course, I am particularly pleased that my counterpart agreed to take up this matter quickly and that a favourable outcome could be reached. This is an important decision and good news, especially in the very difficult context of the agricultural sector. I have not heard of any other problems faced by cross-border farmers, but of course I am at their disposal. On the other hand, I have received no indication that new decisions of this nature would be made. If there were to be any, I think that the annulment of the decision taken by the French departmental administration of the North would give us an argument complementing various legal aspects, which would allow us to react if necessary. However, there is nothing to suggest that this could happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u17	Mr President, Minister, that is very good news for our farmers in the border region at this time of crisis. We are always talking about pigs and milk, but cereal prices have also been in free fall since New Year's Eve. In any case, this is not how we see our European Union. For us, it can only work if the rules of the game are the same for all countries. We are just trying to stimulate investment abroad, and this seemed more like a deterrent strategy. I want to thank you very much for your quick intervention, for your interaction. I hope that you will continue to monitor this, so that we do not have to go through this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u18	Mr Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer and for the steps you have taken to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible. I think it's going in the right direction. I count on you, of course, to ensure that all decisions and letters sent are followed by results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u19	Minister, I can only thank you for your swift and firm action. You quickly came up with a solution. Dialogue is still a way of finding good solutions. That could be a lesson for other consultative structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u20	Mr President, I propose to send the official letter from Mr Le Foll received on 3 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u21	Yes, to the secretariat, in this way it will be forwarded to all members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u22	Minister, recently, a survey by Beci and Look & Fin, published in the press on 27 April, reiterates the difficulty of SMEs in accessing bank credit. A quarter of small and medium-sized enterprises believe that lack of bank financing is a barrier to their development. In detail, the survey interviewed 183 SMEs from all sectors except Horeca. For six out of ten SMEs, it has become more difficult to obtain a loan since the 2008 financial crisis. At issue - still the traditional causes - are the guarantees requested by banks, especially for start-ups. One third, or 35 per cent of refusals, are motivated by a lack of guarantees. As a result, more and more companies, like 48% of respondents, are turning to other forms of financing, such as investment funds (23% of respondents), self-financing (20%) and crowdfunding and crowdlending, which now account for 8% of SMEs' sources of financing. Crowdfunding is therefore gaining ground, but Belgium lags behind Britain, the Netherlands and France, as Look & Fin indicates, whose crowdfunding is the specialty. The majority of firms surveyed (55%) do not know the terms crowdlending or participative lending and only 8% have already used crowdlending or crowdfunding. Finally, the survey sponsors point out that many SMEs cannot benefit from tax incentives provided for in the tax shelter for start-ups, which came into force last year because it is only for companies that have existed for up to 4 years. After this observation, which I would call disappointing on crowdfunding in Belgium, I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. What do you intend to do to address this lack of awareness of participatory financing systems within our SMEs? I know you're currently reviewing your SME tax shelter project. Do you intend to extend the terms of use of the business tax shelter to include businesses that exceed four years of existence? In addition, last year the Ecolo-Groen Group tabled a bill that extended the SME tax shelter to crowdfunding platforms called "rewards", i.e. those that make it possible not to become directly shareholder, by taking equity, but to invest in a company and have non-financial returns. One can think of beer bins, like a micro-brewery which has had some success in Brussels and which has financed itself through it. It could also be a part of the production of mushrooms, which is grown on coffee marc, as a return on investments. This category of entrepreneurs is not affected by the tax shelter and we would like it to be. Finally, more generally, what measures are you planning to support SMEs in their search for financing from banks and public banks in particular? I'm obviously thinking of Belfius. What is being put in place to ensure that the attention of these public banks is fully targeted at SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u23	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I would like to draw your attention to some of the elements of the following answer to Mr Friart's question, which makes certain points concerning the statement of funding. But you are right: Article 145/26 of the Income Tax Code, as introduced by the August 2015 Program Law, introduces a tax reduction for investments made with start-up SMEs, i.e. less than 48 months. In fact, from the outset, the tax reduction is applied through four channels. It applies in the context of a direct participation in the capital of eligible companies, an investment in shares or loans made through a crowdfunding platform and an investment in a starter fund which in turn invests in eligible companies. Currently, only the direct investment in the capital of eligible companies results in the tax reduction, but the entire mechanism was originally planned as early as summer 2015. The status of crowdfunding platforms and starter funds required a series of consultations with FSMA, technical studies, etc. The text is being finalized. At the initiative of my colleague Van Overtveldt and in consultation with me, these texts will be submitted shortly to the Council of Ministers. The implementation of these statutes in the various forms (crowdfunding platforms, starter funds, direct investment or vehicles which are modalities of the platforms I have just mentioned) will allow the tax reduction provided for in Article 45/26 to be fully applied. As you know, it is not a small one, since it is 45% if we speak of TPE, 30% of the tax reduction for natural persons, up to EUR 100 000 per person for the investment made and up to EUR 250 000 maximum per company. The implementation of the statutes in question is a priority so that the complete scheme can be applied since from the moment when the legal and regulatory framework is complete, applicants (platforms, starter funds) wishing to benefit from an authorisation will then seek their recognition as such through the FSMA. On the occasion of the establishment of these statutes, I intend to carry out extensive information and awareness-raising work. I've already started by the way. I was still in Malonne last night. This awareness is aimed at SMEs and the public at large at these alternative forms of financing, so that everyone (general public, SMEs, stakeholders or others) can feel concerned and that these schemes can be widely used. For the four-year period, we have targeted the group for which access to credit is generally the most difficult, i.e. start-ups and especially in certain sectors. We know that in Belgium we have a rate of entrepreneurship and start-ups too low compared to a number of countries around us, hence the fact that we see these young businesses in particular. I am aware that the issue of financing the growth of enterprises over 48 months of age also arises. In this context of business growth, it can already be assumed that, having successfully taken their first steps, their access to credit through a number of traditional financings is a little less difficult than it is for all young companies, whether it is through banking proposals, platforms or other elements for the mobilisation of funds, in particular from business angels or other investment partners. I would add that it is planned to assess and monitor, in a very close and transparent manner with the parliament, the actors, Febelfin and all those who are interested in this matter, our system of tax shelter young companies, tax shelter starter. In assessing these measures, we will be able, if necessary, to continue our reflections. I have some ideas on this, but we must first assess the assessment of the current provision and its budgetary impact. I draw attention to the fact that, regardless of this tax shelter, reward crowdfunding continues to exist autonomously. This type of crowdfunding is neither regulated nor subject to the new statutes that have just been put in place. To the extent that this is not an investment as such, it does not fall within the scope of financial regulation and is not covered by article 145 of the Income Tax Code. Having said that, I remain very attentive to these new ways of social and entrepreneurial participation and am listening to the reflections in this regard. With regard to access to bank financing, I would like to confirm that we are currently evaluating the law of 21 December 2013 concerning access to credit especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to some statistical elements delivered to us by the National Bank of Belgium, it should be noted that between June 2014 and June 2015, the volume of bank loans granted to small and medium-sized enterprises increased by 1.19% and 2.24% respectively. On the basis of the same figures, it appears that 77% of the total outstanding appropriations go to SMEs. Febelfin's figures on the quarterly credit barometer for enterprises show that in the second quarter of 2015, the level of refusal of credit applications by SMEs reached its lowest level since 2009: 86% of credit applications were therefore fully or significantly approved. I therefore note that the credit situation for SMEs and the confidence of SMEs in the banking sector have changed positively since the crisis. However, I believe that the evaluation of the December 2013 law is an excellent time to measure each of these aspects and, if necessary, take further steps in this balance between perfectly legitimate banking concerns and entrepreneurial concerns and SMEs that are equally so. With regard to evaluation, I have here all the methodological details that I would like to make available to you. The tax shelter, the assessment of the classical law, the mobilisation and the information, I think that with this we will have made good progress but everything will be subject, as far as the tax shelter is concerned, to evaluation and perhaps adaptation with regard to the growth of enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for this long and detailed answer which does respond to various points which I proposed to you. I would like to highlight two points. The first, for which we may be able to have the debate again at the time of the assessment of tax shelter, in relation to the new forms of entrepreneurship, which are indeed more societal, more focused on social, environmental or other added value, and which generally finance themselves towards platform reward, as you mentioned. But it is really a whole sector in its own right that is actually structured in this way, and today, the text as it stands, does not take them into account for everything that is tax shelter. But we'll get back to it. I take note and I imagine that you will send me the figures on everything that is access to bank credit for SMEs, which is improving and that is so much better. Now, I'm staying a little on my hunger. We believe that Belfius as a public tool could perhaps do more, be an even stronger investment tool vis-à-vis SMEs which, as you know, you have said recently, as we also know, are the basic fabric of our economy. And so, right now, I think there's still a way to do better. We will continue to pay attention to this aspect as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u25	Mr President, Minister, according to the latest SAFE (Survey on the access to finance of enterprises) survey of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which covered the period 2015-2017, 62% of companies have a positive outlook for this period. This is twice as much as in the period 2012-2014 for which there were 32% positive prospects. The survey also reveals that 45% of companies saw an increase in their revenues in the course of 2015. It should be noted, however, that companies still face recurring problems such as the need for skilled labour. We live this every day in our businesses. Moreover, according to a KBC study, it also seems that family businesses are increasingly attracting investors. They inspire confidence and have higher incomes than large euro area companies. It is pleasant to see that these family SMEs, showcases of our economy but also of our heritage, continue to attract both customers and investors. Minister, can you confirm these figures? Do they corroborate your analysis of the development of Belgian family businesses? Can we go further in supporting these enterprises? What measures can be put in place to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u26	Mr President, I have also read the figures published by the SAFE survey commissioned by the European Commission and the ECB. I must say that I particularly welcome the positive development of the parameters examined by the Commission. As you have noted, it is clear that the Belgian respondents considered that access to financing was improving, even qualifying it as "the least crucial problem" they could face. Of course, it is necessary to grade according to the sector or age of the enterprise. This positive trend can also be seen in the figures for bank financing of enterprises, particularly with regard to the volume of loans granted to SMEs. I am pleased to note that the confidence of SMEs in the banking sector and, more generally, in the economic outlook, has changed positively since the crisis. To be regularly invited to events organized by banking organizations established in our country, I must point out that their proposals to the business world are offensive. This demonstrates their willingness to support economic activity. As you have pointed out, and I recognise your expertise here, I believe that supporting SMEs, particularly family businesses, requires the implementation of a number of specific approaches. I am not going to address today the issue of social security contributions and labour, which I have already had the opportunity to address. With regard to the introduction of this SME tax shelter, which introduces a tax reduction for investments made with start-up SMEs under four years of age, I believe that we have taken a strong step which affects in particular family businesses or the creation of projects supported by the friendly and family environment. This strong measure also creates the possibility of support, through this double deduction to the personal tax of 45 % and 30 % of the contribution made, in the case of a TPE or an SME. Its aim is to mobilise resources not only towards the business world, but also through the organisation, via platforms, through funds and via products already offered by certain players in the sector, including Investsud. This is an appropriate response, which brings together the mobilization of private resources. It is also a positive presence in the company's structures, at the general meeting or in the board of directors, thus adding the added value of an expertise and a positive presence in the company's structures. The second part we are working on financing concerns the evaluation of the law of 21 December 2013 on business financing. It's a job that we do with the utmost seriousness. We question the banking sector, SMEs through a very large survey. We will have all the statistical elements on the different methods of financing. This vast exercise, already foreseen in the law of December 2013 and which we are carrying out under this law, should lead to reflections, in particular on the financing of companies, the smallest of them, but also of companies with a family structure. I am also thinking of new rules concerning the separation of private and professional assets and other provisions of this nature. On the other hand, as far as SME financing is concerned, the most appropriate methods of financing at the different stages of the development of these enterprises are also the subject of a global review by my teams. In this context, we have put on the table a number of avenues studied with regard to the different modes of financing, those involving participation in capital or debt financing, whether banking or not. Alternative modalities such as factoring, for example, or methods of financing for companies intending to internationalise their activities are also envisaged. This aspect of financing the internationalisation of enterprises and their growth is of particular interest to me. Finally, with regard to corporate structures, a reform of the Corporate Code is currently under consideration by the Minister of Justice. The aim of this reform is to simplify the different types of social structures that are possible today, as well as certain rules that apply to them. These simplifications should also offer more flexibility in the organisation and financial management of family businesses. As you can see, we have a lot to do with SMEs: their financing, the tax shelter, its monitoring, the evaluation of the December 2013 law, the new financing elements, the financing element of internationalisation, the reform of the Company Code, led by Minister Koen Geens, and a number of other issues that I will discuss with you at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-10-54-commissie-ic410x.u27	Minister, thank you for this answer, which is primarily about business financing. It is true that this is something extremely important. You're talking about trust between the company and the bank. As you say, we feel that this confidence has been recovering for a few months. Since the establishment of the new government, all the measures that have been taken allow this good transit between the bank and the company again. It is essential if our businesses are to grow. You mentioned the tax shelter. One of the measures that follows and which allows the opening of a company's general meeting or board of directors is very important because an SME still needs this vision from outside. Unfortunately, a whole series of SMEs are still too sluggish in this regard, but all those who have had the opportunity to open their CA benefit and that is good. It is a plus in management and even in day-to-day management. You were talking about the financing law. If it can play on internationalisation, it is important because we are still an exporting country, Flanders more than Wallonia. Maybe we could do even more in Wallonia. You have also just raised all the simplifications envisaged at the level of the structures of our companies. It will also be a good thing because it will be an asset in the hands of our entrepreneurs. Thank you, Minister. I know we'll still have a lot of good news with you in the coming months.
