ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u1	Questions Nos 9395, 9396 and 10579 by Mrs Claerhout have been converted into written questions. Mr Delannois has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u2	Mr Minister, recently in Tournai, a reflection has been made on the possible development of a land belonging to the army located at the Luchet d'Antoing. A working group was launched by various associations in the neighbourhood in order to rethink this area. A space which, I remind you, has been unoccupied for years and brings no added value to the neighbourhood. The desire of the inhabitants is really to revitalize the area through, among other things, a development of this land that would follow a whole series of objectives. The project would indeed pursue a social and ecological goal by setting up a meeting area between the residents through the creation of a whole series of infrastructures creating links. I am thinking, for example, of setting up a community garden, a multi-sport field, playgrounds for children. On the other hand, I find that this will also bring a significant aesthetic seal to this place which for the time being is sorely lacking. Minister, the working group sent a complete dossier to the Ministry of Defence in mid-March expressing their wish to see this project completed by obtaining a concession of the land by the army. In its response, the Department of Defence explained that it had forwarded the site to the Federal Acquisition Committee of the FPS Finances to arrange a sale. He added that the Régie des Bâtiments had expressed some time ago its interest in the land. Apparently, a written confirmation was made by the Régie des Bâtiments regarding the acquisition of this site. This would be foreseen in their 2016 investment programme and a file to get the necessary agreements is on the way. My questions are as follows: Is it possible for a solution to be found in order to carry out the project of the residents of the Luchet district of Antoing successfully, knowing that this land has been unoccupied for years? If not, what is the land for? Can you give me more details?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u3	Mr Delannois, it is difficult to answer your question at the moment. The questions must first be analysed, depending on the development of the project. The question is a little premature, we are conducting an analysis. While this site represents a real opportunity for the federal state to bring together the services of the FPS Justice and perhaps other federal services, this project is still in an embryonic state today, given the restructuring announced by Minister Geens at the beginning of 2015, which are still in progress within the judicial districts and somewhat suspend decisions on the future of the institutions of Tournaise. The purchase of this defence field is provided for in the 2016 investment budgets of the Régie des Bâtiments. So we're examining with Justice what his plans are. As you know, we work for our clients within the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u4	I'm having a little trouble understanding because, in fact, the land belongs to the army. The Régie takes a purchase option on this field and at the same time, whenever I ask your colleague Mr Geens a question, he tells me that he has a masterplan, etc. in relation to a future courthouse in Tournai. So the question is relatively simple: it means that one would risk going to the Luchet d'Antoing. But when I ask your colleague, he says no. I therefore think that the Régie is acquiring land, for which it will never go. I fear that it is not in the intention to restore the courthouse of Tournai, nor to build a new one. Every time I asked a question, I understood that we would not necessarily have a new one. We were talking more and more about the restoration of the current building. Will there be one tomorrow? I don't know. I was a little afraid of the answer. And I think that, indeed, at the moment, you've bought land without knowing very well what you're going to do with it. What I fear is that tomorrow there will be no more courthouses in Tournai. I also hope that we are not selling family jewelry at the army level, which I fear too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u5	Questions No 10749 by Mr Emir Kir and No 11138 by Mr Koenraad Degroote are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u6	Deputy Prime Minister, a constituent part of the real estate heritage of the Régie des Bâtiments, the Dynastie building, located on the Esplanade du Mont des Arts, is one of the most exemplary places in the cultural life of our country. For most of us, the memory of the monumental tea house and the very colorful information center that had been installed there, respectively, during the Europalia China and Brazil exhibitions, is still alive. Today, events open to the general public continue to take place on an ad hoc basis. But beyond that, the question of the allocation of the building, not in an episodic way, but in the long term, arises. In this regard, several scripts have already been mentioned in the media in recent years, including the establishment of the Gillion-Crowet or the Chinese cultural centre, which has finally taken its neighbourhoods elsewhere in the capital. In view of the architectural quality of this building, as well as its geographical position, it is undeniable that it has many advantages. It could thus be imagined that it would be devoted to the reception of a new museum, created in synergy with the private sector, or to that of a public body looking for specific premises. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell me whether the allocation of the Dynasty building is currently being considered in the context of a long-term project? If so, can you tell me whether some of the leads are favoured by the government and, therefore, which ones? Have you had any requests from private actors or other members of the federal government regarding the use of these sites? If so, could you provide us with the content and answers that have been provided to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u7	Mr Calomne, the agreement in principle of the Council of Ministers will soon be requested in order to have a master plan drawn up for several scientific institutions, including the Dynasty building. The objective is to seek an allocation of the latter within the scientific and/or cultural framework. I've already explained it before. Although the masterplan still needs to be approved by the government, some ideas are already circulating. For example, for the ground floor, the large hall is being considered as a dynamic multimedia access portal where all federal scientific institutions can demonstrate their knowledge and skills. Visitors will be encouraged to visit museums. In this way, they will be able to maintain and increase their own income and operations. In addition, this lobby can house various events during closing hours. The floors will be able to host the Belgian Space Agency. To do so, a complete renovation is required. Then, the Dynasty building, with its impressive entrance to the Mont des Arts, is becoming increasingly popular for cultural events. Last month, the Off Course Young Contemporary Art festival was held there. This month, it's the turn of the KunstenFestivaldesArts with a dance show. In August, the Cultural Forum will be held in collaboration with the Square. In September, the building will host VRT-Radio 1. Europalia Indonesia will be organised there from October to January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u8	Minister, I thank you for this very comprehensive response to the long-term assignment of the building, with several scenarios that seem to hold the road and to be relatively precise. In addition, I am pleased that, pending these long-term projects and the agreement in principle of the Council of Ministers, which is expected to take place quickly, you granted this building different, more temporary assignments. In connection with what you said, it is important that these public buildings be used and that there be an activity, whether cultural, social or economic, pending a longer-term assignment project. This makes it possible to live this building. This is important in terms of public management. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you a small supplementary question. Do you have any idea what agreement should be reached at the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u9	Mr Calomne, I cannot comment on an agreement but the draft will be presented on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u10	Question No 11377 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u11	Mr. President, Namur is a beautiful city in which we have to build a new courthouse. But he doesn't stop waiting. Minister, last March I asked you a written question about this. When I read the answer that came to me a few weeks later, I was astonished by the figures you provide regarding the education costs incurred by the Régie des Bâtiments in the project. Indeed, you indicate that "the total amount of the fees accepted by the Council of Ministers amounts to €8,691,572.76 VAT included. After negotiation with the study office, the study costs for the Régie under this project will be €4,940,000 VAT included, including the cost of adapting the project costed at €527,000 VAT included, for studies". We haven't laid the first stone yet. If the construction of the new courthouse in Namur is a necessity given the deplorable working conditions in the current palace, this should not prevent us from questioning the extent of the study costs incurred. Minister, I will partly accept a written answer because the question is complex. Do you confirm the amounts mentioned in your answer to my previous question? Isn't there a typo? Can you give me the details by mail? Can you communicate to me by mail the successful tenderers, the method of awarding contracts and the justifications on the successful claimants? How do you explain these very high amounts? What will be the impact of these amounts on the future of the case? Can you tell me the total cost of the construction of the new budgeted palace to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u12	Mr Gilkinet, I confirm the amounts mentioned. Here are the mail-by-post details. Amounts already paid, outline phase, preliminary project and town planning permit: EUR 4 304 100 VAT included. Amendment No 3 and amendment 1 (demolition and ovoid displacement): EUR 108,900 VAT included. Amendment No 3 and amendment 2 (adaptation of plans and studies): EUR 527 000 VAT included. Total fees of the AUPa study office charged by the Régie des Bâtiments: €4,940,000 VAT included. Total fees of the AUPa study office to be borne by the promoter: €3,751,000 VAT included. Following a restricted invitation to tender, the service contract was awarded to the temporary company of the study offices AUPa, CERAU, Atelier de Genval, BG Group Infra and TI Engineering, having taken the name ADP2, whose head office is in Verviers. The overall contract governing this study was notified in September 2008. The award decision is annexed to this reply. We'll let you know. How I explain these very high amounts: the amount of fees was fixed at the rate of 9.41 % when the service contract was awarded in 2008. This percentage was increased by 1.38% at the 2014 Council of Ministers to take into account the monitoring of the execution of the construction site not planned at the base. This percentage is normal for an overall architectural and engineering study service, knowing that an architecture service alone is already in the order of 8% of the amount of work. The impact of this amount on the file has been identical and known for several years. I refer to meetings of the Council of Ministers in 2015 and 2014. The total cost of construction works is estimated at €66,571,990.60 excluding VAT, i.e. €80,552,108.63 including VAT. This amount includes the cost of first installation work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u13	Minister, I have received the award decision and thank you for that. I confirm my astonishment at the level of the costs already incurred on work that has not yet begun. I think we have the responsibility, at all levels of the state, to spend the public money properly. I hope you will be attentive, as well as the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Wit's 11425 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u15	Mr President, "Three Boudins" is the name of a street in Mons, rue des Trois Boudins. This is a FPS Finance building. This building is located on the streets of the Three Boudins and the Arbalestriers; it is a double building. As part of the sale and lease back operations, the State, thus the Régie des Bâtiments, sold this building in 2003 to a private company. This sale can be found in the 2005 federal law, where it is found that Delaware BELGOV (DE) QRS 15-66, Inc.'s state-law company is the new owner and acquired it for the €9,410,000 price. Do you confirm the existence of an 18-year lease, which logically expired in 2021, between BELGOV (DE) QRS 15-66, Inc., Delaware, and Régie des Bâtiments? What is the monthly or annual rent paid by the public authorities for the rental of the building in 2016? What is the total amount paid by the public authorities for this building from 2003 to the present, according to the following breakdown: rents, the real estate discount, if it is borne by the tenant, the other expenses considered to be the tenant's – we know that in this type of lease, many charges are borne by the tenant and not by the owner – and the other possible amounts? At a time when Panama Papers, after other similar cases, such as the numerous Leaks, show the need for a proactive fight against tax havens, do you not consider it problematic that the tax office be housed in a building owned by a company with its headquarters in Delaware, a notorious tax haven? Is the Régie des Bâtiments subject to a code of conduct prohibiting it from entering into agreements with natural or legal persons posing potential ethical problems, and I am not talking about legal problems, for example through the use of tax havens? If not, do you not find it appropriate to establish such a code?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u16	The fourth question is important: is there a relationship with Panama Papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u17	Mr Van Hees, I first confirm the existence of an 18-year lease. We pay 1,292,580 euros annually for 11,365 square meters. I'm going to the ventilation. The rent is 15,218,636 euros. The real estate discount is 1,601,010 euros. There are no other charges. With regard to Panama Papers, it is primarily the responsibility of the FPS Finances to exercise control over the declarations of companies wherever they are. It is impossible for the Régie des Bâtiments to carry out a prior tax check on a lessor who wishes to rent him property. With regard to the code, on 16 May 2014, the Régie des Bâtiments signed a charter of sustainable cooperation with the professional federations of construction and real estate. It states: "We deal with ourselves with honesty, loyalty and respect. We operate our bidding and procurement activities in accordance with the highest ethical and professional standards." The professional federations have made the following commitment: "We undertake to disseminate this Charter as widely as possible and to encourage our employees and members to respect and enforce the content of this Charter by their subcontractors, service providers and suppliers. We consider it important that this charter be adopted by the successful tenderers and that they attach a signed copy to their application and/or offer for contracts of the Régie des Bâtiments." The charter is published on the website of the Régie des Bâtiments (buildingsagence.be/integriteit_nl.cfm218). Its respect depends on the goodwill of the successful tenderers of the private sector without the Régie being able to formally demand it. A unilateral code of conduct does not constitute a document that can intervene in contractual relations between the parties. Apart from the possibility of termination provided for in the contract, the Régie des Bâtiments can hardly terminate an existing rental contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u18	Minister, thank you. I understand that the Régie cannot put an end to the contracts under way. However, if the case were to arise, it would also not be able to demand compliance with the Charter. Do I understand you correctly? This means that a company in a tax haven could become a lessor of the FPS Finance or of another federal body. I have a problem with that. In addition, the amount you mention is also problematic. Indeed, the Régie paid almost 17 million euros after about ten years for a building that had been sold at 9 million euros. Privatisation is expensive! Of course, this is not your responsibility, but it calls into question the operations of sale and lease back. I hope that this kind of method will no longer be used too much, but I fear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u19	Comparing the purchase price with the rental amounts is not intellectually very correct. In such a system, the building is maintained. The tenant has an obligation to maintain the building. For buildings under DBFM, at the end of the lease, the building is in the same condition as at the beginning of the lease. If you compare this with the purchase price, regardless of the maintenance obligation, this is not intellectually correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u20	We're not going to argue, but I know this building and I know that the lessor doesn't maintain it, so the building is deteriorating, especially the chassis. I also know that for the Delaware company, it is a very good deal since it invests 9 million and after a decade, it holds 16 million. If it's a good deal for the society in question, it's not necessarily a good deal for the state because you can't have two winners unless you show some intellectual dishonesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u21	Minister, the officials who occupy the administrative city in Charleroi are more than 400. They ask themselves questions and are concerned about the fate of the building they occupy today and its management. Indeed, they heard that as part of the modernization of the city of Charleroi, it was planned to destroy this administrative city to build new buildings. Not all actors involved in this project are clear. Moreover, the history of this building also raises questions. It was built in the 1980s, according to my information, and a few years later, the building was sold to Sopima as part of the sale and lease back operations. But unlike other transactions of this type, usually concluded with a private owner, in this case the shareholding is entirely public since the federal state, the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissements (SFPI) and the Régie des Bâtiments are the shareholders of Sopima. According to the last annual report of the Sopima, an amendment was concluded with the Régie which extended the rental of the administrative city of Charleroi for four years from 1 January 2012, i.e. until the end of 2016. However, according to other sources, the Sopima had given up the building to the Régie on 1 January 2016. Minister, do you confirm the plan to destroy the administrative city of Jean Monnet Street in Charleroi? If so, when is destruction planned and what is planned as an alternative to rehousing civil servants in the administrative city? Will this alternative offer the same facilities in terms of parking and access via public transport for civil servants and users? Indeed, many of the FPS Finance buildings have been removed. At the time of filing tax returns, hundreds or even thousands of taxpayers visited the building. Do you confirm the information that the Régie des Bâtiments has returned or will soon become the owner of this building? Why did the Régie des Bâtiments transfer the administrative city to the Sopima once - this decision is not up to you, but I ask you the question - and why, if so, would it become the owner again? What is the meaning of these real estate transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u22	Mr Van Hees, part of this building was built in accordance with the urban and environmental rules in force at the time of its construction. Given this irregularity, it is very likely that the city, in the absence of any evolution in the occupation of this building, will demand its total or partial demolition. A proposal for a new location of the FPS Finance via a contract for the promotion of the works must be submitted before summer 2016 to the Council of Ministers with the aim of relocating the 400 officials of the FPS Finances and meeting all the needs included in the programme of the needs that this client has transmitted to the Régie des Bâtiments. Yes, the Régie des Bâtiments became the owner of this property again as of December 31, 2015. In view of the consolidation of the Sopima in the State's accounts contrary to the objective of its constitution in the 1990s, given the sale of most of the real estate managed by the Sopima in 2006 and the recent supervision of the Sopima by the SFPI, the latter wished, for practical and logical reasons, to transfer the ownership and management of the building from Charleroi to the Régie des Bâtiments on 31 December last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u23	Thank you, Minister, it is indeed short enough time to find a solution for Charleroi's staff, if at least the buildings were to be destroyed quickly. I didn't ask you about that. You don't know if there's a deadline for the destruction of the building? Or will this be done in agreement with the city?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u24	A solution is presented before the summer within the government and consultation with the city is expected to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic419x.u25	Questions Nos 11472 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and 11516 by Mrs Uyttersprot are transformed into written questions.
