ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the social climate is tense again. I would like to make it very clear as far as my party is concerned: there is no question of admitting or admitting the incidents which are rather due to a handful of people on the far right at the end of the trade union demonstration two days ago, nor of admitting the wild strikes which were decided this morning, even if there are some grounds for being heard by a militant base in the rail transport sector. On these issues, we are clear, we are in favour of respect for law and order. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that this government is reluctant to open up and encourage the way for real negotiations between the social partners. This great achievement of social peace in our country has meant that, in this country, we have sometimes been able to overcome very difficult times, whenever governments have taken the measure of the need to encourage consultation between the social partners. Several governments took care of this because they knew it was a necessary step to find balanced solutions that were accepted by all the social partners. The debate on work flexibility is a debate that deserves to be conducted. This is a debate where substantial progress must be made, but not according to the government method which imposes a framework and leaves no room for manoeuvre for the social partners. I heard Mr Peeters say that he was going to receive the social partners on his proposals again or finally. I heard that he was going to try to better explain the proposals of his reform adopted by the government. But I very precisely ask two questions. What is the real leeway that the government gives the social partners to discuss the proposed measures? Firstly, does the government accept that the social partners can reassess the annual basis on which 38 hours of work are calculated per week? Do you give the social partners room for manoeuvre in this negotiation? Second, does the government agree to review the rule that the time allowed to employers to notify staff of changes in schedules may be longer or wider than the 24 hours envisaged? In other words, what is the real room for manoeuvre that you give the social partners in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u3	Prime Minister, anger is deep in the population, whether in Brussels, Wallonia or Flanders. I have noted that the government is no longer reaching a majority in the latest polls. People in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia feel a certain anger and the feeling that it is no longer possible to do so. Where does our society go? Where does this government want to go? He doesn't listen to us anymore. There are no more negotiations. We no longer listen to the social partners. We don't listen to people anymore. We're going as if we don't have to take anything into account. I will finish, Mr Verherstraeten; you will have the floor later. I see that in the polls, we even asked what people thought about your measurements. What do the citizens think of the tax shift? Seven percent support the tax shift. There's no majority for the Peters Act, people feel something's not right. With regard to the Peters Act, I was the day before yesterday at the demonstration in which eighty thousand people participated. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u4	You'd better come too! I've heard that people want to stay in charge of their own lives. We don't want this flexibilization of our lives. Prime Minister Kris Peeters, you say you were misunderstood. You really are the government of the misunderstood! Every time, it's like, "We don't get it." People have understood very well what it's about. No one said the weekly work was going to be 45 hours. No one said that. But I'm asking you the question. Yes or no, after the Peeters Act, will there be weeks during the year where you will have to work up to 45 hours? Can right-wing parliamentarians answer this question by yes or no? I say it loud and clear, with the Peeters Act, there will be weeks when people will have to work 45 hours. I come to the second point, the pot of 100 overtime: 2 hours a week that are negotiable directly with individual work. Yes or no, will this 100-hour pot lead to a linear increase in working hours of 2 hours per week? This is what people want to know and they have the right to know the truth. Finally, Prime Minister, for the time being, in many sectors there is a total lack of social consultation. Will you, yes or no, restore the framework for a little bit of oxygen to our social democracy or will you continue to stifle our society, polarize our society, which guarantees a scandalous image of Belgium outside?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, more than sixty thousand workers from the north, south and centre of the country have expressed dissatisfaction with your policy – and these are police figures. Workers in this country do not want social regression. They say no to excessive flexibility, the dismantling of public services and the pension at the age of 67. Like us, they believe that fairer solutions are possible in terms of taxation, career planning, work time allocation and purchasing power. In the face of this large-scale new mobilization, your government is deaf ears and wants to hear nothing. You're telling us the government is going to keep its course. In short, "circulate, it's all right!" But can we say that everything goes well when the prison guards have been on strike for a month, the representatives of the justice system are publicly out of their reserve, that Eurostat observes that the employment rate is falling, that the growth is below the European average, that the increase in excise duties is a flop, that the FPS Finance – as my colleague Ahmed Laaouej denounces it – is on its knees, that the railwaymen are at the end, that the social dumping continues to wreak havoc and that the social concertation is damaged? Prime Minister, it's time... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u6	Go on, Mr. Daerden!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, it is time – as L'Echo wrote yesterday – "to admit his mistakes and correct the shot." My question will be simple: how will you restore social peace, so necessary for any reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, our group members travel a lot by train. It is clear that we are not fans of a bid to strike. Those who can count on our support 100% are the eighty thousand compatriots, both Dutch and French, who went through the streets of our capital on Tuesday with a plea for reform, to change a number of things, for justice, even more so, with a broad call for justice. Last week there was a call from the CEO, today eighty thousand people travel the streets. Do you understand now? Have you understood the question of ambition, the question of justice? Prime Minister, the signals are double. Yesterday, the day after so many people entered the streets, your majority submitted a budget adjustment in Parliament, with more money being sought from those who are struggling or who are ill than fraudsters and the greatest abilities. The signals are diffuse. On the one hand, we notice that Minister Van Overtveldt at European level is obstructing and sabotaging an approach to tax evasion. On the other hand, and perhaps that is the good news, we read that perhaps we can talk about a fair contribution from the largest assets, a corporate tax more tailored to SMEs, fairer and simpler, and even an adjustment of the company car regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that it will be the latter, so that the call for reforms and the call for justice is finally met. I have two questions at this stage, Prime Minister. You know what measures people are angry about. You know they think the nasty Wet-Peters should be off the job. Are you willing to sit around the table again? And most importantly, is there a third tax shift coming now? May we hope that the third time will be a good time and that everyone will make a proper contribution in this country in the future? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u9	Ms Pas asked her questions to the Minister for Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, on Tuesday more than sixty thousand people came to the streets. Those sixty thousand people can count on our support, except for one person. Let me begin by saying that everyone inside and outside these walls condemns any form of violence by protest. Let it be clear that no cowardly act can count on my support. However, this must not blind us to the fact that those 60 000 people did not just go out into the street. Prime Minister, this is yet another signal that citizens do not agree with your unfair policy. On the 38-hour week, I hear Minister Peeters say that people have not understood, and that he will explain it all again. Mr Verherstraeten, I think your Minister is being very derogatory about this group of people. Since when does CD&V stop listening to people? It's precisely because people understand what it's like to be on the streets. Prime Minister, I am also hopeful. I am hopeful because the call for fiscal justice may finally get an answer. I read that CD&V promises again that the great abilities will contribute. For us, a euro is a euro. Income from labour and property income must be taxed equally. Today it isn't. Your tax shift, Prime Minister, has missed its goal. A real tax shift is a shift of the target group that has to pay. All you have done is shift from one tax on people to another. So it's the same people who pay. However, if you really believe that everyone has to contribute, if you want to implement a real tax shift, you will find an ally in us. I have only one question, Prime Minister. Will you support the CD&V's demand to finally introduce fiscal justice? Will you put a concrete proposal on the table and what is the timing of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, there is a great difference between Tuesday's dignified event and the action that is taking place today at SNCB. We are truly outraged at what is happening today at SNCB. No one can approve such a wild strike, so that commuters do not get to work in time and may not be able to pick up their children in time tonight, people who are condemned to be in traffic or take vacation. However, we would not see it anymore. An agreement had been reached between the management and the trade unions. We would first follow the path of social dialogue and only then would action be taken. Those who have themselves concluded the agreement are now breaking the agreements and breaking them flagrantly. This cannot be done, and it cannot be understood, not by travellers, not by commuters, not by us. There's no basis for that. Social agreements concluded must be respected by all parties. This includes the protocol agreement on SNCB. If trade unions and management agree on a procedure that they will follow in the event of a social conflict, then everyone must abide by it. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, after Tuesday's manifestation, it is time for the sense and reasonableness to regain the upper hand, for no more bridges to be blown up and for the consultation to be re-launched. Today, more than ever, we need dialogue and solutions rather than conflicts. Especially in the current period of early economic recovery, we must do everything we can to restore the image of our country. However, what are the benefits of all possible image campaigns if we are faced with actions such as today? Such actions undermine any form of social dialogue and any form of social dialogue. They lead to nothing. Problems are discussed and resolved at the table. Those who think they're trying to resolve conflicts with wild strikes are wandering. However, those who think that they resolve conflicts with unilaterally imposed laws are equally erring. Only dialogue leads to solutions. That is what we learned from the hearings with the experts on the right to strike, but then everyone has to keep to the agreements made. Mr President, I will conclude. We face still difficult decisions, difficult decisions that must lead to more jobs and keep our social protection and pensions affordable. However, they must also spread efforts more equitably. The current government must continue to engage in dialogue, including with the social partners. Prime Minister, what will you do to get everyone around the table again and to restart the dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Vercamer, Mrs Kitir, I can only welcome the fact that you explicitly renounce violence and condemn it. I can only express my appreciation for that. Mr Vercamer, as you say, against what is happening today with the rail strike and against Tuesday's images, there is no image campaign. Those things are indeed bad for all of us. That agents and the chief commissioner are attacked and that images of people with bloody faces on television go around the world internationally, there is no campaign against that. We must condemn such matters at all times. However, we must also ask ourselves why it is argued, why the trade unions are taking action, why strike after strike is organized. The trade unions called for action against the abolition of the 38-hour week, while the 38-hour week was not abolished. Those are the facts. The unions are taking action for more jobs. That's what we're all here for. I note that this government's reforms effectively lead to more jobs. In the private sector, employment is rising, unemployment is falling and job vacancies are highest in ten years. The number of vacancies today is higher than in 2007, the years before the crisis. Those are the facts. The unions also protest against longer working for less purchasing power. Work longer, that's right. We're asking everyone to work longer. The President of this Chamber will also ensure that we contribute to this. We ask that everyone works longer, not for less purchasing power, but for more purchasing power. People working today are already getting better. We must continue to offer that perspective. We know that there are always exceptions to the rule, but overall purchasing power for working people increases. After taxes and even after the increased lifespan, purchasing power increases by 1.3 %. That says not the N-VA, but the National Bank. Purchasing power is increasing. Those are the facts. For the sake of clarity, even those who can't work, it needs to be improved. That's what we're gonna do. Because this government pays out the welfare envelope at 100% instead of 60%, because of the social corrections in the tax shift, Mrs Temmerman, we already have the third increase in living wages at two years' time. Mrs Temmerman, the weakest, the heads of the family, has seen their living wage rise by 800 euros a year in recent years. Eight hundred euros a year extra for the weakest, is that the social policy against which you are protesting? I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to do everything in your power to prevent the country from being held hostage by the dictatorship of the minority, by those who protest against the election results. Prime Minister, what will you do to counter this disinformation, to better highlight the policy of this government, its effects and its achievements, both abroad and inland?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we did indeed have a demonstration on Tuesday and I think we can agree that there were 60,000 people there to argue. However, it is not the first time that people are on the streets when there are reforms in this country. That's what you're doing with this government, you're going through reforms. That's what makes people restless. This has also happened under the previous government. Then eighty thousand people came to the streets, when the Di Rupo government under the leadership of a socialist also took action. What were they on the street for then? They came up against a pay freeze, at half an index jump, against the rising retirement age, against the degressivity of unemployment benefits and against the flexibilisation of the 38-hour week. The latter was already mentioned in the Di Rupo coalition agreement. That's why they came out on the street. Why did we do that in the previous government and why are we doing these reforms now? We do not do that to bully people, we do that because our country needs it to provide jobs in the future, to ensure that the economy is running and to ensure that social security remains strong and can continue to exist. Without jobs there is no social security, pensioners will not have a decent pension, those who are sick and need help will not receive help. That's why we're doing this. We're not doing it to bully people, we're doing it to reform this country and help them. We can do that, too. We read it in the newspaper last week: the labour market has not been so healthy in years. Yesterday in the newspaper it was said that purchasing power is increasing, it is rising despite all the doomsday messages there are. The question remains why people are on the streets. Is that because of Mr Hedebouw's 45-hour week? I haven't seen a single text that would show that there's going to be a 45-hour week. Loss of purchasing power? Do the fact check, that's not right. Rightful taxation? Who's against that? No one's against that. There is, however, one issue that we will continue to oppose and with which you have a hard time: we will never accept that the middle class will again pay the bill with extra taxes. You want to, but we will never accept that. Why should the country be flattened, why should the economy be flattened and why should our image be flattened? Does that help our country? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u15	What it might be about is politics. You're not in the government anymore, but there are other parties in it. That's your problem. So, you'd better cooperate with reform. Mrs Onkelinx, I will give you a fine text in case you become Minister again. I am here to present to you the Di Rupo coalition agreement. Please. [[Mr Lachaert handed over a text to Mrs Onkelinx]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u16	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u17	Please, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u18	Prime Minister, the social climate is very tense. The citizens are nervous. They're worried. The exasperation is deep. If there's a file that crystallizes all the attention, it's the one for the 45-hour workweek. Prime Minister, the debate on modernising working time is a real debate. Yes, reforms in this area are needed. They are even indispensable. However, this is a sensitive and sensitive issue. The dossier required ongoing consultation with the social partners. But your government has decided to act brutally. He decided to proceed with the Hussarde by putting people in front of the fait accompli, after having made his decision in Kern, in the back of the social partners, despite the promises of Minister Peeters. At the Hussard too, he chose a measure proposed by the bosses by rejecting the unions from the back of his hand. In terms of method, you bear a very heavy responsibility. The current blockage is complete! In your turn, you remain deaf to all the signals sent to you by pretending to be right against all, determined that you are to impose your measures without negotiation. The situation is serious. Strikes are organized, but they also have consequences for all those who are subjected to them. I am thinking in particular, today, of the students in examination. The only solution, Prime Minister, is to get out of the current deadlock. For this, it is up to you to send clear signals to the social partners in an attempt to renew the dialogue. On the other hand, we call on the government to reopen the menu on modernising working time more broadly by negotiating rather than imposing flexibility in work, but also by providing for complementary measures, including a measure to improve the balance between family and working life. We have tabled 17 measures with a view to making our contribution in this respect, taking into account the social partners. Prime Minister, when will your government finally put forward concrete actions for the social partners to re-engage in dialogue and break the current deadlock?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, let me make it clear that the current strike movements are not desirable. They give a bad image of our country, they handicap our economy. They have a very serious impact on the people involved - the detainees, their families, travellers, workers or students who were planning to take the train this morning. We must be equally clear on the responsibilities of this situation. I invite you to a little introspection and self-criticism. The persons responsible for this situation are not to be found in the streets, in this Chamber, in any of the regions. They are to be sought in your majority, Prime Minister. What happened was predictable. The first people responsible for this detestable social climate are you, the majority. It is the blind austerity measures that apply to all of our citizens, the index jump, the pension reform. These are the many provocations against the workers and the most fragile of our society, while you are so weak with regard to the great tax fraud. It is above all your lack of project! If at least the sacrifices that were demanded of the workers served for something, for a real project to revive our economy, for the energy autonomy of our country and for a better sharing of working time. None of this, Prime Minister! The question is the same, week after week. I'll give you another chance. What is your project? What are you going to do to mobilise the Regions, the workers, the representatives of the employers' world who gave you a concrete sign? Do something, Prime Minister, and something else than last week. Last week, it was a little more of the same with a little communication. That won't be enough, a little ambition, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to state at the outset that, on behalf of the government, I want to express respect for the concerns and questions of those who, faced with the reforms, express their opinions and convictions. I would also like to reiterate that, for us, the right to strike is an extremely important right. But I would also like to welcome the fact that the majority and part of the opposition, together, have condemned the abuse of the right to strike, which does not respect the freedom to work, the freedom to move and which does not respect the principle that strikes are the last means when conciliation has failed. Finally, and I want to do so with the utmost serenity possible, I want to say on behalf of the majority that it becomes tiresome, day after day, week after week, to hear the same misinformation that was expressed at the beginning of the government's action. I would like to give some examples in relation to that. The purchasing power, the tax shift: for someone who has 1,500 euros (this is a low salary), it has 80 euros in addition each month in 2016. The index jump is 12 euros a month. Look at the gap! Learn to count, Mr. Gilkinet! My second argument concerns the fight against tax fraud. Minister Van Overtveldt's figures are particularly high compared to recent years. This is also a good result and a result of our political choice, the fight against tax fraud. Those are the facts. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, today we use 100 % of the welfare envelope compared with 60% in the previous legislature. We have fully respected the decisions of the social partners on the affection of the welfare envelope. Those are the facts. There is also a spectacular reduction in the number of bankruptcies. Those are the facts. Net business creation: tens of thousands of businesses – 90,000 – have been created. Unemployment has fallen. These are the first results. Of course, not everything is perfect, there are challenges ahead of us and we must continue the work. I repeat this and will continue to do so: we will continue to make decisions, reform, act and give space to social dialogue and social dialogue in order to improve our reforms. Here, too, the facts speak for us. Look with me for the last few months: wellness envelope, salary margin, career ends, Belgocontrol. On a wide range of issues, we are trying to reach agreements. They are widely implemented whenever they respect the budgetary framework, the principles of the government agreement and parliamentary democracy, alongside social democracy, which we also fully respect. I'm going into the labour market. In this respect, we have made a strong commitment. I am pleased that some people, including the opposition, say that it is an important debate and that we must succeed in this challenge. We already have the political will to achieve that goal. What are the facts? The government, with the support of a majority in Parliament, has opted for a number of clear measures. The current government agreement sets out the principle of the annualisation of working time. But that was also in the government agreement of the previous government. The difference is that this was not carried out and implemented under the previous legislature. Mrs Fonck, Mr Maingain, I am replying to you precisely, we wish, together with the social partners, to give the margin. There are a number of principles that are defined and for which we want to consult the social partners and a text will be submitted to the social partners. Minister Peeters explained precisely his methodology, which gives the social partners a very large space to improve the proposals. I hear an employer, slamming fingers, could call his worker tomorrow. These are typically subjects on which we will, of course, discuss with the social partners how to adapt the measures and also, Mrs Fonck, ensure that the balance between working life, the flexibility which is useful for the development of employment and respect for family life is taken into account. I will also tell you that I am proud to lead a government that has proposed, for example, that it be possible in the future, it is very generous, to donate leave to a colleague whose child is seriously ill. This is also a form of solidarity and not just a slogan! I would also like to add that, in the context of modernising the labour market, we also have a strong ambition in terms of training. We believe that investment in this too is important. We have therefore put forward certain orientations with perspectives and hope that positive and thorough consultations will be possible. I conclude, Mr President, with these two obsessions that we have: on the one hand, to succeed in a strategy of economic recovery in order to create employment as a better guarantee for solidarity, to succeed – and it is not simple – to regain serenity in the context of social consultation and, on the other hand, to try to ensure that these dramatic attacks of 22 March and their consequences on the image of the country are taken into account. I am proud that yesterday we managed to agree different governments with different majorities to work together on a strategy aimed at valuing our strengths and talents, highlighting our ability to face together the challenges we face. I appeal to the social partners and the trade unions to be with us around the table to ensure that these commitments can be realized, that this misinformation is stopped, that this counter-truth is stopped, that there is a government with a majority who decides to move forward and to implement a number of reforms. Finally, I conclude by that. I hear a number of calls for some form of regression and conservatism. Mr Raoul Hedebouw, I would like to point that out to you. There is no parliamentary majority in this country for your social regression project!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u21	Prime Minister, week after week, we ask you to create another atmosphere of cooperation in this country. It is surprising to see that the calls, even if they come from professional circles that are close to you, such as the bosses, whose call was mentioned last week, were in your home a refusal to take into consideration which tends to negate the very evidence. Not only are you the greatest misunderstood, but all citizens should have long known that their purchasing power had increased. Nothing like that! The polls show that! The reality shows it! The reality! The reality regarding the purchasing power of citizens is that it does not increase. Indices of consumption and final consumption expenditure of households are retracting in this country. The clues are given to us. [[Applause]] The growth rate of GDP in Belgium is lower than the average for the European Union and even the euro area, proof if it is that the recovery is not on track as in the other countries. It is not enough to give trends specific to Belgium. It is necessary to give comparative trends with the European Union averages, and on more than one index you are below the European average. I remember an MR slogan: "Let's put Belgium and Wallonia above the average European indices". Today, you are far from it, for many European indices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u22	Prime Minister, in your opinion, there is no majority for a regression. I note that there is no majority in the population to work up to 67 years. That wasn't even part of your election program. There is no majority in favour of index jump. It was also not included in your electoral program. You didn't tell anyone you were going to withdraw $3 billion from SNCB. No one had taken up this proposal in their programme. Where is your so-called democratic authority today, to impose all these measures? I have a second question, and it's in 45 hours. Do you all read the lyrics yourself? Really. Everyone says that was never spoken in 45 hours. But have you read what Mr Peeters writes or is that really so insignificant? Is that just for CD&V, or what? What do I read on the website caravansurmesure or workable work? Listen carefully, right-wing Members, I will read to you what your minister has written: "The reference period for calculating the average weekly working time will be legally set at one year, with the daily working time and the weekly working time not exceeding 9 and 45 hours respectively." That means, and no one has confessed today, that workers will have to work 45 hours a week and even 50 hours, actually. You don't like to hear that! More than sixty thousand people have come to the streets to reject those 45-hour weeks of work. That is what you are all afraid of, because you feel it today: you have no democratic support for introducing 45-hour working weeks, and that is what you find ambiting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u23	Prime Minister, I hear from your mouth that you're tired. This is worrying for a Prime Minister! You're just giving gifts, and no one understands you. Review your communication and pedagogy. I can only see the autism of the government. You have to listen to the workers, the first engines of the economy. Stop taking one-way measures, after the index jump, after the pension at 67 years of age, the overt flexibility with the week of 45 or even 50 hours. It'll set the country on fire. Measures that always penalize workers, pensioners, job seekers, women and young people. Prime Minister, take measures to improve working conditions, to share working time and to restore a real social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, congratulations, you ordered the next strike, the next event. Perhaps there are political parties in your majority who will approve of that, because politically they live from that contradiction, from that conflict. Weird, ladies and gentlemen, but last week we had a fascinating debate here following a call from the society of three CEOs for a collective project of ambition. The Consultative Committee meets and after forty minutes the situation has been resolved and an image campaign of EUR 4 million has been launched. Prime Minister, our country does not need an image campaign of a few million euros. It needs a fiscal shift of billions of euros. The message, Tuesday, was that everyone should make a proper contribution, including MEPs, including fraudsters, also great abilities. That was Tuesday's message. One more point, because I see that Mr Beke has arrived in the meantime. I read that CD&V will still make a timid attempt again for a contribution of the greatest abilities. I don't even want to be as critical as your own mayor and I still want to give you the benefit of the doubt, but this time it will have to happen. The chickens have cracked enough, Mr. Beke. It's time to lay eggs. The fair contribution of the greatest capabilities must now be made. The third time must really be a good time. That is the call that resounds very widely in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u25	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, but frankly I do not understand why you are so stubborn. Every time I hear your answer, I have to think of a minister in Iraq, known as Comical Ali, who denied that the Americans are in the country, while everyone could see the American tanks behind him in the picture. You look like Comical Charlie. You and the 85 members of the majority are the only ones who still believe that there are no problems in the country, while everyone gives you signals every week. You persevere in your stubbornness and you do not listen. I hope that you will understand, Prime Minister, and that you will take the signals seriously, although I honestly no longer believe in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. It is good that everyone here can express their opinion and that this opinion can also be expressed on the streets and in the newspapers. There are differences of opinion, but now is the time to actually sit around the table. I hope everyone has listened carefully to the Prime Minister's words. He said he was willing to consult with the social partners. He will invite them and he is willing to refine or improve the measures. That's an invitation. That's brave! I hope that the social partners will also have the courage to sit around the table, to think with and stick their necks out to come up with a comparison, so as to facilitate social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you again for making the points and making them clear. Our group will support any initiative that strengthens and promotes our investment climate abroad. However, in order to ensure that this is not a waste of money, the basis must be good. This government is doing everything it can. However, it does not help to see images of demonstrations leading to violence with bloody faces. It doesn't help if the guards' unions have been on strike for four weeks, making judges walk criminals on the street because the guards are on strike and there's no room in the prisons anymore. This can't be! Once again, we find that the guards of Saint Gillis reject the last proposal made by Minister None. This is a proposal that the Flemish guards have long said is more than they asked for. Prime Minister, we need to talk, but there must also be a willingness to talk to the social partners rather than a cabinet. This has to stop, Prime Minister! Parliament must shoulder its responsibilities and we must stop cutting off the branch on which we are all sitting together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u28	Prime Minister, Mrs Onkelinx had a very difficult time with the text I presented to her. I know it hurts that we first agree on a text with a lot of reforms, which are good for this country. Now, two years later, she throws away some ostentative stuff. That's very striking, isn't it? We must go further in this country and we must not allow ourselves to be paralysed by a political problem of Mrs Onkelinx. What's the problem? She supported the reforms, but she did not dare to implement them because she was afraid of Mr Hedebouw. That is the problem in Wallonia; that is why we are not getting ahead. Dear friends of the PS, we will not destroy the country because of your political problem. We will accept our responsibility, reform the country and ensure that jobs are added and that social security remains safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u30	Mrs Fonck has the floor, and no one else has the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u31	Prime Minister, the strike is a failure. I agree with you on this point. But when you say that she intervened because the concertation had failed, let me tell you that this is not reality. Indeed, you have already made your decision, even though the consultation on the 45 hours a week file has not yet begun. It is not, Prime Minister, by saying here every week that you are open to consultation that this will work, it is by making a significant gesture of openness. To return to the annualization of working time, it is possible to work quite differently. If you want to include the 45-hour rule in the 1971 Act, you are seeking to impose it unilaterally on workers. It is possible to negotiate this issue with the sectors in order to obtain flexibility that is not imposed, but that corresponds to the realities of employers while respecting workers. To find other solutions, Prime Minister, is also to take positive steps towards a balance between work and family life. To continue without making an opening gesture is to go straight into the wall. To really hold hands with the social partners you - and we - would make it possible to find positive solutions for both employers and workers. It is our collective responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u32	Prime Minister, you are determined to remain deaf and blind to what is happening in the real world. You bear a heavy responsibility because the deteriorating social climate is also an economic climate and the image of our country is deteriorating. You have to get out of this mess, and it's not by doing more of the same thing, by accrediting it with communication campaigns to millions of euros that you will achieve it, but it's through the project. A project that helps to better share the work so that more people work; an energy project that aims at our independence from foreign investors or suppliers and creates jobs in our country; a project that puts tax justice at the centre of the game by pursuing major fraudsters and changing our corporate tax system to make it more favourable to job-creating SMEs here near us. There are alternatives, Prime Minister. But to do this, you need a little imagination and willpower. You miss it so badly!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u33	According to various sources, on Wednesday 17 May this year it appears that a package was laid down in the European Parliament in Brussels. A private transport company reportedly delivered a package to a European Parliament official early in the morning, which was supposed to contain cosmetics. After finding this suspicious package, the army's demining service was called to the scene and carried out the explosion of the parcel in the basement of the parliament. According to the prosecutor's office, but also according to the federal police, who did not deny the intervention of the demining service, this package contained no explosives. However, according to another source, this information would be false as the package in question would have contained not only explosives but also a firing mechanism. An investigation, both internal and external, is under way. Minister, what do you know about this case? Do you or do you not confirm the presence of explosives in this package?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u34	Mr Carcaci, there are important, if not very important, problems. I'm aware of this file. This is an incident that took place on the 18th of May, not on the 17th, but it doesn't matter. On that day, the police services were called by the European Parliament's security service because they thought they had detected a suspicious package. It was a parcel of the post office, a cardboard box, which was controlled by the internal security service by means of X-rays. In this parcel of the post, wires and something that looks like an explosive or could trigger a firing of the package were detected. The police were called and visited as well as the specialized army service. They conducted an investigation but found nothing about explosives. So I can confirm that this package contained no explosives. It was a false alarm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I have some concerns. The discretion was very great in this file and few things filtered. However, we are in the aftermath of 22 March 2016 and a commission of inquiry is currently looking into the possible malfunctions of the Police Intelligence Service or of general intervention. There are a few concerns here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u36	Mrs Pas, you are asking for the floor on the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u37	Indeed, Mr President. I am surprised to see Minister Van Overtveldt walk in. On the list that was distributed this week, it said that he would probably be absent today. Nevertheless, this morning I first put a question to Minister Van Overtveldt about the billions that will now be thrown back into the bottomless Greek wells. The services informed me that he would not be here this afternoon; hence I replaced that question with another one. I would appreciate it if I could be properly informed about the ministers' presence in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u38	Mrs Pas, of course nothing says that you have not been properly informed. Apparently, perhaps against his own expectations, the Minister was still able to come to the Chamber, for which, by the way, thanks on behalf of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I will of course not ask questions about an ongoing investigation. Nevertheless, I would like to denounce the system once again today. What happened? Some young people, this time in Antwerp, were arrested very recently, because they probably wanted to commit a terrorist attack in our city of frying. What do we know about these kids? We know three things. First of all, they all had a criminal past. They all had something on their hands. Secondly, they all had been in contact with Hicham Chaib, former leader of Sharia4Belgium for a few weeks to months and now one of the leaders of IS. Thirdly, a part of them are concerned with my question: was stopped a few months ago at the border. They wanted to flee to war zone, to join a terrorist cell there. Let it be precisely the current majority that has made that offence a criminal offence, that is an incredible merit and a step in the right direction. Then how the hell is it possible that these people are still out in our streets? That's not going to happen to me and to a lot of people anymore. The investigating judge has decided that the parties concerned have done their best, have made a statement and have promised that they will get back on their feet. That turned out to be enough. Some of them were released under certain conditions. You can't tell me that someone from home can't commit an attack. That's almost the same as grounding someone who's suspected or charged with domestic violence. That's as kafkaian as what happened here. That is why I have two questions for you, Minister. First of all, has this law ever been applied? If so, how many times? Secondly, you do your job. We are doing our job. The current majority and this House have made such cases criminal. What initiative will you take vis-à-vis certain authorities within the public prosecutors, for example, so that they can take greater action and comply strictly with the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u40	Mr President, Mr Metsu, you know that I have to observe a great deal of discretion, both with regard to ongoing investigations and with regard to commenting on the attitude of the court in certain cases. I will, of course, not be short of that obligation. I therefore confine myself to the elements given yesterday by the federal prosecutor: eight searches at the request of the investigating judge of Mechelen; eight individuals deprived of their freedom, including three minors; four suspected of participating in terrorist activities; two under arrest mandate placed by the investigating judge, one under the modality of an ankle band, two other released under strict conditions. One of the minors was placed in an institution by the juvenile court. So two people are currently in protective custody. Those involved were suspected of wanting to recruit to fight in Syria or Libya. Some would even have intended to travel and join the Islamic State. No weapons or explosives were found in the search. The preliminary data showed that there were plans to attack somewhere in Belgium, but I cannot give further details in the interest of the investigation. Our services remain alert. I would therefore like to thank them. As far as legislation is concerned, you know that I have submitted a draft TERRO 1, TERRO 2 and TERRO 3; 1 has been adopted; 2 and 3 are currently on the agenda of your Counter-Terrorism Committee. We are taking further measures both in the area of the anklet and in the area of pre-trial detention. I am monitoring the matter closely, but unfortunately I cannot say more than I have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Part of the question remained unanswered, but it can always be. It was about criminalising the travel to war zone. When will we be able to make a more decisive decision? I hope, together with you, that we will soon see change on the ground. It goes without saying that such individuals pose an imminent and permanent threat to our society. No one can get around that anymore. Hence, terrorists or people who love this thought should not be in our streets. They only belong in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I have now been asking you about the situation in prisons for three weeks in a row. It must be noted that after these weeks, the virtues of dialogue have finally shown their full strength and capacity because, once again, a protocol is proposed to the various institutions and agents so that they can decide on this protocol which will allow – I hope – a quick resumption of work. Attention should be drawn to the fact that this dialogue will not stop now, since, during the contacts I have had, I have been able to see that, unfortunately, confidence seems to be difficult to regain. By doing the "rendez-vous clause" that I would rather call "clause of trust" planned for 2017 is essential for the continuation of the dialogue. This will also provide an opportunity to carry out an evaluation of the measures proposed and actually implemented. You mentioned an analysis, establishment by institution, of how to work. It is normal for any institution to authorize such work. It's not blind work. Nor is it a job that comes from Brussels. It is a work that will be carried out, by establishment, with the actors in the field. It is also an important aspect. Last week, you announced – this is a first, at least, I don't remember that this was done in the past as precisely – that by the end of the legislature, the number of inmates would be less than 10,000. This is particularly important with confidence in a clearly expressed announcement. Minister, what are the main elements of this agreement, which seems to me to be cross-cutting and which affects several areas of our country's prison policy? How do you plan to fight prison overcrowding to reach the goal of up to 10,000 inmates? In concrete terms, how are you going to improve security in our country's prisons? Finally, how did you anticipate the return to work, establishment by establishment? Indeed, relations between prisoners and prison officers will have to be renewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this long negotiation we have acted guided by three main concerns. First, we have taken into consideration the long term, namely, to pursue a prison and humanitarian policy worthy of a country as rich and as committed to human rights as ours. So I tried to focus on the fight against overpopulation. I've already reduced the number of inmates by 1,000. The latter are now 10,750. This number needs to be further reduced to fewer than 10,000 inmates. This should be achieved through four measures that I have already mentioned to you on many occasions. These measures relate to internment, electronic surveillance, repatriation and pre-trial detention. In addition, the infrastructure needs to be modernized. Furthermore, to the extent that we are ready to do so, we must try to work differently but with the same services. Secondly, in the medium term, I have tried to ensure that prison policy does not conflict with the current economic and budgetary policy of the government. This was therefore not the time to distribute great gifts, but the government was extremely reasonable in the proposals it made. Thirdly, in the short term, I have tried to maintain unity between the prison officers of the North, Brussels and the South, an interesting exercise and not at all easy, but I believe that as a federal minister I have succeeded. As far as the near future is concerned, it is clear that the vote, which still has to be held in Brussels and French-speaking prisons, is not won in advance. I am pleased that the unions take their time to inform their members. The government, and more specifically the Ministry of Justice, together with the Minister of Defence and the Interior, is preparing for the resumption next week, as well as possible. Let us hope that this can be done very quickly. But above all, let us inform our prison officers in Brussels and Wallonia more. Thank you, Mr. Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u44	Minister, thank you for your very clear answers. I do think it is important, now, that the work be done, establishment by establishment, in order to see precisely the proposal that is on the table. The support of the MR Group for this proposal is total. The debate was conducted. It was important that the problem of the prison world had been highlighted. I do. The prison world has been heard. Now it's high time to get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u45	Mr President, Minister, since you are present when this presence was not assured, I would like to ask you about the statements you have made in the press concerning company cars. If we believe the title of the newspaper in which you spoke, you would have broken the taboo of the company cars, taking the opposite of what your own party president was saying a year ago, pleading for a status quo, and even taking the back foot of what you had previously said in this chamber. A priori, this development could be welcomed. As we know, the current system of company cars is untenable. It is budgetary because it consumes significant financial resources. According to the OECD, the tax expenditure is estimated at €2 billion. It is a system which is unfair and which, in the end, is absurd, since it amounts to subsidising the plugs and creating mobility problems, as the study of last February's plan has shown. We might be happy about that, but at the same time, I tend to be a little cautious about your statements. First of all, when you talk about tax shift, we tend to be wary. The precedent is still not funded, and it has serious adverse effects, particularly on household consumption. Furthermore, when you read your statements correctly, we realize that you are moving backwards. You use the conditional. You are linking this reform of company cars to a reduction in labour taxation and you conclude by saying that nothing is simple in politics. We've already seen more enthusiasm. Finally, the most shocking thing may be that your own firm has sort of framed your remarks by speaking, if I'm not mistaken, of an "intellectual sense." Minister, the question I would like to ask you is whether your expression in the press is an intellectual reasoning, the reasoning of an observer who would make a few comments or a political commitment, the commitment of a minister to deal with the matter. Are you going to table concrete proposals on the government table? What amount of money are you going to be working on? In what time frame? In summary, Minister, is your corporate car tax shift an announcement effect or an announcement of facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u46	Mr Dispa, in the interview to which you refer, I did not declare anything new. My position on company cars has not changed at all. Let's be honest! What is the main point in all this discussion about company cars? This is the fact that this "system" has developed in recent years because of the heavy taxation on labour. In a sense, it forced employers to look for ways to be able to give something to their employees. The company car was often the solution. That's the reality. As I have always pointed out, it is also the heart of the problem. We must therefore reduce the burden of taxation on labour and then we can discuss the system of company cars. The order is well established, we must first reduce the tax burden on labour and then, eventually, see what can be changed in the company car system. That remains my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. She's very disappointing. Those who thought you had opened a door to reform of the company car regime will be cruelly disappointed. You're saying there won't be anything new. No figures, no timetable, no proposals. Your position on company cars reminds me of your position on the tax on financial transactions: it is rather yes but no! You are in favour of reform in principles, in ideas, in speeches, but in fact and in gestures, there is nothing and there will be nothing! I'm sorry. Together with Mrs Fonck, with Benoît Lutgen, we have tabled a bill aimed at creating, within the framework of the current envelope allocated to this tax advantage, an extension of the possibilities of using this advantage by employers and workers. The aim is that the system can benefit those who use their car to get to work and also those who would like to take advantage of this advantage in the context of the use of public transport, carpooling, cycling, or even to improve their quality of life via telework or housing aids. One proposal is on the table, there are others. I hope that, despite your disappointing response, you will agree to open the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u48	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has estimated that the tax misconduct of large companies in Europe costs the 28 Member States EUR 70 billion a year. We also know that we have a problem with this in Belgium. The VRT Fact Check makes it clear: the top 50 companies in Belgium make a profit of 30 billion and pay less than 80 million taxes. That's about 2.65 %. To make it even more concrete, I have taken a large Flemish and a rich Walloon family. The Spoelberch family has a company, makes 150 million euros profit and pays 3 200 euros taxes. The Lhoist family in Wallonia has a company, makes 378 million euros and pays 2 800 euros taxes. When we debate in the Finance Committee, I hear this minister and the majority say week after week that we need to tackle such problems at European level. On Wednesday, ladies and gentlemen, there was Ecofin Council, the moment of truth: the anti-avoidance directive is on the agenda. There is little or nothing about it in the Belgian press. I advise you to read the foreign press, my fellow Members. For example, I have included Agence Europe and Reuters. What do we determine? The most cited country, the most cited representative of that country, is our Finance Minister. Before you begin to congratulate him, I must tell you that his statements are a consequence of his being obstructed, preventing a European consensus. It inhibits on the four wheels for two important measures, those relating to foreign controlled companies and the interest deduction. Minister, have you expressed your personal opinion at the Ecofin Council or are you speaking on behalf of the government and all government parties? I would very much regret that, because our country is known as a country that is building on the European consensus and is not going to stand in the way of putting an end to totally unfair financial and fiscal situations such as those I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u49	Mr van der Maelen, I am going to try to ease your concern or indignation a little, although I know from my experience in the Finance Committee that this is usually not the case. Anyway, I'm gonna try anyway. As far as your comments are concerned, I would like to make a few points very clear and objectively verifiable. The Dutch Presidency did indeed put on the table yesterday, at the Ecofin meeting in the context of the Anti Tax Avoidance Package, a first proposal. The discussion yesterday was the first political discussion on that proposal, the first political discussion. It was an introductory discussion which showed that there were quite a few reservations. I have indeed expressed some reservations myself, but many other countries have expressed concerns of a similar or different nature. What's decided? Some of these issues will be further examined and the discussion will continue at the ECOFIN meeting in June, within a good month. That's what happened, nothing more or nothing less. If you are aware of the situation in Europe, you will know that decisions rarely fall into the hands of a first political discussion. So that didn't happen yesterday either. To tackle tax avoidance, the OECD directives, the famous BEPS directive, are indeed the norm. That is what our country, our government and myself are very clear about, and that is what we are focusing on. We sincerely hope that everyone in the international community will support this. That is where the challenge lies. That was also very clear in yesterday's debate. We note that, among other things, the United States and China are gradually taking steps backwards and are failing to comply with those OECD directives, or at least expressing their intention not to do so. That calls for further discussion. I know that you do not share my view in this respect, but if we are going to stick to a number of directives that countries such as the United States and China do not want to abide by, we will certainly face a problem in terms of the investment climate and competitiveness. I would like to reassure you once again, however, that the Belgian Government will always take the lead in defending and pursuing the guidelines laid down by the OECD.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to read Agence Europe and Reuters. Unfortunately, nothing about this is going to be found in Belgian newspapers. Read Reuters and Agence Europe and you will see that, in terms of interest relief, this Minister is one of the few who opposes a reduction in interest relief. One of the few! The new rules on controlled foreign companies (CFCs) are again subject to the same rules. Mr Minister, you are in very bad company in each of these files. You are in the company of Luxembourg, a country that you wiped out at the beginning of this week because of the oral rulings. We all know the disastrous role played by Luxembourg. You are in the company of Ireland, the home of the Amazons and the Googles that we all know do not pay taxes. What we, the Belgian people, the SMEs and the honest taxpayers expect from you, Minister, is that you create the European consensus instead of playing the lobbyist of large foreign companies. We need that European regulation in order to achieve fair taxation. I am sorry to note that this minister is annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u51	Minister, you have advised the railway workers on strike to put themselves in the place of the citizens. It's true, we're all thinking about commuters who, since last night, have had difficulty going home, going to work, school, single, etc. A wild strike is always unbearable. But, Minister, there's a "but". The consultation and the Memorandum of Understanding on wild strikes are valid for everyone, also for management. However, HR Rail must not be above the rules and must allow for a social climate conducive to negotiation. Minister, I want to turn your advice to you and ask you to put yourself in the place of the railwaymen for a moment. How do I react when management unilaterally decides to remove credit days, recovery days for unpaid overtime? Put yourself in the place of the railwaymen for a moment! When they pulled off, do you really think they didn't think about the fact that they were going to put the whole planet on their backs? Of course I do! But I wonder why HR Rail chose precisely this moment, the moment when everyone is under investigation to make this decision. Is there not a kind of cynical will and a scandalous bet to consider that the railwaymen will not unravel during the examination period? This avoids the breakage. Or, if not, the railway workers will strike and unravel and put all the population and public opinion on their backs. That is precisely what is happening today. Unfortunately, this government's total disregard for consultation and negotiation explains why today the railway workers are on strike, why they are at a standstill. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you what you intend to do to finally bring this dialogue back to the SNCB and to ensure that not only does your door remain open – I am convinced – but that the management door is also open to railway workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u52	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to express my sincere thanks to all Flemish SNCB staff, who are very often doing and doing their work properly in unoptimal circumstances. The French-speaking rail unions are clearly wrong about targets once again. They have organised an unannounced strike and, according to the latest news reports, they will continue to do so tomorrow. This is primarily affecting travellers, who have no responsibility whatsoever. In the absence of a day of leave, the thousands of travellers who have had to sacrifice a great deal of leave over the past few years will really not be understood by the regular strikes, which have prevented them from getting to work. The anger of those who make daily use of the train and get into trouble for the umpteenth time by the wild strike is also found, just like the anger of those who do not use the train, but pay a lot of tax money annually to keep that circus company running. Minister, there is a right to strike. There has to be, but SNCB, as a public undertaking, also has obligations towards the taxpayer. The minimum service is set out in the coalition agreement. In the meantime, you have confirmed the position that your predecessor in the government always maintained, namely that you would not come forward with a proposal until the social dialogue did not provide a solution. However, your predecessor has also said on several occasions that her deadline for social dialogue was at the end of 2015. That deadline has been over for more than six months, Minister. How long will you wait to effectively implement the coalition agreement in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u53	Minister, you took up your duties a short time ago and, without a pun, you boarded a train at 150 km/h. Yesterday, in the Committee on Infrastructure, you made it clear that you were the man of dialogue, the man of consultation. So we are a little surprised that last night a spontaneous, wild strike took place within the SNCB. This is very worrying and it hurts the whole country: workers, students, commuters, railway workers, etc. Moreover, Belgium's image is once again damaged, and this was really not the right time. This strike, which arrived without agreement, is calling on us. Indeed, HR Rail's management decided to issue a circular on Tuesday and to implement the social measures that were determined last December, including the reduction of compensation days. It's surprising, especially since you said you were the man of dialogue. Minister, why has HR Rail decided to take this matter under control? And why this week? What actions are you going to take to restore serenity? And what conclusions can you draw from this morning's HR Rail meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u54	Mr Minister, yesterday afternoon we had a long meeting in the Committee on Infrastructure, and on behalf of my group yesterday I wished you a good mix of diplomacy and decision-making power. Today, I would like to ask you above all to decide. For us, it has been enough. At the beginning of the year, I also stood here with a number of colleagues to question your predecessor about a five-day strike announcement, because the staff at the railway company would lose one day's leave. Today, at the end of May, we are again here because of the same leave or credit days. This time they give rise to a wild strike. I haven't heard anyone explain exactly what it's about. I'll give it a shot. What is the ghost of credit days anyway? Well, it is about the principle that the staff are building up credit days for the hours they perform over 36 hours a week. The absurd and inexplicable is that the principle also applies during the holiday period. Those who have taken holidays in July will receive one credit day. You can't explain that, can you, Minister? People don't understand that. Mrs Grovonius and Mrs Poncelet, I wonder how you can explain this arrangement to factory workers, servants and cleaning women. At the railway company staff can build credit days during their own holiday. Absurder can't do it. Nor will you be explained to the student who was stressed at the station this morning to go to his exam and face abolished trains there. Mr Minister, today we are experiencing a wild strike and that is totally contrary to the social agreement signed by the trade unions. The social agreement is thus referred to the wastebasket. I would therefore ask you to act and decide today: a legal anchoring of the social agreement, concluded and binding on the trade unions. I would also ask you to take further initiatives in relation to guaranteed services and to organise social elections in the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u55	Minister, this year opened on a strike, placing itself under the wrong auspices. Today, we're back! But this time it's a wild and finish strike. The common point between these two events is that citizens, rail customers – whether they are workers, students in examination or job seekers – as well as all those who want to advance the country and provide work to each other, those who want to defend the image of our country are tired of it and more than enough of being taken hostage. This strike is unacceptable, first of all because it is wild and contrary to the Memorandum of Social Agreement, through which all parties committed themselves to a minimum of ten days' notice. This strike is disrespectful, because we are again in examination. Yet some trade unionists had pledged not to go on strike during this sensitive period. And then, this strike is disproportionate to the measures that are being challenged. We talked about those credit days. I would like to point out that they are based on a system of services actually provided. In addition to this measure, balanced proposals were made. Indeed, they did not question the employment of SNCB. I repeat, there are no plans for dismissal. Many of these positive measures make me enthusiastic about SNCB and its future. I would also like to point out that the status of railway workers and the 36-hour regime are not called into question. My two questions are simple, minister, and have already been asked in part. What are your intentions with regard to the social memorandum of understanding? How can we get out of this wild strike that paralyzes the country, tarnishes its image and takes the workers as well as all those who study hostages? What is the status of the implementation of the guaranteed service provided for in the government agreement, which will allow everyone to travel all year round and above all to ensure the continuity of the public service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u56	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank all the willing railway workers who have worked today. Mrs. Grovonius, you're turning the roles around. It's not HR Rail that decided today, during the exam period, to turn in the credit day. That was decided at the end of last year, and it was stopped in January. It is always your union militants who strike, who occupy the tracks and who now want to break the protocol agreement on strikes. How many strikes do we actually have to go through? How much longer do travellers have to wait for a guaranteed public service? If you are such a fan of public service, why should it remain dependent on the whims of the strikers? Anyone who thought the strike limits had been reached has been bluffed again today. I hear Mr Abdissi from the union this afternoon saying in the news that he wants an official solution to the conflict. Well, that official solution is there and she was even signed by his union. That's the protocol agreement on wild strikes. However, this is not being respected. What is the point of trying to reach agreements with them, Minister? We believe that the madness of the strike should stop. Last week, the prisons were sabotaged. Now the unions are sabotaging the railways. Both travellers and those who work for them are the victims of this. These are more people than the sixty thousand who argued on Tuesday, Mr Kitir. The N-VA, TrainTramBus and many citizens are in favour of a guaranteed service. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course everyone was hoping for a solution through social dialogue, but that seems to be in vain. We have to face reality. Parliament must act now. We tabled a legislative proposal on guaranteed services months ago, and we are now reaching out to everyone, from the majority and the opposition, to finally turn colour into a debate in the Chamber. After all, it cannot be that all the parties in the committee yesterday argued in favour of the interests of the traveller, but today they do not respond to the wild strike, which affects the same traveller. I have two brief questions for you, Minister. What's your reaction to the wild strike? How will you ensure that there is a guaranteed service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, as some people have said, that strikes are a tool in the event of failure of social consultation. But it is a right that must be exercised according to the very principles set out in the protocols and agreements, i.e. with ten days' notice to allow the necessary time for a social conciliation of the last chance. And in most cases, it ends. Here we are not at all in the same pattern. A wild strike is declared against the 2009 social agreement, in which it was stated that all the stakeholders in the social agreement, i.e. the SNCB Group and all the social partners - therefore the staff representatives - were prohibited from causing or/and covering wild strikes. Now we are faced with a strike without a ceasefire, with a strike that prevents workers and students from fulfilling their obligations. It is logical that a number of railway workers, depending on the region, take part in a very large number of citizens who want to move, workers, students, families who, at the last minute, have to find solutions or a car. This morning, the time of entry into Brussels, especially from the south, was longer than 40 minutes. With 30 to 40,000 vehicles, you do the calculation right away. This is not a strike proportionate to the elements at stake today. As I said yesterday, I am fundamentally in favour of a genuine social dialogue based on respect for and responsibility of the parties and respect for the procedures implemented. I do not have the impression that today, at this time and in the last week, we have had enough of this willingness to listen and to find the balance between all. I have therefore asked and I ask those involved in the trade union consultation to meet. They've already done it twice. A meeting was scheduled for this morning. It takes place this afternoon because a number of actors were themselves caught in traffic jams on motorways and could not reach the concertation at the time. Next week, the various scenarios relating to the guaranteed service will be presented to the Infrastructure Committee. This will take place on May 31. You will hear all the solutions and I hope that a good debate can take place on this. Of course, I hope that the discussions will be concluded as soon as possible. Before concluding, I would like to address two points. As I told you, I am in favour of a modern public service where every public company assumes its societal responsibility in terms of mission. This responsibility is shared between three actors, in all public enterprises: politics, company managers and, of course, staff representatives. We have a guideline for SNCB. We are talking about the fourth railway package, which we are not talking about enough. This package has been analyzed. It aims to compete and liberalise the domestic passenger transport service by 2020. A number of countries and governments, including the present Belgian government, had given their representatives a mandate to give these historic operators a chance to continue the organisation of the public service mission. This solution has been adopted, but as the directive says, the renewal of the public service mission to the incumbent companies will take place provided that they demonstrate a significant improvement in their performance criteria. These criteria are laid down in the Directive, which includes, inter alia, punctuality, efficiency, cost and public ownership. The horizon is therefore very clear. You'll tell me that eight years is a lot, which I'll tell you is short for SNCB. Indeed, there is a question here of a sector close to the industrial sector, which must adopt the same principles, but with a huge inertia between the moment of decision-making and its implementation. This path must be led with the three actors. That's what I proposed to the three actors. In order to allow the opposition to a provision as we hear it today, I ask everyone to return to the path of negotiation quickly, but also the way to work. Time is required to assess the two-and-a-half-day leave issue. Conducting a so-called strike at the endish, for several days, about this provision would not be reasonable. I am really sorry about this and I ask, as minister in charge of this public undertaking, to resume the path of responsible consultation on this issue, which is part of the whole 90-point social protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u58	Minister, thank you. As you said, it is the responsibility of all the actors, the politicians, the unions and also the management, to ensure that the SNCB Group can be on the track and get to the right place. Unfortunately, management has decided unilaterally to introduce this measure, which undermines workers' rights. They did, at one point, accept wage reductions to compensate for these additional days in order to make up for all the overtime they are working. So these are things that have been acquired at some point in time, to deal with demands for reductions in their wages. And today, unilaterally, we want to make a decision that goes against their rights. I fully agree with you. I hope that consultation can resume. In this context, I believe that the best solution is to ensure that this decision to abolish credit days is suspended pending the full resumption of negotiations and consultation between the partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u59	Mr President, Minister, my only question to you was about timing and you did not answer that question. You're gonna take the necessary time. Your predecessor's deadline has already passed six months; if you honour it, you should now take an initiative. A taxpayer-funded railway company must be expected to pay first and foremost attention to the interests of passengers. You refer to next week's committee meeting, 31 May. I would advise my fellow Members not to count on the train on that day either, otherwise they will not get to that committee meeting. Mr President, I have a bit of a déjà vu, because every track strike has a round of tough statements saying that minimum service needs to be provided, while nothing has changed in practice. There has been a bill in the committee for six months, and I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how long it will take before you deal with it as a priority, after which it can simply be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u60	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, you are calling for dialogue. All right! Everyone is called to that. But asking is not enough. The form is not enough; there must be a background, in a way a "carrot" to bring people to concertation. We must therefore work on the substance. Couldn't this fund be to propose to work on this principle of SNCB recovery? Shouldn't we just rid this principle of its possible inconsistencies and bring everyone around the table to discuss this? You tell the unions that they have to shoulder their responsibilities, but the entrepreneurs too have to shoulder their responsibilities. Without this, we will never move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u61	Minister, you have called for responsibility. I hope that this appeal will not fall into deaf ears with our colleagues from the left and that they will use their influence to stop this wild strike, which has come because credit days are being built up while on holiday. "Grève au finish" we read. If this continues, this will mean the end of the railway company, because that is how we are on our way to a Sabena-bis scenario. We'll give it to you on a platter. I have a specific proposal for you, Minister. My fellow Members say that it has to go forward. Well, it can move fast to stop those wild strikes. In 2014, you were a senator at the time, a text was approved in the Senate by the liberals, CD&V and the N-VA. It is true that not by our fellow Members from Ecolo-Groen, sp.a and PS, who say today that they are against wild strikes. This text legally anchors the social agreement on wild strikes, so that wild strikers will be illegally absent in the future and will be able to face the sanctions imposed by labour law. Minister, the text is ready. Do, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u62	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers and for the details of the rail situation in Belgium. It was not unnecessary to put into perspective the productivity measures taken by management in consultation with the trade unions and the need to achieve a level of performance by 2023 taking into account European requirements. As you said, we have to get back to work, it's very important. It is important to respect the concertation but also the citizens and students, in the general interest. I am sure that thanks to your pragmatism and determination, we will be able to give the SNCB exciting prospects for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as guaranteed services are concerned, we believe that a solution must be found. As far as the wild strikes are concerned, I went to look at your work in the Senate. I'll give it to you. Mr Lahaye-Battheu was actually ahead of me, but you have already done your homework as a senator and you can now finish this as a minister in the government. The proposal states that the protocol agreement must be legally anchored. This is also in the coalition agreement. We are a loyal partner in this government and we want to abide by it. It also states that financial sanctions will be imposed on trade unions if they fail to comply. I propose that we apply this and then the bill of these extra protest tickets will hurt the trade unions, even if they are still so cheap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the influx of refugees into our country has been reduced. Unfortunately, not because there would be fewer wars or fewer refugees worldwide, but because we have closed the routes and made it more difficult for war refugees to get to us, to Western Europe. That is the bitter reality. There are still 4.8 million refugees in Syria's neighbouring countries. We have 34 000 shelters, of which 5 000 are empty. What will you do now? A few weeks ago, you announced a phasing-out plan. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to warn you not to reduce the number of reception places too quickly, because before we know it, the influx is increasing again, there is another influx and then again we have the same problem as last year, where we have to improvise, we have to make every effort and so on. That reminds me of the cut-off which took place quite quickly, even under your rule, from 24 000 places to 16 000. That was a wrong decision. That is what we said at the time. Secondly, there is now a distribution plan, that is ready. There are also free shelters now. Instead of closing those shelters, we would ask you to consider using them for the resettlement of refugees. The resettlement of refugees takes place in cooperation with the United Nations. Our country also brings a few hundred refugees directly to us from the refugee camps in the region by plane. However, we are doing far too little. We promise a lot, but for every three resettlements we promise, you only realize one. So I would ask you to step up our efforts and use our buffer of free shelters for resettlement as well. Finally, the efforts made by the municipalities and cities to achieve such a distribution plan must be sustained. I ask of you a certain creativity. What are these cities and municipalities supposed to do with their free places? They have created it, there seems to be no financial problem, you will honour the commitments, but what should they do with those places? I ask your creativity, that you sit down with other ministers, so that those cities and municipalities that can use places for crisis shelters, transit points, homeless shelters, the welfare sector. The social needs in our society are high, the municipalities have now created this offer, so let us make use of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, you are again making a number of statements today on the reception of refugees, in particular asylum seekers. Finishing would be necessary. This is, of course, logical in itself: we are dealing with a reduced flow of asylum seekers, and then it is logical that they should be phased out. I'd like to ask you to be very careful. We know the tide can turn fast. With the summer ahead, with the conflicts in the Middle East and in Africa, with the uncertain agreement between Europe and Turkey, we cannot sleep on our two ears and decide that it is okay and that we no longer need places. If we cut down, we absolutely need to ensure that we have sufficient buffers or reserve seats. In the middle of a crisis of reception, we asked the municipal authorities to cooperate on a distribution plan. We needed them. A lot of city councils have done the same and sit there with those places. They believe that they have not created these places for nothing and want to be respected for that. I think that's only logical. At the same time, we have a third problem. When a person is recognized, he has a period of two months before he has to leave the centre, stand on his own feet and find something in the private sector. Those same municipalities and reception structures, of the Red Cross and others, say that that period is too short. I know there is an opportunity to ask for an exception, but this must be done on a case-by-case basis. Now that there is room again, it may be possible to extend the transitional period slightly to three or four months. Last month I asked you the question and you replied that you were working on the distribution plan and that you would go to the government with it. I note that this plan has not yet reached the government's banks. Where are you on the distribution plan now? What plan do you plan for phasing out? I already asked last month. Drainage, good, but first bet on the dismantling of large-scale emergency shelters. They were temporary, too. Those barracks were temporary. I am thinking of the municipalities, they are all asking parties to do away with it as quickly as possible. Sint-Niklaas, Hechtel-Eksel, Sijsele also say that these places were temporary and that they should be completed. We also agreed in the government's agreement that the Local Reception Initiatives should focus on vulnerable groups and people with a high risk of recognition. If the municipal authorities and others have provided for this, we must also honour it. Finally, do you agree with me that we should effectively seek a solution for the transitional period and possibly seek a structural extension to three or four months instead of two months? Then we really respond to the demands of the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, like my colleagues, I am trying to understand what the purpose of your policy is with regard to the compulsory distribution plan for refugees. I will quickly recall the chronology of the facts. In November, you are facing an influx of refugees and, together with your colleague Mr Borsus, you are sending a letter to the 589 communes in the country to raise their awareness and ask them to open new places. Some had already done so spontaneously. A month later, you send them a new mail, in which you announce a mandatory distribution plan. You explain the criteria, provide a fairly general timing and indicate that you want to open 5,000 places with this allocation plan. You're announcing a royal decree. We are then in December. I'm asking you about the legal basis on which this order will be based. You confirm to me that this is the law of 8 May 2013, voted, therefore, under the Di Rupo government, which, on the initiative of the Socialist Party, said that in the event of a large influx of refugees, the only solution was to organize solidarity between all the municipalities in the country in order to cope with this influx and organize the reception. You're making a royal decree that was approved on February 26th. You then confirm that this mandatory and binding allocation plan will be implemented and will enter into force on 1 May. Not seeing anything coming on May 1st, I'm asking you in committee. I ask you whether all the municipalities have reacted to your distribution plan, which municipalities have not responded, how many of them still have to react, how many places have been created within this framework, how many still have to be, and when. I also asked you how much will be paid to the municipalities by place created. Since then, requests for transfer of refugees to local reception initiatives appear to be delayed. It seems that your department discourages some municipalities from making housing available. On this basis, I have new questions for you. Is this discouragement of the municipalities in the provision of places to be linked to the private places you have opened? There is no transparency with regard to the latter. Is the privatization of reception limited in time? Are there contracts with durations or not? Can you terminate it with notice, based on fewer refugees arriving with us? What is your attitude towards the communes that have not made efforts in response to this binding call? Some municipalities have made efforts and others have done nothing. How will you therefore organise financial solidarity for the municipalities that have been pro-active? Since private initiatives are more expensive than local initiatives, the distribution plan is an opportunity to end the privatization of reception. Will you do it, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, as of May last year there has been a sudden increase in the number of asylum seekers in this country and throughout Europe. In April 2015, we still had an average of about 1 300 asylum applications per month. Every month, the numbers came up. In September 2015 we reached the peak of 5 500 and more. It soon became clear that the 16 200 available structural reception places were insufficient. In August, you activated buffer spaces. You've engaged barracks. Even later, additional places were added via emergency shelter, OCMWFs and a first call for tenders. Later, another one followed. The private sector has indeed cooperated. The private sector came last. If I am correct, it will also be the private sector which will be reduced in the case of overcapacity. I am also told that there would be an evaluation of the role of the private sector very soon. Our colleagues from the PS have already asked a lot of questions about this in committee. Meanwhile, there are two other important developments. Firstly, in the last two months, the number of asylum applications has fallen sharply. DVZ has made almost twice as many decisions in the last month than they had new applications. So we can reduce shelters, but I don't have a glass ball for the future. No one does. So we do not know what will happen in the next few months and whether there will be a mass influx of asylum seekers in the coming summer. Secondly, in the meantime, the OCMWs and the municipal authorities are calling the alarm because there are not enough places to give recognised refugees a roof over their heads. We are asking for the cooperation of social housing companies, but they cannot be employed. Places have been created in LOIS, but they cannot be used for recognised refugees. Hence my two questions, Mr Secretary of State. Firstly, what about the evaluation of the private partners? How's that gonna happen? Secondly, how will you use the excess of places for asylum seekers for the first accommodation of recognised refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u68	Colleagues, a lot of questions have been asked. We have already had a discussion on this in committee, but I would like to give some figures and a state of affairs. It was asked to be careful with the phasing-out plan. All parties understand that there will be a phasing-out plan. If the inflow drops very strongly and if there are many empty beds as a result, then it seems only logical to me to do something about it. Those empty beds cost money, by the way. It is therefore good to look at the phasing-out, but one must be careful and speak with two words, because one does not know what can come to us. That is absolutely also the position of the government. We have to be careful. Summer's coming. Of course, the matter has not stabilised, because the major contexts or push factors of migration to Europe have not been resolved at all. So we must remain careful, but leaving six to seven thousand beds empty is perhaps not really ideal either. With regard to the resettlement of refugees, Mr De Vriendt, we are following the quotas. Delay isn't a delay. We have discussed this many times. You say that we only meet one in three of our commitments. No, we will carry out all the commitments, including this year. There's been an administrative delay. You know that. Yesterday the first twenty arrived from Greece. You know it can go faster for us, but it doesn't depend on us alone. As you say, the efforts made by the municipalities must be absolutely clear that we could not have dealt with and managed this asylum crisis without the support of the OCMWFs and the municipalities. Mr Borsus and I are working very closely together, especially to make it clear to the municipal authorities, the VVSG and its Walloon and Brussels counterparts that we are working well together and that we should continue to do so, because our reception model is quite unique in Europe, especially when it comes to local care in small towns. I come to the question of whether the two-month period can be extended. That period shall be extended. Ten per cent of the people in the care facility who are recognised are people who have been staying in the care facility for more than two months after their recognition. Every day, Fedasil gives permission to do so. What's a reason to get permission to stay longer than two months? Let me give you an example. One has signed a lease, but one cannot yet enter the house. I think it's pretty strict. It is important that we change that. If a recognised refugee can prove that he has really gone to a lot of trouble to find a rental house or apartment, and has not been able to do so in the first two months, then I think that is a reason for an extension of up to four months. I already suggested that. Mr Borsus and I saw the VVSG and my fellow Members last week. I invited them to my cabinet, Wednesday at 9 a.m., for a number of items on the agenda. Firstly, local care is very important. Secondly, Fedasil's communication. Fedasil has worked very hard over the last few months. Fedasil's been working very hard in the last few months. However, it is important to improve communication. I think it is important to optimise communication with regard to the municipal authorities and OCMW authorities that have now offered something that the convention is not signed. It is important that we make it clear to them that we will respect the efforts they have made. Those who have made efforts must be honoured. That's just a matter of respect. We will. I said that last week. On Wednesday, Minister Borsus and I will continue to develop this technically and see how we are going to do exactly that. I think these were the most important points. What is the state of play with regard to the distribution plan? The distribution plan is, strictly technical, ready. It was sent to the Belgian Official Journal for publication. I'll take the activation myself to the government next week, and then we'll talk about it. At present, the activation of the distribution plan is not requested by the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities and the Walloon and Brussels counterparts. Within the government, we will talk about this openly. What is needed is the dismantling of emergency shelters. I agree. I'll come up with a phasing-out plan. You're saying I already promised. You should know that there have been bilateral talks. That's got some feet in the earth. That is not just something that can be decided from today to tomorrow. Each party in the majority must be able to agree to this. Next Friday we will land with that. Next week it will be decided whether the dispersal plan will be activated. I do not need this immediately and it is not asked by the field, but we must honour the efforts of the municipalities and the OCMWFs in this area. Without these efforts, we would not have been able to continue to give everyone a bed in recent months. As for your question on the privatization of the reception, Mr Delizée, I would like to point out that, of the 34,000 places, 2,000 are private. The government does not seek to conduct a large-scale privatisation of the reception of asylum seekers. That's not true. We have discussed this on several occasions in committee. I have made my position on this and on the private partners very clear. I seem to have answered most of the questions. It is clear to me, we will continue with this and next week the government will take a decision. On Wednesday we will talk to the partners of civil society, the local authorities. We will continue the negotiations to ensure even better communication and, above all, consider our attitude towards recognised refugees and towards the two-month period. I think we'll find each other completely. Of course, housing policy is not a federal authority jurisdiction. Whether it's after four, six or eight months, at some point everyone has to take responsibility. I want to be clear about that, too. I think I have made the most important points. The destination of the places to communicate to the municipality, so whether or not the places serve for crisis relief, is a suggestion I will certainly take with me. For example, it is also suggested to suspend faster. Quite specifically: there is an available LOI place where no one is located at any given time, but one is looking for a residence for a recognised refugee. Can the place in the LOI be used for this? This question must also be discussed on Wednesday. I am open to this; I am not against it in principle. I am even in favour of a more flexible approach. I believe that we will certainly get out of this, together with the partners of the VVSG and my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to use part of your reception network for the resettlement of war refugees. You're obviously a cool lover of that. Since 2014, you have not been able to organise the promised number of resettlements. You're organizing one in three. Now you have the seats. Come to a commitment, together with the whole government, together with the United Nations, to bring some of the war refugees here, at least more than now, because you are doing almost nothing. That's the best way to avoid the death routes. Secondly, gratitude to cities and municipalities is certainly in place. The distribution plan was announced in November of last year. It is now at the end of May and that plan is still not fully ready and therefore has not yet appeared in the Belgian Official Journal. Those are figs after Easter, because it will be there at a time when we do not really need it anymore. However, I do remember your suggestion that we should look together with your colleagues in the government at how to use the places that are in the cities and the municipalities to provide shelter, crisis relief and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, I remember from your reply a number of elements that I had also asked for. Make sure that there are sufficient buffers and very important ones. Please build up the large-scale emergency shelters. There are plenty of municipal councils that are asking parties. I see a number of representatives sitting here in this hemisphere to take them down. It was said that this would be temporary during the crisis. Also make use of the existing will of local partners, municipal authorities and others, to continue their reception in local, small-scale projects. This is also much better for integration. I am glad that you also say that you are prepared to show much more flexibility if it is necessary to keep someone in care longer after recognition. That's a first step. Perhaps, after that first step, it is necessary to assess whether this can not become definitive, a structural extension. After all, people often only get clarity after six weeks. I think it is important to take a first step and indeed to be much more flexible. We will assess that. Finally, we are asking very clearly for clarity and consultation to be given quickly. There are already schools where the OKAN classes are organized, a language bath, asking the municipal authorities what to do next year. Well, if you don't make it clear now that this next school year is no longer necessary, then they don't know what to do. So now, this month, give them clarity. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that next month I will not have to ask another question about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u71	Mr President, I agree with Mrs Lanjri on what she said at first, on prudence. At the beginning of this legislature, you closed two thousand places while an influx of refugees was predictable, even announced. And then you had to do something about it in the emergency. Today, there is a slowdown, in a situation that remains relatively precarious. Be careful, we don't know what tomorrow is made of! Secondly, I have had few answers to my questions. The meter ran for the communes from 1 December. You tell us that you will honour the financial commitments, without giving any amount per square created for the municipalities and CPAS that have made efforts. For those who have done nothing, you have provided for a solidarity mechanism. You did not say how you planned to organize this solidarity between the municipalities that have made efforts and the others. Thirdly, with regard to privatisation, we will never agree. I think it's a bad choice. Quality of reception problems arise in a number of centres. You're telling me it's only two thousand small seats. Well, since there are fewer refugees today, and they are no longer necessary, it's very simple: close these two thousand seats!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. In the meantime, I have heard once again that our colleagues from the PS are rather opposed to the influence of private partners in asylum care, despite the principles of price and quality. That is not our position. Whoever carries out these tasks is not so important to us, although there is an order in it, but we do want these tasks to be carried out at an acceptable price and with good quality. Not the organisation, but the objective and the realization are important. Finishing makes sense in the current circumstances. The asylum crisis has already cost the government a great deal of money. We must therefore avoid spending unnecessary money. Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that you remain very cautious by not looking immediately into the future and underlining that today's situation will not necessarily be the same as tomorrow's and next months'. That is why I ask you to maintain sufficient buffer capacity, even more than last year. I would also ask you to partially re-vote the existing capacity. This is a regional competence, but there are partners in the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u73	This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 May 2016, on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, I propose the appointment of working members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, No. 1698/1, to be registered. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 May 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary meeting the appointment of effective members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, No. 1698/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u75	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: the Great National Assembly of Turkey and the Parliament of Montenegro. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, messages of support and condolences came to me from the following parliamentary assemblies: the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Parliament of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nele Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1733/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1733/1) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u80	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1734/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1734/1) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u84	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Dedecker, Kristof Calvo, Michel de Lamotte, Kattrin Jadin, Werner Janssen, Karine Lalieux, Griet Smaers, Gilles Vanden Burre, Ann Vanheste.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Leen Dierick, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u86	Mr President, I welcome Minister Borsus' presence today to briefly discuss this bill. More and more companies are turning to foreign markets to secure contracts with the public sector as well as with the private sector. We must try to help them, as far as possible, to develop their activities both in the internal market and in foreign markets. In practice, it was found that some companies were being held back on the grounds that they could only provide the Bank-Carrefour des Entreprises certification in one of the three national languages. Depositing in all three languages is already good, but what about the opportunity to add English, recognized by all as the usual language in the business world? They therefore have to translate these documents, which requires heavy administrative procedures or additional costs which are rightly perceived to be superfluous. Therefore, it seems appropriate to us, through this bill, to remove the financial and economic obstacles faced by our companies by allowing them, if they so request and if they fulfil their rights, to obtain this certificate from the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises in another language. In conclusion, Mr President, for very obvious reasons of administrative simplification but also and above all in support of our companies in the development of their activities, my group and I will support this proposal with almost one vote. I therefore welcome the support, as I said, that it has received from Minister Borsus. I would also like to thank colleagues for the very constructive discussions that led to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u87	Mr President, we have also contributed to the legislative proposal, because we support the idea. During the discussion in committee, we added two amendments by the majority, which were intended to simplify this in relation to the purpose of the legislative proposal. As a result, it is no longer necessary to request an English-language extract from the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises to simultaneously request one in one of the official country languages, which was originally provided for in the legislative proposal. Thanks to these amendments, the procedure will be simplified and we have also reduced the costs for companies to obtain English extracts from the CBO. We naturally agree with the legislative proposal as amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1540/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1540/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u90	Mr President, we fully agree with the intention of this legislative proposal. The current procedures for achieving an English version are not only too cumbersome, but they also cost businesses. So we certainly welcome administrative simplification, but with the proposed amendment we want to overcome a new problem right away. As the legislative proposal now stands, one can ask not only for contacts with foreign authorities but also for domestic use extracts in English. Nothing in the current wording of the bill prohibits that. We would like to do that with our amendment. The language problem is very sensitive in our country. Flanders has fought long enough for the humiliation of its business. We must not simply throw that achievement overboard. We propose that the text be amended in committee, so that any request for an English extract from the CEDEFOP can only be made for contacts with foreign bodies. We want to introduce that restriction. Every time the company asks for an English-language extract, it must indicate that this is indeed for foreign use and give very concise reasons, without, of course, introducing an administrative burden again. The comment was also made in committee by my fellow Members from the N-VA, but no reply was received from the other colleagues. Our amendment does offer an answer. I am therefore counting on your support, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u92	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u93	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u94	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 448: Nele Lines, Ine Somers - 1224: Maya Detiège, Georges Dallemagne, Daniel Senesael - 1756: Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u95	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (448/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (448/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u96	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u97	Colleagues, I will not be long in this discussion. I just want to say that my group will support the text before us today. We believe, in fact, that it does the correct synthesis of the work we have carried out in the context of improving the diagnosis and management of people with Lyme disease. If it is obvious today, it is in any case the one that Lyme disease is very, if not extremely controversial. The hearings we conducted attested to this. Oppositions and exchanges of invectives have actually increased alongside the sufferings put forward by patients. It is in this extremely complex scientific context that many people are currently struggling to find their place and the answers to the diverse and many problems they may encounter. Of course, we are not, as parliamentarians, those who can determine what scientific approach should be taken, what treatment should be developed or how the diagnosis should be made in the context of this complex Lyme disease. But what we can do is at least highlight the problematic elements that were confirmed at the hearings and refer them to the government to take the necessary initiatives. Improving prevention in collaboration with the federated entities, stimulating research and, above all, allowing the updating of the recommendations for the treatment and diagnosis of Lyme disease as part of a multidisciplinary scientific approach, are all important elements that are included in the text and that we support. Through the various texts on the table, our objective was clear. The aim was to respond as effectively as possible to these patients by giving them a central place during diagnosis and treatment. We therefore hope, with the vote on this resolution, that concrete progress can be made and that the Government will take the necessary steps to implement the demands made to it, as well as to continue the establishment and development of the chronic diseases plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group will support this resolution on the multidisciplinary approach to Lyme disease. In this brief statement, I would like to stress that we, as a group and as a party, recognise the need for a clear public health problem. I would like to make three brief comments. The first thing we ask ourselves about such a resolution is cui bono? Who's gonna be okay with this? Or who do we want this resolution to improve? Our minister always agrees with us on this: the patient is at the heart of the matter. The patient needs to improve. It has not escaped anyone here that our society is facing a problem of chronically ill. Chronically tired patients are looking for answers, a diagnosis and a treatment. Cui bono? As a doctor and cardiologist, I am personally convinced that we have not invented heart disease. During the hearings, I sometimes thought that we should be careful. There are a number of people walking around in the chronic fatigue world with merciful intentions. In a health care system in Belgium worth around EUR 27 to 28 billion, three quarters of which are financed by our government, of which we should be the good family father, the question certainly needs to be asked. A quarter comes straight from the patient's pocket. This patient is sometimes, wanted or unwilling, a willing prey of people who are not so much concerned with his health as with his wallet. The second comment concerns our work in the Committee on Health. Besides Health, it is also the Committee for the Environment and Social Renewal. That committee has 15 members. Of those 15 there are two doctors-specialists, colleague Fonck and myself. We also have a doctor in the medical sciences and a midwife, and then we get a bit on our breath when it comes to university medical education. Of course we want to put the patient and his needs at the heart of the matter, but in a political forum such as the Health Committee, we must recognise that this may not always be the ideal place to discuss complex diseases with knowledge. The complexity of the content of these discussions led at times to embarrassing discussions. I'm gonna end up with a final focus, evidence-based policy. As a doctor I am a great supporter of evidence-based medicine, but one also has to face: the absence of evidence is not the evidence of absence. It is not because there is no evidence of a particular disease, that there is no such disease. I'd be happy to put my hand in the medical bosom for that. We may be critical, but we must be vigilant and keep our attention to the patient and his problems. Evidence-based policy means that one's decision-making is based on what one can measure scientifically. In the sixth century it was assumed that the earth was flat. One did not have the means to measure it, even less to deny it and even less to confirm it. In today's medicine, we know a lot of things. Let us use that knowledge, let us rely on that broad field of our university students and people who are doing this and let us support them. That is the task of our committee. We have to let the experts do their job. I'll come to my decision. I have absolutely no difficulty in supporting this resolution, but this resolution also fits me in that evidence-based policy. We must be able to show our great heart as a good housekeeper or mother, but nothing is more embarrassing than to find out in the end that there is no wallet to show that great heart. We must be prepared for that. That is the task that the N-VA will always have to deal with in this government. How do we keep all this affordable? How do we finance our big heart? How do we define that big heart and ensure that our portfolio can also be used in the right place with our big heart?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u99	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I referred to my written report because the exchanges in committee are resumed in accordance with what was said in it. I also wanted to stress the quality and positive nature of the discussions. The climate was extremely constructive. We have reached a compromise following the hearing of several people, including patient associations, doctors and patients themselves. Ultimately, we realized how highly complex and controversial this topic was. I very much appreciated the speech of my colleague Jan Vercammen. It is obvious that I am in line with his remarks, because his reflections have been particularly relevant. As far as the differences are concerned, we have understood at the end of the hearings how complex the issue is, particularly in terms of diagnosis. I had noted in committee that from the moment when scientists fail to agree with each other, it is naturally very difficult for us to find the ideal source to help us legislate. However, on the basis of the various information provided to us, we are, despite everything, in a compromise. I mentioned the difficulty of making a diagnosis. I would also like to point out the reliability of the tests, whether or not there is a chronic version of the disease, the divergence of treatments – antibiotics or not, and for what period – and, finally, the evolution of this pathology. Indeed, some argue that we are moving towards an epidemic, while others argue that the disease is in decline. From all these elements, we have had to agree to promote different actions and, above all, to make several requests to the government. I would like to point out some of them that seem important to my group. First of all, it is a question of stimulating research, as has been said. Moreover, it is likely that it will make it possible to form a more precise diagnosis and to have an earlier approach to pathology, so to act preventively. Similarly, we need to pay particular attention to possible co-infections. Mr Senesael touched a word on the involvement of the federated entities. It seems to me, of course, essential in terms of prevention, training and increasing medical knowledge, as well as in terms of research into the evolution and elimination of ticks. These are priorities that the federal government, like the federated entities, will need to seize. With this motion for a resolution, we are setting out clear lines for a better approach to Lyme disease. As I said, there was unanimity in committee. It conflicts with the controversies that we have heard. I'm glad. It is no surprise that my group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this legislature has taken several parliamentary initiatives with the aim of achieving a multidisciplinary approach to Lyme disease. Today we are voting on a text which seeks to make Lyme manageable, understandable and treatable. This resolution explains the fight against the infection disease transmitted by the tick bite. This resolution text shows a commitment to address the blind spots and gaps in the current Lyme approach. The resolution also clearly opts for a broader and more qualitative overall approach of Lyme, as already explained in the report. My party supports this text for several reasons. Firstly, there is a consensus on the need for greater attention to be paid to the prevention and awareness of tick bites. This will be done, among other things, through the signnet.be website. The Länder also have an important role to play in this. Secondly, we must continue to fight and eliminate the myths and falsehoods that still exist around Lyme and support the experts in doing so. During the debates and hearings, there has been a major fault between, on the one hand, stakeholders who consider Lyme disease to be a serious disease that can be scientifically substantiated and, on the other hand, the stakeholders who question Lyme's scientific evidence. That doesn't send a message to the patient. That's why more and more evidence is needed. That is a third important reason why we support this resolution, in order to continue investing in a greater general level of knowledge in the treatment, understanding and control of Lyme. An evidence-based approach is central to this, which focuses on further research in the broadest sense of the word, such as pharmaceutical research, continuous training of professionals and scientific research into treatment and analysis. Fourthly, the main reason why we support this is the care of patients with Lyme disease, which must also be qualitative, accessible and affordable. If new tests are sought, it is also necessary to ensure that a refundable benefit is provided for through health insurance. Colleagues, I will conclude with a quote from the Oriental scholar Confucius: "It doesn't matter how slow you go, as long as you don't stop. This resolution chooses the way forward. That is why my group will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, it has not yet been said here, but Lyme disease is getting a tick bite. Lyme disease and how to treat it is a difficult subject on which there are major contradictions among specialists. We found that during the hearings. If specialists and scientists don't come out, how are politicians supposed to come out? In particular, what should it be like to identify those contradictions in science for patients who have contracted Lyme disease and are suffering from it today? There are conditions in which the diagnosis takes place in exclusion. Those who do not show the obvious external signs, namely a typical rash, the ring around the bite, are often unaware of a bite. The consequences can manifest years later. At the heart of Lyme's problem is that we lack a good diagnostic tool and that there are still a lot of question marks in dealing with it. A government doesn't develop a diagnostic tool. That's the job of scientists. As a government, we can carefully monitor developments in this area and, as soon as there is a proper instrument, we can ask RIZIV to examine its reimbursement. Today we have the BAPCOC 2015 Lyme Borreliosis Diagnosis and Treatment Directive. Given the increasing number of signs, it is important that general practitioners be reminded of that directive. In this context, it is also important that the Communities make efforts to improve the knowledge of general practitioners about Lyme disease. We note that there is still a considerable deficit in this area today. I'm asking you to look in your area. Anyone who got a tick bite and went to a doctor will probably hear a different story. It is also important for us to be able to adapt the diagnostic and treatment directive to recent scientific findings. The resolution refers very specifically to two studies, a cohort study and a seroprevalence study, which is now under way at the WIV. We ask the Minister to amend the directive if these studies provide new insights. It is also important to take into account co-infections, which appear to be increasing. It is essential for our group to reiterate the importance of multidisciplinary treatment. Even better than diagnosing and treating can be avoided. This requires prevention, which is to sensitise people in order to be attentive to tick bites and to keep them permanently informed of what to do with a tick bite. Prevention and awareness are regional and community materials. That is why, Madam Minister, we ask you to urge your fellow Members of the European Communities to do so. Finally, we need figures. We need figures on the number of people getting tick bites, on the consequences, on the actions they are taking, but also on the development of the tick population, their biotopes and the extent to which ticks are infected with borelia bacteria. What happens to a human being is a federal jurisdiction. Today we have the level of practice that needs to map the scale. However, we believe that in future the registration of contamination can be much better guaranteed and framed within the registration strategy through Health Data. With signnet.be, the Scientific Institute for Public Health calls on the population. The intention is for people to register where and when they have caught a tick bite, whether they have contracted an erythema migrans, the so-called red circle, and also what action they have taken on a tick bite. Not everyone goes to the doctor with that bite, especially when they don't get a red ring afterwards. However, the site is not yet sufficiently known to collect sufficient data. Madam Secretary, the resolution was a warm call. In the same week in which the resolution was adopted, the WIV also communicated that the site should be promoted signnet.be and that an app will be developed, allowing people who are walking or playing and who have got a tick bite to report it via their smartphone on the signnet website. This is a very important step forward for the sensitising framework in which the federal government has also taken responsibility. What happens to the tick is the responsibility of the Regions. They are instructed to identify the extent to which the tick population is increasing, whether their biotopes are increasing or increasing, and to what extent the tick population is more or less infected with the borelia bacteria. It is therefore desirable that they examine the extent to which signs are being destroyed in an environmentally friendly manner, in order to reduce the problem somewhat. We very much welcome the unanimous adoption of the resolution in committee. I would therefore like to thank all the members of the committee, including the members of the opposition, for their constructive contribution to the debate. As mentioned earlier, the hearing on the issue was often very emotional. We've heard patients, too. My colleague said earlier that it is particularly important to listen to what scientists are putting forward. We can only endorse those words. Evidence-based medicine is the path we must continue to follow. Above all, however, I would like to stress that the suffering of many patients has also affected our hearts and that we want to support the resolution before them today in particular, in order to overcome their suffering, to ensure that they see light in the tunnel and to point out to them that there is hope. With this resolution, there is hope. Madam Minister, we are counting on you to elaborate the resolution. You have already taken a lot of concrete steps. We will continue to monitor the problem further. To all the Lyme patients in our country, I would ask you to persevere. After all, we are fighting for them here and we will continue to fight for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u102	Mr President, Minister, today we are voting on a resolution which has come a long and often difficult way. Despite the obvious needs of patients who have to bear the consequences of Lyme disease, which has already been described several times, this has not always been of equal importance to everyone in the past. We are therefore very pleased that the resolution will be voted on and we hope that you, Madam Minister, will also implement it as soon as possible. After all, Lyme disease is a condition that we know about. The big problem for patients is that they are far too often not recognized. Patients are often treated for many years for anything and everything before they are discovered that they are actually suffering from Lyme disease. The consequences are clear: the patient does not get better, is often accused of not being really sick, suffers from side effects and so on. In fact, non-recognition has two main causes. First of all, there is not yet a proper final test, which is why I am also very pleased with the call to continue looking for new, better tests. We can only act efficiently if we know what is going on. A second cause is often that there is too little attention or knowledge in the general practitioners, so they do not think of Lyme disease or too late. That is not an unwillingness of the doctors, it is certainly not a reproach to them, but because there is still so much uncertainty, it happens often. More attention, especially in high-risk areas, is therefore desirable. I am also very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that this jointly supported text includes the question raised in our resolution on the voluntary employment of patients. In the run-up to our resolution, during the hearings and many meetings, it appeared that it was difficult for many patients to remain active in society, both socially and economically. Each patient has other options, which depend on the moment. One day is good, the other can be bad. Because patients who are looking forward to it want to work on the good days, we have to support them in this. This requires specially designed pathways. It is impossible to predict how the ups and downs will go. Madam Minister, this resolution raises several questions for the government, which can help patients far ahead. We hope that these requests can be met, and we therefore support this resolution with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on this resolution, I would like to point out that a few years ago we put in place a plan to help people with chronic diseases. This plan was put in place because, at some point, parliamentarians and the Chamber Health Committee decided to listen to patients, people who were suffering, pain not always understood, not well cared for. They didn't feel heard. It is from there, from strange diseases: fibromyalgia, lupus, etc., because we had decided to dare open the doors, to look at these patients with a look taking into account their unheard suffering, because we had also allowed a cross-section between the different points of view of specialists and experts, that we finally put in place policies to allow them to take into account in the long term, by failing, at the limit, of the label of the disease that was put on their backs, but taking into account their sufferings and their complaints. We also worked this way on Lyme disease. People came to us to say: "We are not heard, as we suffer and express complaints. We do not understand that we are not being heard or better taken into account." The committee has therefore agreed to hold hearings. These hearings have provided many elements to improve our knowledge of the subject, but have also highlighted, in a way that I have not seen before, particularly aggressive conflicts between doctors, between experts with different visions, analyses and perspectives. It is true that, as parliamentarians, we are misunderstood when something like this happens, since we are not ourselves doctors or scientists, nor are we confronted with the decision to take care of these patients and the right treatments. On the other hand, we have a responsibility to ensure that the knowledge and consideration of these people improves. We need to put in place the necessary mechanisms to achieve this. In this resolution we voted in committee, we can only support all the efforts that are necessary to improve registration. This need for registration of vector diseases – either carried by a vector, the tick in this case – is recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO). It is necessary to improve the registration and recognition of all these people who, following a bite, develop a series of symptoms that can go up to Lyme disease. There is also a need to improve information and prevention at the federal level, involving the Communities, the Regions and the municipalities. The best way to protect yourself is to take care of his clothing, to be attentive during a walk and to examine himself during the return walk to remove the ticks, if there are any who have decided to settle on our calf. Another important element in this resolution is to ensure that knowledge on the evolution of these tick populations is improved in order, if possible, to achieve their elimination. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the committee has not incorporated the climate dimension into the elements to be taken into account in the fight against ticking and the solutions to this Lyme disease. I was told that it was because the climate issue was broader that it was not desirable to include it in this resolution. If, for a subject like this, the influence of climate change, as the WHO and the European Union say, of rising temperatures, of changing humidity levels in different places, especially in Belgium, is not taken into account, then we will not be able to manage the evolution of all these vectors, namely ticks, mosquitoes and other insects and animals that carry microbes, bacteria and viruses. They're going to survive at home when it wasn't possible before, because the temperature has risen. Therefore, taking measures to limit global warming is prevention, with the aim of limiting the proliferation and survival of these disease-carrying vectors. Finally, I would like to speak on one last point and remind you that it is the patient who must be at the centre of our concerns. It must be integrated into the research and work stages to improve diagnosis and treatment. But in order for it to be properly managed, the behaviour of the experts must change. I am thinking in particular of health professionals. According to the resolution, multidisciplinary work is indispensable. This is obvious. The patient must be at the centre of concern and integrated into all devices. But beyond the multidisciplinary dimension, it is necessary for the policy to lead health experts, the experts in vectors transmitting diseases (the Institute of Tropical Medicine, doctors, the Scientific Institute of Public Health) to meet around the same table. As has been said, there are different currents in this area. According to some experts and doctors, treatment with antibiotics for three weeks is sufficient. According to others, a one-year treatment is required. In the latter case, there may be concerns about antibiotic resistance in the patients concerned. Still others believe that the immune system needs to be strengthened, starting from the principle that if an individual develops this disease, it may be because his or her immune system was not sufficiently resistant. It is therefore important that the policy put in place mechanisms to enable experts who have different theoretical, scientific and biomedical orientations to compare their analyses, methods and to address in a differentiated way, around the same table, with patients, the problem of diagnosis and treatment. This amendment, which my colleague Anne Dedry and I had introduced, was rejected in committee. We rewritten it to respond to the criticisms that had been made. They said it was not up to the policy to bring together the researchers himself. Research always takes place in this way, and researchers come together and mix points of view. We know that this is not the case. The policy may not be able to bring them together itself, but it can in any case set up mechanisms that lead these experts, through the existing bodies, to work together and to confront each other. I would like to add a final element on this. Many references are made to evidence-based: of course, but the evidence-based ten years ago are not the same as those of today, and those of today will not be the same as those of tomorrow. Science is constantly evolving as long as we dare to look at new parameters, and confront another, just as scientific, but that works differently. In any case, if we allow conflicts between experts to continue today and do not take into account the patient, that we do not listen, and that we put him in the middle of these conflicts, it is clear that we will not fulfil the first mission we have given ourselves, that is, to respond to the complaints of these patients and to do everything possible to help them control this disease. We need to ensure that public health bodies can truly fulfil their mission of improving the health of our citizens. However, we will support this resolution as it is the result of collective work. It lacks this dimension, but it nevertheless takes on essential elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u104	Mr President, I am pleased that we are adopting this resolution today. This is the first time that the House has adopted a resolution on Lyme disease. It's not by chance. The World Health Organisation and the European Union say this through their vigilance mechanisms: this disease is growing. It is not unknown, but it deserves special attention and vigilance. I think that is the meaning of our resolution today. She's giving a spotlight. Parliament is calling for vigilance with regard to this disease, because what we know is that it is better to prevent it than to cure it, and that we have the means to prevent it, to detect it and to prevent people from being infected with b correliosis. We have the means to avoid tick bites. I would remind you that we are in the time when this contamination will be most likely to occur as it takes place in spring and summer. I address my colleague, Damien Thiéry, since I see he's listening to me. It is important that this signal be launched today because we are in this particular period. According to the Atlanta CDC, which is not everyone in terms of disease surveillance because it has a global reputation in this regard, there is a likely link to climate change. Attention must be paid to the further development of this disease in the coming years, in parts to the north, in Europe, and higher altitude than before. The work of patient associations should also be highlighted. It's true that they're the ones who alerted us to this disease. Although sometimes counter-truths or things that reveal themselves to the analysis need to be nuanced, it is important to be able to listen to these patients in their distress, in their journey throughout the health system, to check how in the future we can better help them and better respond to their complaints, and above all, once again, to ensure that this disease is better prevented, better detected and better managed, in short, whether it is a public health priority with a true public health strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u105	Mr President, my speech will be brief because our excellent colleagues have already spoken, in particular Damien Thiéry, who has described very well the reasons why our group will vote for the text of the resolution which has been the result of the work carried out in committee. As I know people who are suffering from this disease and have been able to participate in the first hearings, I would like to highlight two points. With this resolution, we confirm the will of our Parliament to listen to the suffering of the victims of this disease. This suffering is not only physical but also moral and psychological. These people also suffer from incomprehension, sometimes unbelief, of their loved ones and their professional circle. With this resolution, we are starting to respond to a public health problem by also asking researchers and medical professionals to try to reconcile their views with indisputable scientific advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u106	Mr President, on behalf of my party, I can only endorse this proposal. Unfortunately, I have not been able to attend all the debates. I read the texts. I support Mr Dallemagne and Mrs Gerkens who have drawn attention to the problem of climate change. In the future, it may be necessary to amend the texts in the light of what will happen. We will enthusiastically support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u107	It is a motion for a resolution and the government does not have to respond. Is the government asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u108	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Health because they have raised an issue, namely the chronic disease of Lyme, which affects a large part of our population. No effort was spared to invite numerous experts. It has already been said, unfortunately, science is not yet uniform about the causes and much less about the cure for Lyme disease. The Scientific Institute for Public Health is very concerned about the identification of the disease. I believe that it is necessary for science to step up in order to finally determine the cause of the people's complaints. As has already been said, what is not here today can be there tomorrow. Science evolves with a fast train ride. The political map rightly addresses a social problem and it is now necessary for all forces to unite in order to encourage and support scientific efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u109	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u110	Demand/application 4/1(n) • 13............................................................................................................................................................ ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u111	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Frédéric Daerden. The latter refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u113	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some two weeks ago we were debating the law transposing the public procurement directive and today we come to this House, the related issue of the law transposing the concession directive. What is our group's position? It is similar and consistent with public procurement. First of all, I would like to highlight the positive aspects of this bill, namely, a clear willingness of the legislator to clarify the legal framework for concessions and the expansion of SMEs' access to concessions, which is of particular importance to our economy. These positive points must not overshadow the oblivion and criticism of this bill. First, timing. I would point out that, as is the case with the law on public procurement, the timetable for transposition has not been respected. The coming into force was scheduled to take place on April 18, 2016. You'll be several months late. Secondly, and more fundamentally, the fight against social dumping. In the face of this catastrophic phenomenon, we must take binding and ambitious measures. This is not the choice of the government, which has decided not to seize all the opportunities that European socialist action offered it through the directives. Indeed, when it comes to taking effective measures in the fight against social dumping, the government does not foresee or refer back to later. For my group, this is a missed opportunity. Let me give you a few examples. In order to combat the many abuses we know, it is imperative to limit the subcontracting chain. As with public procurement, an explicit legal basis is needed to enable the government to take appropriate action. The text on public procurement has been amended to this effect by the majority following our proposals. Of course, this last milling did not go far enough to our taste, but I note a beginning of awareness. With regard to this draft, the Government and the majority do nothing and prefer the status quo. I come to my second example. Respect for social, environmental and labour law must be established as a fundamental principle. We cannot tolerate that companies that violate our laws are not necessarily excluded. Yet this is what the government is doing. Secondly, some unscrupulous companies resort to posted workers after putting their workers into economic unemployment. Again, instead of taking immediate action, the government is delaying solutions. With regard to the award criteria, it is true that the wording differs from that used in the draft law on public procurement. It's not exactly the same thing. However, it is always possible to limit itself only to the price, i.e. to the financial aspect as the sole criterion for the award of a concession. That doesn't make any sense. We must end the dictatorship of the lowest price and necessarily incorporate social and environmental criteria. In a constructive way, we are tabling several amendments, in order to improve the government's proposal and thus better combat social dumping. Without improvement, and given these shortcomings, we will not be able to support this bill. Too many jobs are at stake and this House must be consistent with the workers and with itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u114	Mr President, I shall speak briefly from my bench. Contrary to what Mr. Daerden said, this bill is in line with the government procurement bill. It aims to develop uniform, simple and clear rules that take account of the specificities of concessions in terms of public procurement. It is a draft law that creates legal certainty because it proposes a clear legal framework for concession contracts on the basis of European regulations. There was no specific legislation in this area. In committee, the minister, as usual, gave us a very precise and detailed description of the technical rules of the project. And I would like to highlight some of the points that are important advances for us. The bill simplifies procedures, makes them more flexible and will stimulate economic growth. The extension of access to SMEs, as in the law on public procurement, is a major step forward that will allow them to seize important business opportunities. With regard to the fight against social dumping referred to by my colleague, the bill is in line with the law on public procurement. As mentioned, in my view the mechanisms provided for are a balance between the obligations of the contracting authority and their accountability. These concession contracts will enable public authorities to take advantage of the expertise of the private sector to increase the efficiency of the public sector. In conclusion, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a new, appropriate, balanced and flexible legal framework that will ensure effective and non-discriminatory market access for all economic operators. It is therefore an excellent work that the MR Group will not fail to support with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u115	Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to endorse what Mr Piedboeuf has just said. With these concessions, we comply with the relevant European directives, as explained in detail by the Minister in committee. It is a complement to the debate we have also had on public markets. In these agreements, we deal with social dumping in the same way, one of the elements mentioned by Mr Daerden, as was the case for the public markets. In this respect, it is absolutely not a social regression, quite the contrary. SMEs are also granted access to these agreements. We are now creating legal certainty. It is very important in these markets, including economic ones, and in this way we are doing a service to our economy through this stable legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u116	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the members of the committee and its chairman for the very constructive work we have done on this extremely technical dossier. I would also like to thank Mr. Piedboeuf and Van Rompuy for their positive assessment of the content of the text. Then I would like to reassure Mr Daerden and share with him an expression: the tree is judged by its fruits. As far as social dumping is concerned, the sectors, workers, trade unions and employers' organisations, which we have met on several occasions, expect concrete results, of course, but also in terms of stopping job losses. I can assure you that the whole government – and I commend the work of my colleagues – is mobilized in an extraordinary way in this fight against social dumping. I would point out, for example, that the Committee on Social dumping will submit to the Commission on Public Procurement its full proposals on implementing orders, the limitations of the subcontracting chain and a number of other provisions. Mr Daerden, I would like to join you on the very priority of this fight. With my colleagues, we endorsed it. Allow me to make an appointment in a few months' time in the field, to assess the consequences. I will conclude by saying that this text is important. After the Law on Public Procurement, it concerns an entire part of economic activity. The concessions and a number of tools that public authorities in general wish to use are also a lever for creating activity. I believe that this lever should be implemented as quickly as possible. Mr Daerden, you mentioned the socialist family at European level. Don't hesitate to mobilise it to move a number of texts forward at European level, either with the Commission or with Parliament, because this fight is taking place at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u117	Minister, I heard you very well. Spring is slowly coming to an end and I still don't see any fruit on the tree. I hope we won't have to wait until next spring to see each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u118	As Minister of Agriculture, I can tell you that fruit rarely appears on trees in the spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1708/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1708/3) The draft law contains 69 articles and five annexes. The bill has 69 articles and five annexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u121	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 4 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1708/4) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u122	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 30, 50, 55, 57. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 29, 31 to 49, 51 to 54, 56, 58 to 69, and Annexes I to V.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u123	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1671/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1671/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Thoron, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u128	Mr President, the Minister of Pensions, we are well aware of the situation. This decision of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014 upset the police pension system and a solution had to be found. Your Government has chosen to put in place temporary measures that are worth what they are worth. They respond in part to the problem, but they are unequal and therefore cause legal insecurity. It was to be expected that an appeal had been brought to the Constitutional Court and we will see what will emerge from it. What we are dealing with today is the financing of these measures by local authorities. I asked the Minister of the Interior several times about this and his answer was always the same: it was the federal government that took charge of these measures. In other words, the federal pays. This is the government's first lie in this case. With this bill, you're doing nothing more than getting your measures paid by the local authorities, and thus potentially the Regions, by punctuating into their pension funds. It is totally contrary to federal loyalty, it is not tolerable. The joint pension fund of provincial and local governments will therefore have to pay you between 30 and 40 million euros each year. What if this is not enough to fund your measures? Are you going to leave the check in the police areas? In the Committee on Social Affairs, you, and the majority, simply did not want to commit you to take over the possible addition and simply rejected the amendment that we have tabled, which we are resubmitting today. On the other hand, yesterday in the Committee on the Interior, Minister Jambon, made it clear that he had only one word and that the federal state would pay the bill. I'm afraid that's the government's second lie in this case. Indeed, the royal decree that settles the issue for 2016 is signed by the Minister of the Interior himself and it clearly provides for a closed envelope of 29 million euros. And if that is not enough, the amounts granted are reduced proportionately. In other words, the police areas only have to deal with each other. I ask for consistency on the part of the government. The actions of the Minister of the Interior must be in accordance with his words. He says he'll take over the bill. All right, let's put it in our legislation. The government and the majority must be consistent in accepting our amendment, which specifically provides that local police areas will not be affected by these measures. Ministers, attach the floor to the proceedings, assume your policy and do not get rid of this issue on the backs of the Regions and local authorities!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u129	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are dealing with today is the result of the ensuing saga, following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014 on the end of the preferential pension scheme for certain local police officers. As a reminder, the law of 21 May 2015 passed in this forum allowed to maintain the preferential regime of police officers who were already in this situation, but also to extend it to police officers who met the age and career requirements, but who had not yet applied for it. Subsequently, the law of 18 December 2015 made it possible to settle the situation of the police officers who had permanently lost the benefit of leaving the early pension by allowing them either to value a period of non-activity prior to the pension or to perform suitable work. Today, in accordance with the October 2015 budget notifications, the government proposes that the pension savings generated as a result of these two bills be fully returned to the police areas in order to fund the non-activity and adapted work plans of their members. The planned budgets will be 29 million in 2016 to reach 36.8 million in 2019. They will cover not only the salaries of these police officers, but also the holiday fee, the year-end premium and the employer's contributions. Payment to the zones will be made on a quarterly basis. We are aware that the decisions that followed the July 2014 ruling of the Constitutional Court will have a budgetary impact on the police areas. The Government therefore wished to be able to provide a concrete response to this additional difficulty. I would like to point out, as the Minister of Pensions did very well in committee, that the responsibilities do not fall on this government, since these are the consequences of a decision of the Constitutional Court, that this government has found a solution for the police officers who met the age and career requirements in order to qualify for an early pension. Finally, this government takes its responsibilities by handing over the savings made by the National Pension Office to the police and local authorities. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a pragmatic and sensible solution which will certainly help to relieve the finances of the police areas, which is obviously not negligible. It also seems to me that this is a good compromise, otherwise the charge would have been entirely in the hands of the police. My group will therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u130	Mr President, it is not because I come to the gallery that I will be very long. Don't worry, Minister. Nevertheless, I wanted us to take action that, since two legislatures, our pension system has been particularly badly affected, and that careers that were recognized at risk or in heavy trades are no longer so today. This is the case with police careers, following a previous pension reform, voted by the majority of the then-warnings, which led to recourse to the Constitutional Court and eventually to an expansion of the problem. You ensure the continuity of both governments with the MR, Mr. Bacquelaine. You are trying to fix, with your colleague Jambon, a problem that was created by a government of which you were a member. The problem is that you charge the bill to the municipalities themselves. Indeed, it is by preempting a pension fund that they constitute by their contributions that you fail to respond to the problem. The pension system will provide the Ministry of the Interior with the means from which the Minister of the Interior, through a royal decree, will pay part of the cost of the communes. I am saying a part of the cost, because the royal decree you mentioned at second reading makes it clear that things are going on within the limits of the appropriations available, and that if the appropriations from this levy on pension funds are insufficient, there will be the application of a system to the franc. The balance will remain to be financed by the municipalities themselves. In this respect, the government, you yourself as Minister of Pensions, even if you say you have made an effort, and the Minister of the Interior as far as it is concerned, is not fulfilling its commitments to bear the costs for the police areas 100% of the consequences of these reforms. I have asked the question in the Committee on Social Affairs and I wish to rest it here. Your party, and others present in this House, are arguing for the possibility of combining the functions of a Member of Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament or a mayor, including the president of a police zone, so that we know the local problems well and take them into account in the framework of the legislation adopted. Our point of view is different. We believe that a position of mayor, echevin or deputy deserves to be exercised at 100%. It is important enough for us to devote all our energy to it. Focusing on a single mandate does not prevent attention from being paid to what is happening. On the other hand, in this case, we take your majority and the few mayors and members of Parliament in flagrante delicto of measures taken again to the detriment of the local political level. We deplore him. The solution that you are proposing today, if it has the merit of existence, is imperfect because it is the municipalities themselves that have to bear the additional costs, through a levy from their pension fund, and that the cost is not guaranteed at 100%. We regret it. That is why we will not be able to fully support the bill under consideration today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u131	Ministers, this issue actually deals with the funding aspect of measures that have already been taken and which, to sum up, concern the entire response to the Constitutional Court's ruling on the career ends of certain members of the police. As much as we did not go back to this issue on the substantive decisions on the measures, since they had been taken on the other hand, so much we discussed in committee on the funding side. The fact that we cannot help repeating here is that the payment on the basis of savings in pensions, which will be attributed to local authorities, police areas, etc. will clearly be insufficient to offset the actual financial impact of the new scheme which has been decided on. The delta will obviously be the responsibility of the police and therefore of the local authorities. You have been asked several times, Minister, about the simulations and calculations made. You were asked whether the impact of this measure would be the responsibility of the local authorities. You told us that, basically, you couldn't anticipate the behaviour of the police officers. And you added that we could only do simulations of the figures in the table. These figures relate to a number of police officers who would potentially be affected by this measure and who would decide to take it. But, Minister, I have a number of official documents with simulations. And I can tell you that in 2019, when the impact will be greatest, the difference will be €2 million for the federal police and €20 million for the local police, of course, the police areas and therefore the local authorities. On 16 February 2016, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Security and Home Affairs wrote a friendly letter which I have here in front of me. We haven't been told about this in committee. For all colleagues, and especially for those in his group, I would like to read an excerpt from this letter. It's delicious! I quote: "I fully share your concerns which I have not failed to relay to my other colleagues in the government". This concerns funding for police areas and local authorities. "In fact, despite my efforts, I have unfortunately not been able to obtain the possibility of cumulating the annual savings realized on the pensions of the integrated police, which, according to the estimates made by my services, would have allowed to cover the full cost of the end-of-care scheme of the police officers and, for the whole period 2016-2019." Minister, I am very pleased to give you a copy of this letter because, in my opinion, you do not have it. In support of this, Mr Minister, despite what you have said in committee, proof in support, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you are indeed well aware, despite what you have said, that there will be an additional cost for police areas and local authorities. In this regard, there is scope for many discussions. Some proposals even seemed very reasonable to me from the local authorities, which suggested that from 2016 onwards they could receive all the savings, which would allow us, whether above or below, to be able to compensate for the years that will prove very difficult, and especially in 2019, since the impact for the local police will be 20 million euros. It was a proposal which, in substance, was entirely reasonable. Minister Jambon says it himself. At the beginning of 2015, the Minister of the Interior, in the press, made a specific commitment to ensure that the possible additional costs of these measures are borne by the federal government. He said it, he promised it. He didn't keep his word. The government is failing to deliver on the promise it made in 2015, even though there was an opportunity for the federal government to deliver on this promise in a reasonable and unburdened manner, We regret it. If we are in favour of the measure, we favour another way of avoiding delaying this burden to local authorities and police areas. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you to Mrs Thoron, who has clearly perceived the value of helping police areas in relation to the consequences of the 2014 Constitutional Court ruling. The purpose of this bill is very clearly to allow for better funding of police areas in terms of the expenses inherent in organizing career ends. This is, therefore, very positive, since we are clearly providing funding. I heard Mrs. Ben Hamou, who seemed to regret that the consolidated pension fund was being punctured. We don't, of course. Simply, we take the savings that are realized, since these pensions will not be paid. If they were, the Fund should use that money for that purpose. However, this is not the case, since people will either stay in business or in paid non-activity. So it is a matter of using these savings to help local police areas. That is the purpose of this bill. There's no other one. It is not a question of organising the financing of police areas. I have repeated this 20 times in committee, but it seems difficult to understand. For me, it is clear that a pension bill is not being used to fund police areas. That's not our role. The aim here is to transfer savings in pensions to the police sector. You could be very critical if we used the money from the Local Authorities Solidarity Fund to fund the police areas instead of the federal. Of course, it is not about that. I think you misunderstand the objective pursued. We are talking about total or partial compensation. I do not agree with Mrs Fonck's estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u133	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u134	But I do not agree; they are only estimates! Each administration obviously produces its own. We have to do the part. No one is able to say today whether or not a police officer will choose to remain active. To prejudge that they will all cease their activity is to consider that they have all decided now not to pursue their career. But that's not what I hear at all. I still know several police areas where many police officers continue to work after 54, 56 or 58 years. Some will obviously continue in suitable functions. I would point out to you that whenever a police officer continues to do so, it represents an economy for the police area. Otherwise, she should re-engage agents. It is therefore necessary to take into account all the aspects inherent in this new organization of career ends – which is, I repeat, the consequence of the decision of the Constitutional Court in July 2014. I would like to make the same point to Mr Gilkinet. He tells me about part of the cost: I don't know. We even planned that if it was too much, we wouldn't give everything. To say it's part of the cost, it's a petition in principle. It is possible to make it infinitely, but it is not based on anything. We are completely in the irrational. It is simply a matter of predicting that the pension savings we are going to achieve will not remain in the pension sector, but will be transferred as part of the financing of the police areas. That's it, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u135	Minister, of course, these answers do not satisfy me at all. What we must remember is that in the end you are taking transitional measures at the federal level, without taking your responsibilities because you will not pay them. They will be responsible for local authorities and police areas, which will have to bear the consequences of your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u136	Minister, as much as there will indeed be amounts that will be dedicated to police areas to compensate for the end-of-career arrangements, unfortunately there will be an impact and a carry-over on them. You say it's not based on anything, it's irrational. I reply that it is based on the position and opinion of Minister Jambon and the interior services. It is a bit easy, within a single government, to pretend not to know what one of its colleagues has done. Here, in this case, I have it black on white, signed by Minister Jambon himself. You practice the policy of ostrich, but in reality you postpone part of the charge to the local police areas and to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u137	Minister, I really regret that we were not able to analyse this bill in a joint Social and Home Affairs committee in the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Pensions. That would have made it possible to objectify the debate. Here, the government plays ping-pong. Evaluations carried out by the Inland FPS show that the funding you have planned, by recovering a share of the savings that could have been achieved by the police zones, is insufficient. You mentioned the assumption that the situation was resolved in the event that additional funding was too important, but you did not tell us what would happen if it were too small. This is the real question today for the police areas and for the municipalities which are subject to a series of measures decided by the Federal State, I am thinking in particular of the tax shift, and which lead them to financial difficulties. It is easy to go to the restaurant and leave the note to the person we invite. That is what is happening here! You are still talking about a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which is indeed the legal act that led to this extra cost, but the original problem is above all the act that was attacked at the Constitutional Court. This is a first pension reform voted by the previous government, with the parties of Mrs Fonck and Mrs Ben Hamou, who are calling on you with me today. So you also have to take on a share of responsibilities, Minister of Pensions. I repeat that the government is failing to meet its commitments to finance 100% of the additional costs associated with the consequences for the police areas of pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u138	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u139	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1751/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1751/7) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u140	Annex V.Part • 2 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1751/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u141	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 4. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u142	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u143	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Alain Top, Benoit Hellings, Dirk Van der Maelen, Wouter De Vriendt, David Geerts, Georges Dallemagne, Sébastian Pirlot. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1672/2) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1672/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur, Mrs Bellens, does not ask to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 February 2016, it was announced that the federal government is looking for a new chief of staff. The mandate of the current Chief of Staff, General Gerard Van Caelenberge, is not renewed. The Chief of Defense, the CHOD Chief of Defense is the highest authority under the Ministry. He's also Chief of Defense Staff. The task package shows that the CHOD has a huge responsibility in several areas. We therefore want the implementation of such a top-level function to be carried out in full transparency. The appointment of Mrs Catherine De Bolle as Federal Police Commissioner-General can serve as an example of transparency. Before that, hearings were held in the Federal Parliament. We therefore propose that the various candidates for the position of CHOD should present their views to Parliament. The Minister's strategic plan puts a lot of decisions first, but it is fundamental to know how the CHOD intends to implement these decisions in concrete terms. Choices will have to be made both in terms of personnel policy and the operation of the department, and in terms of current and planned investment. Although the direction of these choices is the subject of political decision-making, the way in which they are implemented is also extremely important. In order to ensure transparency, hearings are an absolute must. On the basis of these hearings, the Defence Committee can deliver an opinion to the government. This could form the basis for the assessment and for a clear ex post evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a question at the committee meeting about hearings, whether or not they were held behind closed doors. The support for this proposal should be strong, since four years ago the Minister's party asked exactly the same question. Or have times changed so quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u145	Mr President, I would like to reiterate the importance of such a text. The aim of this proposal is to ensure transparency in the procedure for appointing the Head of Defence. In a rule of law, it is up to the legislatures to control the recruitment of the armed forces. This is an essential regal function. A more frequent report to the House of Representatives also joins the recommendations of the working group on the examination of linguistic balance in the army. While the press has, once again, echoed the grip of our country's North on a whole series of key federal functions, including Defence, this debate seems essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u146	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u147	The next item is the vote on the appointment of four working members - including a Vice-President - of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision (Committee P). The next item is the election for the appointment of four effective members - including a Vice-Chair - of the Standing Committee on Police Services Oversight (Committee P). Since the president of the P Committee is Dutch speaking, the vice-president is French speaking. Since the Chairman of Committee P is Dutch-speaking, the Vice-Chairman is French-speaking. With the exception of the president, the P Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. The chairman except, Committee P comprises as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 4 February 2016. Nominations were announced in plenary on February 4, 2016. On 23 February 2016, the Committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I heard the eleven candidates for a working member's mandate. Mr André Frédéric reported on the hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 2 March 2016. On 23 February 2016, the Monitoring Committee of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R heard from the 11 candidates for effective membership. André Frédéric reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 2 March 2016. We must appoint two Dutch-speaking working members; one French-speaking Vice-President and one French-speaking member. We must appoint two effective Dutch-speaking members, one French-speaking Vice-President and one effective French-speaking member. The list of candidates was distributed to the banks under No. 1698/1. The list of candidates was distributed on the benches under No. 1698/1. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. The ballot is invalid if you enter more than four names. The ballot paper is invalid if you mention more than four names. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the secretaries to call from the names. I invite the secretaries to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u148	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. Colleagues, the votes must now be counted, and présence de Mmes Ben Hamou et Van Camp. I propose to suspend the meeting. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u149	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u150	Votes 132 Votants Blank or invalid [[14]] White or invalid Valid 118 Valables Perfect majority 60 Absolute majority
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u151	Mrs Régine Claeys received 0 votes. Ms. Régine Claeys won 0 votes. Mr Herman Daens received 109 votes. Mr Herman Daens won 109 votes. Mr Peter De Smet received 0 votes. Mr. Peter De Smet won 0 votes. Mr Frank Franceus received 0 votes. Mr Frank Franceus won 0 votes. Mrs Diane Reynders received nine votes. Diane Reynders won 9 votes. Mrs Dominique Reyniers received one vote. Ms. Dominique Reyniers obtained 1 vote. Mr Jan Van den Berghe received 0 votes. M. Jan Van den Berghe a obtenu 0 suffrage. Mr Jack Vissers received 99 votes. Mr. Jack Vissers won 99 votes. Since Mr Herman Daens received 109 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was declared a working member (N) of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr Herman Daens, having obtained 109 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is hereby declared an effective member (N) of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Since Mr Jack Vissers received 99 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed working member (N) of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Jack Vissers, having obtained 99 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is hereby declared an effective member (N) of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u152	Mr Antonio Caci received 0 votes. Mr Antonio Caci won 0 votes. Mr Guy Cumps received 118 votes. Guy Cumps won 118 votes. Mr Thibaut Vandamme received 0 votes. Mr Thibaut Vandamme obtained 0 votes. Since Mr Guy Cumps received 118 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed Vice-President of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Guy Cumps, having obtained 118 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is hereby declared Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u153	Mr Antonio Caci received 109 votes. Mr Antonio Caci won 109 votes. Mr Guy Cumps received 0 votes. Mr Guy Cumps won 0 votes. Mr Thibaut Vandamme received 9 votes. Mr. Thibaut Vandamme obtained 9 votes. Since Mr Antonio Caci received 109 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed working member (F) of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr Antonio Caci, having obtained 109 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is hereby declared an effective member (F) of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Appointed members will be invited to take an oath in my hands on Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u154	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 May 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches, No. 1849/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u155	- the bill (Mrs Sophie De Wit cs) establishing a second-line legal assistance fund, No. 1851/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u156	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) on the consequences of the destruction of Belgian development projects in the Palestinian territories by the Israeli Government, No. 1853/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u157	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 May 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches, No. 1849/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u158	- the bill (Ms. Sophie De Wit et al.) establishing a second line legal aid fund, No. 1851/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u159	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt et al.) on the follow-up to the destruction of Belgian development projects in the Palestinian territories by the Israeli Government, No. 1853/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u160	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u161	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 4 April 2014 regulating mental health professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health professions on the one hand and amending the law on the exercise of the health professions on the other, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 1848/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the Act of 4 April 2014 regulating the mental health care professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions was introduced, on the one hand, and amending the Act on the exercise of the health care professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 1848/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. First, I give the floor to the government for the motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u162	Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament, the Law of 4 April 2014, which provides for the recognition of mental health professions, will normally enter into force on 1 September 2016. However, the law is not feasible in certain respects. The amendments contained in this draft should therefore be adopted in order to respect the entry into force on 1 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u163	I propose that we take a stand on this request. I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u164	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law authorizing the Minister of Finance to grant loans to the Joint Resolution Board, No. 1850/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill authorizing the Minister of Finance to make loans to the Single Resolution Council, No. 1850/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Finance for the reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us concerns the banking union, which is a cornerstone of monetary union, and in particular the resolution fund, the so-called Single Resolution Fund, which stands at 55 billion by 2020, through contributions from the banks. It will be supplemented annually. The present draft law provides for the possibility, for each Member State, of granting a loan to that fund in the event of a calamity in the intermediate phase from now until 2023 that would necessitate an intervention by the Settlement Fund. That is the subject of this draft law, after the European authorities have asked us to put it right as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u166	I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1733/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1733/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1734/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1734/4) Mrs de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 2. (1540/6) Vote on Barbara's Amendment No. 3 Not cs to Article 2. (1540/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 131 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1540/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a project to Royal Assent. (1540/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u171	Vote on Amendment No 13 by Muriel Gerkens cs inserting a request 4/1(n). (448/6) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert a request 4/1(n). (448/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Degroote voted against. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (448/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (448/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u173	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u174	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 30. (1708/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Rule 30. (1708/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 50. (1708/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Rule 50. (1708/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u175	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 50 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 50 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 55. (1708/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Rule 55. (1708/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 55 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 55 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 57. (1708/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Rule 57. (1708/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 57 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 57 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 90 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1708/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1708/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1671/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1671/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u180	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 4. (1751/8) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 4. (1751/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 52 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Mrs Sarah Smeyers voted against. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 82 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1751/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1751/9) Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u182	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1672/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1672/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-26-54-plenair-ip112x.u183	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 2 June 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, June 2, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 2 June 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 2 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
