ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u1	Madam Minister, I also asked Minister Borsus this question, but I found very little response to the existing concerns. The use of antibiotics in animals had a slight decrease in the early years after the creation of AMCRA, but the latest results show an increase again and this is really alarming. You are working with Minister Borsus on a review of the RB, which also regulates the use of these critical antibiotics. The objectives of that plan are ambitious. The question is also addressed to you because, as Minister for Health, you have every interest in reducing the use of antibiotics in animals, especially the use of critical antibiotics for human use. I am asking you this question because as Minister of Health and General Practice, I believe you will not deny the importance of critical antibiotics for human use. Is it true that the proposed amendment to the Royal Decree will increase the stock period for the post-treatment of antibiotics? That period was five days and would now be increased to three weeks. What's the motive for this? I have already noticed that reference is made to some leaflets, which include a three-week treatment period, but even in those types of antibiotics, it is appropriate to have the veterinarian checked every five days for effectiveness. This argument is therefore not valid for me. Do you think it is justified that farmers have a three-week supply? Do you not believe that this undermines the objective of AMCRA? Which stakeholders are you, as Minister of Health, the Minister of Agriculture, the veterinarians, the pharma or the livestock farmers, asking for the stock period to be increased? As Minister of Health, do you agree? According to the RB, critical antibiotics should only be used in certain cases. However, these antibiotics should also be administered by a farmer, from his two-month stock and without sampling if this is not possible or in urgent cases. Do you think it is justified that farmers should be allowed to use those critical antibiotics on their own? I think this is an important back door. Do you understand that this would further jeopardise critical antibiotics in human medicine? Do you think it is possible that life-saving treatment would stop affecting people because of this overuse and uninhibited use in livestock farming? I see two loopholes here that undermine the objectives of AMCRA. Do you see this? Who has allowed the exception in order to be able to pass a sampling in urgent cases? Do you agree to the use of critical antibiotics in such cases? Do you not think that a prior sampling should always be carried out? What about the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Order of Veterinarians and the Agricultural Council? What does that advice say? Will this opinion be taken into account for a change? I have one more question about the reason for the revision of the Royal Decree. One would like to eliminate the exception for young animals, which was criticised by the European Commission. With regard to the registration of medicinal products, a new exception is now granted for calves and piglets. Do you think it is appropriate that this exception should be introduced so that we do not know of all slaughtered animals what medication they were treated with before they enter the food chain?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u2	Mrs Van Camp, I would like to, but until further notice, I am not the Minister of Agriculture. It is natural, of course, that we should work closely together on this issue. You will understand that my answer will be similar to the one you received from Minister Borsus, my colleague, on 27 January. I went to the European informal meeting in Amsterdam during the crocus holiday, which was precisely about the use of antibiotics. I had the pleasure of attending the discussion on antibiotic use in animals, including piglets and calves, with one of the people in the Borsus cabinet for two days. In fact, the draft royal decree you are referring to contains a revision of the Royal Decree of 23 May 2000 laying down special provisions on the acquisition, storage, prescription, supply and administration of medicinal products intended for animals by the veterinarian and on the possession and administration of medicinal products intended for animals by those responsible for the animals, i.e. farmers themselves. This is still the subject of consultation with the veterinarians, farmers and the three administrations concerned, namely the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, the BFSA and the DG4 of Public Health. The fight against antibiotic resistance is necessary and is therefore a priority for our country, because we score badly in this area, and that has also been clearly demonstrated at the European Assembly. Of course, the royal decision increases this battle, because the danger of such a high consumption of antibiotics is, of course, resistance in humans and animals. All data on the use of antibiotics will have to be transmitted to a central database. Now it does not exist, now we only know how many antibiotics are being sold, but we do not know who and how many are actually being given. Our Dutch colleagues are much stricter on the purchase of antibiotics, but we know that there is a very large purchase of antibiotics in our border region. We will then really be able to know which part of these antibiotics are consumed and injected or given. In a first phase, this will be done for vulnerable sectors, such as calves and calves, but also pigs and poultry, after which it will be extended. The use of critically important antibiotics is also subject to conditions. The preventive use, to which you refer, is prohibited unless it is intramammary use. At the same time, I am working with my colleague in charge of agriculture on a covenant with the parties concerned, which contains voluntary measures to achieve the objectives of AMCRA in terms of reducing the use of antibiotics, critical antibiotics and medicated feeds with antibiotics, i.e. food in which antibiotics have already been mixed. The current draft Royal Decree allows the veterinarian to prescribe or provide medicinal products for the treatment period which he or she considers necessary, albeit for a maximum of three weeks. This provision is stricter than European legislation, which does not really define a limit. So we want to strike a good balance between the responsibility of veterinarians, who are naturally competent to judge the duration of treatment required, and the possibility of abuse if no limits were set. Farmers may possess critically important antibiotics under veterinary supervision for two months, but only if the initial diagnosis of their veterinarian and the related analyses show that the classical antibiotics are not effective. In other words, the identified bacteria is resistant. Such resistance shall be justified and described. It is the same general condition imposed on veterinarians for the treatment of antibiotics. So this is a kind of entanglement. In urgent cases, the veterinarian may administer critically important antibiotics for each animal pending the results of the analysis of the sample. After all, you know that, as in human medicine, an analysis of a bacteria in a sample sample takes at least three days. That is a point on which we have not yet made any progress. For a cylindrical plate, it takes three days to read whether or not there is growth. This can only be done under conditions which are also much stricter than the current ones. Finally, there remains an exception to the mandatory entry of the treatment in the farm register for piglets and calves under one month of age. This has to do with the structure of livestock farming in our country, which requires more individually adapted treatments in the youngest animals. Compulsory registration of these cases long before slaughter would at present be disproportionate to the objective pursued. In addition, these data are available in the outgoing register of the veterinarian. At the end of January, my colleague responsible for agriculture received the opinions you were asking for from the National Agricultural Council and the Supreme Council of the Order of Veterinarians. It was taken into account in the draft which is now being prepared and which will be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. It is widely recognised by all actors that this new legislation and the covenant represents a major step forward in the fight against the excessive use of antibiotics and thus against the inevitable antibiotic resistance associated with them. We will also have reliable figures on the use of antibiotics up to the level of the company for the first time. We'll also know which vet uses which antibiotics. On the basis of these data, an initial evaluation of the new measures will take place approximately one year after the entry into force of these provisions. If this does not go in the right direction, there will be even stricter provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have already made clear my concerns about this in the question. I also informed Minister Borsus. It is true that the covenant and the KB are an improvement, but not with those two back gates. Fortunately, there is an evaluation and therefore we will be able to establish this objectively after a year. We will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u4	Madam Minister, this question concerns a Flemish decree of 28 June, which clearly states that operators who refuse access to a public place to people with an assistance dog can be prosecuted. For example, police services can act and report to the police. In hospitals this decree is often not followed, and those hospitals are under your jurisdiction. An opinion issued by the Supreme Health Council in 2004, which states that "the access of guide dogs to acute care facilities is prohibited unless counter-reported, motivated by the hospital hygiene committee of the institution concerned." I do not need to draw a picture that this often causes problems in hospitals, where the assistance dog is not allowed to go with his or her owner and that with all the consequences. However, these dogs are perfectly fine with vaccinations and dewormings and are very often controlled. This Flemish decree thus facilitates their access, because there is no demonstrable danger to hygiene. Are you aware of this problem? Have these messages reached you? Is it possible to draw the attention of hospitals, for example by means of a circular, to this problem, especially the Flemish hospitals, which have contacted us on the issue, to the decree and to the fact that they have to follow it? Does the High Health Council have any valid reasons, i.e. scientific studies, which show that the assistance dogs pose a danger in hospitals and to maintain this advice, which is contrary to current legislation, despite repeated questions from the sector? Is it not possible to start discussions with the Supreme Health Council so that they can adjust their advice on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u5	Mrs Van Camp, this is a problem which has been raised in this committee for many years and on which several parliamentary questions have already been raised in the past. It is clear that, in the context of the problem of assistance dogs in hospitals, two interests come into conflict with each other. On the one hand, there is the importance of non-discrimination of persons with disabilities and, on the other hand, the importance of patient safety and, more specifically, the importance of hygiene in an environment where many people live with sometimes reduced immunity. As regards the opinion of the Supreme Health Council, it is important to recall that the 2004 opinion was further reinforced by a similar opinion of 2006, which dealt with the beneficial or otherwise effects of the presence of pet animals in healthcare establishments, which was reaffirmed in the letter No 9156 of 2014. The content of these recommendations is in line with what has been communicated to the competent authorities and to the health care authorities. Since 2006, there has been no recent new information that allows us to question the actual content of both the above mentioned documents. The scientific arguments to prohibit the access of pet animals to acute care establishments are based on the notions of real risk derivatives that have been well identified and described for infectious diseases that are transmitted in repeated contacts between animals and persons in a poor state of health already in treatment and whose immune system has been weakened. In view of the identified risks, therefore, the High Health Council still considers that access of assistance dogs and other pet animals to acute care establishments should be prohibited, unless otherwise and justified opinion of the hospital hygiene committee of the institution concerned. In the event of a derogation from the prohibition, it shall be the responsibility of the management of the institution, on the advice of the Committee on Hospital Hygiene, to take appropriate measures to ensure that the animal's access to hospital is properly managed and, in particular, to establish a regulatory procedure to minimise the risk of transmission of infectious diseases from the animal to a patient. This Regulation shall, inter alia, describe which areas are accessible to the animals and which are the authorised access and contact modalities. It should be noted that the fact that an assisted dog is okay with its vaccination and is housekeeping does not mean that there can be no risk of infection in an acute care facility where patients with reduced immunity are staying. Scientific references on this subject can be provided. Given the current scientific evidence at our disposal and the High Health Council in the last letter of 2014, I do not think that a new opinion would make much sense. In addition, the existing advice allows hospitals to develop their own policy in case a assistance dog should be admitted to a certain department for a patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u6	Thanks. I look forward to your scientific references. I haven't found them yet, so I'll be sure to look at them thoroughly when they're delivered to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u7	Madam Secretary, this is a short question about sugary soft drinks. A while ago I read in an interview in the Gazette of Antwerp that the sugar tax on non-sugary soft drinks has to do with adverse influences on the teeth. You said in that interview that sugar substitutes have an equally detrimental effect on the teeth. However, scientific research was carried out into the influence of drink on the teeth and it shows that sugary sparkling soft drinks have a much more detrimental effect on the teeth than non-sugary sparkling soft drinks with a flavor, effervescent water and flat water. Do you know these results? What is the basis of your ruling that sugar substitutes would have an equally detrimental effect on the teeth? Another important factor is weight and health. Is that a factor that was taken into account when drawing up the tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u8	Mrs Van Camp, I would point out that the drafting of this tax was a common competence with your party colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt, and that you may ask him your question as well. It really wasn't easy. There is a lot of research available that demonstrates the damaging influence of sugary soft drinks on the teeth. The focus on the impact of artificially sweetened drinks is more recent. A number of studies show that no significant difference is actually observed between the erosive potential of sugary drinks and otherwise sweet drinks. That's why I said they have an equally detrimental effect on the teeth. Both categories have equally high concentrations of acids. It's like the repeated exposure to acids that causes the tooth erosion. The sugar content is therefore different in nature, but it concerns the acids contained in it. That's what I mentioned. Tooth erosion is not only more common, it is also more common in young patients and children. Since 2000, numerous studies have been published in international journals. Most studies relate to children and young adolescents, because at their age erosion is strongly linked to the lifestyle. A 2010 study in 2 251 Icelandic children showed that at the age of 12, 16% had at least one affected tooth. At the age of 15, that was 31 %. The figures and teeth that are first affected vary depending on the country and age of the children, but there is also the factor of the evaluation method used. In fact, we are finding the same thing. When an erosion of milk teeth is observed, it also continues at worrying speed on the final teeth. As far as your last question is concerned, we are indeed establishing a strong correlation between the consumption of artificially sweetened soft drinks and the development of type 2 diabetes. You know that half a million people in our country have been affected by type 2 diabetes. Some of them, about half of them, don't even know it yet. In 2013, a large-scale study by the French Institut national de la santé and de la recherche médicale, carried out in 1 188 women from the Cohorte E3N, confirmed a link between sugar-free or sugar-free drinks and type 2 diabetes. The Étude Épidémiologique auprès de femmes de la Mutuelle Générale de l'Éducation Nationale is a prospective cohort study among French women, born between 1925 and 1950, which have been followed since 1990. The correlation with diabetes identified in this study appears to be greater in diet drinks than in normal sugary drinks. This connection has been sought to explain, inter alia, the increased sense of sugar which would be maintained by consumers of these beverages and which leads to greater sugar intake through other products. In any case, it is advisable not to consume too much sugary and sweet drinks, and to encourage the use of water as the only necessary drink. It is also recommended that no more than two such diet drinks be used per day. It has also been shown that the human body does not always notice the difference between the sugar and the fake sugar when drinking a diet drink, resulting in an insulin peak. After this peak of insulin there is a feeling of hunger, especially a taste for sweetness, because the body gives an abnormal response to those drinks. Their influence is also investigated, including in diets but mainly in type 2 diabetes. Indeed, those concerned are less likely to reach their target weight, just because the consumption of such drinks disrupts their insulin metabolism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. These acids can, of course, be equal in vibrant sugary and non-sugary drinks. In the sugar drinks, the acidity of the teeth will only be reduced by the sugar present. In addition to scientific references, it is clear that vibrant sugary beverages are more harmful to teeth, even in terms of acid reduction of teeth. I will also be pleased to request and look at those scientific references, including the link between weight and diet drinks and type 2 diabetes. It would surprise me greatly and with me the dietists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u10	In reply to my question on nasal sprays, you told me that you asked the CTG's office to clear the list of recoverables. We are very pleased that we are following up on the problem that has been identified, which goes much further than the nasal sprays, as you mentioned in your previous reply. You said the investigation is still ongoing. It's really the deadline for that CTG agency to clear that list. What savings do you expect to achieve? When exactly do you expect to be able, as a minister, to amend that list of recoverable funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u11	Mrs Van Camp, the investigation of the CTG office has now been completed. The aim is to achieve a savings based on this in 2017, as included in the Future Pact for the patient with the pharmaceutical industry. It concerns a number of products, where it is suspected that it could raise around EUR 30 million. The Agency is already carrying out regular investigations into medicines or classes of medicines that can also be saved. On the basis of this research, I may also propose to the CTG to carry out a review of a class, for example from class 4 to class 1 or vice versa. It is difficult to determine exactly when the list will be modified. When an investigation is completed and a proposal is submitted to the CTG, nine months will pass before the CTG procedure is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for these specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u13	Madam Minister, this question concerns the monitoring of mental health care. Recently, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care published its report on the performance of Belgian health systems. On the basis of several indicators, the report tries to investigate the performance in its entirety. That report also included a part about mental health care. The report warns against a number of limitations of the indicators that give a picture of the performance in mental health care. A number of relevant indicators such as case management could not be used due to limitations in current data structures. According to the KCE report, performance monitoring in mental health care remains a major challenge because the existing data systems do not allow sufficient follow-up of the patient's full path of care, including the outpatient care. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a few brief questions about this. What is your view on this? Do you share the comment of the KCE on missing relevant indicators? How will you, and how can you, improve the data systems so that a better picture of the performance in mental health care can be formed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u14	I have indeed taken note of the report of the Belgian Health Care Centre on the performance of Belgian health systems. The principle of organising a joint survey in all areas of mental health care, regardless of their competence, has already been submitted to and also accepted by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health of 24 June 2013. A technical working group was also set up to draw up a proposal on the content of this joint survey on the basis of the opinion of the National Council for Hospital Facilities of 12 December 2013. This technical working group has recently completed a proposal which is currently being discussed with the Länder in the Inter-Kabinette Working Party on Mental Health. We are looking at whether a protocol agreement can be concluded between the various authorities on the content of the common survey, after which it is up to each government to integrate this into the regulatory framework within its own competence. In short, the preparatory work is done. The search is ahead for discussion with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u15	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. That's very good news. Do you have a look at the timing? When can we expect that protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u16	It is not enough for this Inter-Ministerial Conference, which will take place on 21 March, but we will work towards the next Inter-Ministerial Conference. It will take place in the month of June. We are trying to keep at least three in one year, and possibly a few more electronic ones, which makes us the most active Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u17	We are also the most active Members of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u18	That's good news. For example, MEPs also have a target date for the submission of new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u19	Madam Minister, I have already questioned you a few times about the challenges of implementing Article 107 and the unequal distribution in some parts of our country. Then I also asked you about your intentions to think about a future focus on sixty-five plus-five under Article 107. In committee, you referred to a communication of 25 January to the umbrella organisations and the sector on the reform of mental health care. You also told the KCE to carry out a need study on the ageing of the population and the role of Article 107. Madam Minister, first of all, what was the content of the communication of 25 January 2016 to umbrella organisations and the sector? Secondly, when will the need study of the KCE on the focus on sixty-five+five under Article 107 be launched? What's the timing for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u20	Ms Hufkens, as the reform of mental health concerns a common project with the Regions and the Communities, the Inter-Kabinets Working Group on Mental Health agreed to communicate jointly with the umbrella organisations on 25 January 2016. Among other things, consideration was given to the current situation of the networks, the grey or blank zones and the mobile teams. Information was also provided on the possible involvement of general hospitals under Article 107 and attention was given to the integration of crisis units, including case management for persons in a mental crisis situation and for persons in a psychoactive resource-related crisis situation. As the aim is to continue to involve umbrella organisations and the sector in further developing the deepening and broadening of the reform, a call has already been made for participation in the establishment of a consultative body. A number of proposals have already been received. The composition of the consultative body and the planning of its operationalisation were discussed. The reform of mental health care in Belgium is implemented according to age categories. The adult networks were launched in 2011 and last year we started the networks for children and young people. I have asked the Knowledge Centre for a study of the specific needs for the provision of mental health services to the target population of the elderly. I understand that the study has been accepted by the Knowledge Centre, but I do not know when the study will be completed. However, it has been noted that you are interested in this. When she's done, we'll let you know. It is certainly an important issue, because the ageing population also affects more elderly people with diseases that we can bring into mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u21	Madam Secretary, I can only endorse that. Ageing causes more and more elderly people to be at risk of mental health problems. I'm very glad you knocked on the door at the KCE before that. Involving the umbrella organisations in the consultation is also good news. We all have an interest in ensuring the full implementation of Article 107. It is therefore important that all organisations are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I would like to refer once again to the recent performance report of the KCE. Not only does this show the difficult data processing, but also that the consumption of antidepressants is rising in our country. This is not really surprising, but the average consumption in Belgium is 71 doses per 1 000 inhabitants per day, significantly higher than the European average of 64.6. In addition, the KCE notes significant regional differences between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. In addition to high prescribing behaviour, the KCE notes that certain general guidelines are not being followed. Most depressions require at least three months of use of antidepressants, but 47.4% of the 2013 cases did not follow that guideline. Madam Minister, in this context I have the following questions. What is your view on the performance report of the KCE on mental health care and specifically on the prescription behaviour of antidepressants? How do you explain this rising consumption, especially in our country? More importantly, what measures will you take to reduce this trend? Finally, how do you evaluate the failure to comply with the directive on the use of antidepressants for at least three months? Will you take action in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u23	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, the performance report sees many encouraging trends in Belgian health care, but there are still three trends that all health and welfare ministers in our country must take seriously. A first trend is the high rate of suicide, which is 18 per 100 000 inhabitants in our country, which is 50% more than the European average. This afternoon, I was going to speak before a committee in the European Parliament about the needs and the reasons why we should also focus more on mental health care. A second trend is a worrying increase in the number of recordings in psychiatry. The third trend is the increasing use of antidepressants. There are multiple causes for the increased use of antidepressants. I do not really think that these causes are Community. First of all, there is the smooth access to that medication, including the smooth financial accessibility for the patient who sometimes asks for it. Therefore, I will ask the Psychofarmaca platform of the FPS Public Health to conduct a targeted campaign for general practitioners, to treat only those patients with antidepressants for whom that is appropriate. There are, after all, two phenomena. On the one hand, there are patients who may not always need antidepressants, but still take antidepressants. On the other hand, some patients are not treated with it, whereas those patients should just be treated with antidepressants; so there is also partial undertreatment. Both phenomena are problematic. The directive to give antidepressants for at least three months is not being sufficiently followed. Mostly short-term use. Since the use stops so quickly, one cannot talk about the correct indication, namely a severe degree of depression or endogenous depression. The less severity, the more spontaneous and rapid a natural improvement can be expected and the more efficiency gains can be made for the patient. To do so, the platform Psychofarmaca with the aforementioned campaign has to make a start, because apparently the previous message given on this issue has not been strong enough. Patients don't know if they're taking antidepressants, they should take them for at least three months. Nor do all prescribers know that when prescribing antidepressants they should tell the patient to take them for at least three months. There's still a lot of work to be done there. I'm counting on the Public Health Office to give the people the right, powerful signals. We must continue to do so at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u24	The focus on mental health cannot be large enough today. The number of telephone calls to the suicide line has even increased, and that is very disturbing. You have already shown with the young people's plan that you are absolutely working on it, as with your plan to campaign with the general practitioners together with Psychofarmaca. It seems to me that too often, for reasons of convenience, antidepressants are prescribed, if the general practitioner does not know what to do and he simply gives antidepressants in the hope that it will improve quickly. If one does not take them for three months, but stops faster and then starts again, that also involves risk derivatives. I'm looking forward to that campaign and I'm gonna keep following up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u25	Minister, cataract operation is one of the most common operations in Belgium, with almost 120,000 operations per year. These are usually performed in day hospital by an ophthalmologist. However, a much more economical alternative lies in the practice of this intervention in extramural centres. There are currently some 30 of them in the country. This practice was authorized by INAMI. When it is extramural, this practice obviously complies with very strict specifications and standards in terms of sterility, in particular. All of this is therefore quite possible and legal. According to my information, the cost of carrying out this operation in hospital would be 1,132 euros, whereas the same extra-mural service would cost only 807 euros, a great saving that could be achieved. We get a difference of 325 euros, which, for example, compared to half of the annual operations, would save almost 20 million euros. In addition to this significant economy in a context of budgetary difficulties and savings, it should also be recalled that the quality of care for patients is the same in extramural centres. Minister, my questions are as follows. What is your position with regard to this practice, which is still very low since there are barely 30 centres at the country level? Do you recognize these figures and the possibility of this economy? I've had many contacts with ophthalmologists who have confirmed these numbers to me. Are you considering promoting these interventions in extramural centres? If your answer is negative, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u26	Mr Scourneau, since 1 May 2009, the provisions referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the nomenclature of care services, except in cases of force majeure, requiring interventions of a value equal to or greater than K120 or N200 or L200 to be carried out in a hospital institution approved by the competent authority and comprising at least one service C or D, shall not apply to the services referred to in Article 14 of the nomenclature. These outpatient services are to be performed in an extramural environment, which meets the architectural standards of a day surgical hospital function described in articles 2 to 6 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1997, laying down the standards to be met by the day surgical hospital function in order to be approved. They should be performed under local or topical anaesthetic, not requiring sedation of the patient, reception needs or direct monitoring by nurses. Cataract interventions are therefore available in an extramural centre meeting the standards described above. One of the arguments put forward during the revision of the nomenclature was the possibility of savings for compulsory health care and benefit insurance, particularly in the case of hospital days and day hospital packages. According to the information available to me, the costs of cataract surgery performed in an extramural centre would be borne by the patient. For example, I have listed below the costs included in the detailed invoice of an ophthalmological centre for the operation of cataracts with an intraocular lens and dating back to 2013, except for the code of the operation itself and any supplements resulting from the doctor's non-convention. Indeed, the ophthalmologists who work in these extramural centres are not well-conventionalized. For the depreciation and maintenance of the Class 1 operating room, a total of 190 euros is required. For the surgical package phacoemulsification, it is necessary to count 170 euros. For the Zeiss operating microscope with monitor and depreciating recording, as well as maintenance, it is necessary to count 72 euros. For the instrument box related to cataract surgery (Huco, Switzerland), it is necessary to count 37 euros of depreciation and maintenance. For Phaco Blade Available, 16 euros; for viscoelastic products and viscogel+ syringes, 52 euros. For pharmaceuticals and parapharmaceuticals such as iso-betadine, Tropicol, Phenylephrine, BNX Minims, Linisol, Pilocarpine, Okacin, Proflox, Ocal, De Icol, Anallergic Tape for the eyeshield, you must count 28 euros all inclusive. Pre- and post-operative room and stay equipped with wall medical fluids: 110 euros; instrumentist's work in the operating room: 140 euros; technician's work in the operating room: 40 euros. The total represents significantly more than the 350 euros of savings indicated in your question. This is a 2013 invoice. It is therefore up to the patient to make his or her choice taking into account the costs being borne by him or her when the procedure is performed extramural. It is obvious that I do not have to encourage a practice where a multiple of insurance savings is charged to the patient. The patient's free choice for the caregiver is essential to me. If someone wants to pay more in an extra-muro centre, because he chooses to pay more, then that is good for me, but the medical treatment must be of the same quality. On the other hand, there must be the same quality for someone in a hospital who has the same... It's not my choice. It's the patient who makes his choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u27	You are always welcome on the Committee on Health, Mr Scourneau. You will notice that you will receive comprehensive and technical answers here. I'll give you the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's pretty technical, it's true. You gave all the prizes, we could have added a price for coffee. I understand that you are sensitive to the patient's freedom to make his or her choice, but the spirit of the question was whether, in the event that one technique costs social security less in one place than another, it would not be appropriate to encourage that. I respect your choice, which I share in part, but if we could hope for an economy on the operation, it was not inconsistent to try this formula or to present it under its best auspices. I'll send this information to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u29	Minister, as you know, the 2005 WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control calls on its signatories to be transparent and accountable in their relations with the tobacco industry. An investigation was opened by the European Ombudsman, Emily O'Reilly, following a complaint lodged by the NGO Observatory of Industrial Europe concerning the European Commission's transparency policy on tobacco lobby issues. Last October, the European Ombudsman, Emily O'Reilly, described this policy as "inadequate, unserious, and unsatisfactory". In her view, the Commission knowingly ignores the guidelines of this Convention by closing its eyes on the influence of tobacco giants on its various branches. She stressed that only DG Health had acceded to the Convention, while all branches of governance fell under its purview. The Ombudsman had then made a series of recommendations to the Commission, which had until 31 December last to respond to them, but which apparently did not act on them. Minister, discussions on an effective tobacco control policy and plan have been intensifying in our country for several weeks now. I hope that we will have a debate in this Parliament in the near future. While the fight against tobacco must be unwavering, while it is known that industry is prepared to do everything possible to weaken it and counter the various strategies developed by the public authorities, the European Commission's refusal to respond positively to the European Ombudsman's requests for more transparency is of course worrying. He can only cast suspicion against the strike force of the tobacco industry. It seems to me that this issue of the European Commission's lack of transparency vis-à-vis the tobacco lobby is also important and should be denounced by the government. Minister, do you consider it necessary to improve the European Commission's transparency policy towards lobbyists, as the European Ombudsman recommends? If so, what transparency measures do you think are needed in this matter to govern the relationship between the Commission and these lobbyists? Has this item been put or will it be put on the agenda of the next meeting of the Council of the European Union in charge of health?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u30	Madam Minister, I would like to add that a committee meeting is normally scheduled next Tuesday to discuss these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u31	Madam President, I also thought that all the proposals on the table would be discussed. Mr Senesael, as you know, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control deals with all aspects of tobacco control, including relations between public authorities and the tobacco industry. It therefore applies not only to Belgium but also to the European Commission, since the European Union has also ratified the text. On the basis of Article 5.3 of the Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention, guidelines on trade between government and industry were approved. These directives do not have the force of law. In practice, therefore, these are recommendations to the parties in order to best implement Article 5.3. Discussions on the implementation of this Convention and Directive are generally held at the Conference of the Parties (COP) and during the prior European coordination to define a common position for the negotiations held there. The next Conference of the Parties will be held in November 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your response to explain the course of work. I understand, therefore, that we will have to wait until March 2016. Nevertheless, I remain concerned that, as at 31 December, recommendations had been made and responses had to be made to them. To the best of my knowledge, no answer has been given in this context. In any case, I hope that for the month of November we will be able to try to clarify the situation and that you will be in a position to obtain all the necessary explanations and information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 9371 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u34	Madam Minister, quite extensive hearings have been held in the Committee on Justice about lifeless children and about parents' requests to report to civil society services. During these hearings, several aspects of guidance were also discussed, which parents of lifeless children may have to deal with and on which questions exist. After all, there is a need for specific guidance, even for lifeless children. Firstly, there is a demand for a multidisciplinary approach, which allows parents to receive appropriate guidance after the woman concerned has given birth, as is the case with high risk pregnancies, where there is guidance before, during and after childbirth. Apparently this is also a question because of the RIZIV there are not a lot of efforts to provide support to hospitals that, if I may put it that way, take aftercare for parents of lifeless children. Not all hospitals and certainly not all materials have the necessary resources to take care of the aftercare and the matter is not included in the Maternal Intensive Carelabels either. On the other hand, guidance and support is provided on the basis of a convention in case a child died early, i.e. within 18 months of birth. Secondly, there are questions about the provision of information to parents with a lifeless child. This concerns information on how they can make a declaration of birth and whether or not to bury it. It is also about information about what is happening with and the treatment of the remains, about the autopsy or a possible post-mortem examination. The practice in this field would vary from hospital to hospital. Madam Minister, what benefits do RIZIV have in terms of the costs of accompaniment and support, including for parents of lifeless children? Can they appeal to the same psychosocial counselling as parents of children who died early? Madam Minister, if that is not the case, do you think that more resources can be made available for this? What are the guidelines for hospitals in relation to the provision of information to parents on their rights in the field of dignified burial, cremation or registration in civil status? Are certain protocols applicable in some hospitals, which could be generalised, or are they already generally applicable? Are there guidelines to be followed if the cause of death of the child is unknown? Can parents propose a post-mortem investigation or do such an investigation of their own motion, which we are told by some, if the cause of death is unclear? Do the hospitals do that automatically? Can a hospital ignore that question? What guidelines are there about treating the remains with dignity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u35	Mrs Becq, in the event of an unexpected and medical unexplained death of a child under 18 months of age, compulsory health insurance also provides for compensation for the psychosocial support of parents and the family in the first acute phase, as well as compensation for the performance of an autopsy on the deceased child. The compulsory health insurance also intervenes in the possible transport of the child to the hospital that would perform the autopsy. As you pointed out, this is regulated by a convention with the hospitals. The target group envisaged by the Convention is newborns or infants who have died, possibly due to the death of the cradle. The lifeless born children are not covered by the agreement. Compulsory health insurance does not currently pay specific compensation for the psychosocial support of parents of lifeless born children by analogy with the aforementioned convention. The parents can, of course, call on the gynecologist, the general practitioner or a psychiatrist, whose consultations and psychotherapy are largely covered by compulsory health insurance under the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. In the case of hospitalisation, the fees and day-care charges charged during hospitalisation can also cover psychosocial support to some extent. In the case of outpatient support, a midwife can include medical and psychosocial support. No distinction shall be made between a live or stillborn child for the classification of the midwife. Post-natal supervision and care at home for complications by a midwife are refunded. All that is required is, of course, a medical certificate from a physician. In the case of a lifeless birth after a term of more than 180 days, that is what is called six months, an act of inanimately declared child must be drawn up. The child is therefore entered in the death records. There's an obligation to bury or cremation. The mother is entitled to social benefits such as maternity leave, a birth grant and maternity allowance. In the case of a lifeless birth at a term of pregnancy of less than 180 days, there is no legal document. There is therefore no report. There are no burial obligations either. From 22 weeks of pregnancy or a birth weight of 500 grams the birth must be recorded. Cremation is permitted. Burying is possible on request, from a certain period of pregnancy, but that period depends on the Region in which one resides. In the Flemish Region, each municipality must have a space in the cemetery to bury prematurely born children from a 12-week pregnancy. This is the case in the Brussels-Capital Region from 16 weeks and in Wallonia from 14 weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u36	Madam Secretary, my question was not about the arrangement. My question was whether hospitals give information about this to the parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u37	Yes, of course that information is given to the parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u38	Is that what all hospitals do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u39	That information, including whether or not parents should report, shall be provided. The way in which the funeral takes place is regulated at the level of the municipality. In the case of a pregnancy of less than 180 days, the mother is not entitled to social benefits. Of course, she is entitled to sick leave, but not maternity leave. Such pregnancy is considered a late miscarriage. As regards the question of an autopsy, in case of an unexpected and medical unexplained death of a child under 18 months of age, the legal representative of the deceased child may turn to a hospital with convention to perform an autopsy on the deceased child, but that convention also does not apply to lifeless children. The recognition standards of hospitals specifically state that, where there is no administrative or legal obstacle, perinatal death must be the subject of an autopsy. This is set out in index N under point II, "Functional standards', paragraph 2. Finally, if pregnancy is less than 88 days and parents do not want cremation or burial, and only after performing an autopsy when parents allow it, the surpluses in hospital are treated such as human body parts or organs of human origin. Then the hospital will take care of the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u40	Thank you for the very comprehensive answer again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u41	As far as resources are concerned, I have no idea what that would cost. However, I will take your request for more resources to the negotiating table tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u42	I'm particularly asking about the hospital's approach. The testimonies raise the question whether each hospital has its way of working, or whether there is any streamlining?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u43	The covenant applies to all hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u44	Mrs Becq, could you perhaps conclude your replies? If you have any more questions, you're always welcome. We've been working on this question for almost 15 minutes. There are other questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u45	The covenant applies to children who die early, i.e. children under 18 months of age. However, the covenant does not apply to those born without life. I understand that you include a generalisation of the covenant in the discussions, as there is also a demand for additional financial resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u46	That is why I take your question with me to the discussions for more financial resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u47	Mrs Muylle is not present and therefore her question No. 9618.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u48	Madam Minister, I have a specific question about the RN4CAST study which shows that not only the number but also the level of training are important factors for nurses to ensure the quality of care in a department. This is mainly about a good mix with a higher qualification of nurses to reduce the cost of the hospital stay. The European directive on the title of nurse actually offers us an excellent opportunity to look at the quality of care and to take it to an even higher level. The fact that we can use all our hands in the care and that the HBO5 nurses must also continue to exist is completely out of discussion. The content of the title is separate from that, both in terms of title and in terms of the exercise of the profession. You replied to previous questions about the HBO5 programme that you would not distinguish in the titles and that both HBO5 and Bachelor's programmes would lead to the title of nurse. This has a number of implications which I would like to present to you. If there are two courses, one of three and one of four years, leading to exactly the same title, then you de facto set the level of nursing at level 5 and actually even at level 4, given the existence of certified nurses in Wallonia. This goes against the European trend to raise the level of qualifications of nurses. Compared to our neighbouring countries and even with Europe as a whole, Belgium may be the only country where this level is still applied to nurses. How can you justify this? You say that a bachelor's degree at level 6 of four years and a three-year HBO5 course, as well as an HBO4 course in Wallonia, will lead to the same title and qualification. How do you argue that? Why don't you provide a differentiation between HBO4, HBO5 and Bachelor, so patients have clarity about who's taking care of them? I am thinking in particular of the implementation of the task. Which employer will still attract and pay bachelor nurses, knowing that the bachelors are more expensive and according to the standards no distinction will be made between the two groups, which nevertheless have different profiles in the care? What will you do with the senior bachelors? Will they retain the student status or receive a provisional visa so that they can be employed and included in the standards? The three-year Bachelor's programme is being increased to a four-year training course in order to comply with the Directive. How can HBO5 training stay at three years and still comply with that EU directive? Do you perhaps intend to distinguish between Flemish HBO5 nurses and European bachelor nurses? How will you justify this to the European Commission? Who determines whether the directive has been complied with for the HBO5 people and the bachelors? Finally, why was it not immediately examined whether the current Bachelor's degree programme of four years could not be taken to the master's level? I do not think there is any paramedical title for which the programme lasts four years, which does not lead to the master's level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u49	Mrs Van Camp, as you know, it is not my intention to ensure that the HBO5 training nurse will disappear in the future. I believe that we need all the influx possibilities to meet our demand for nurses in the future. My main concern is that in our facilities we have well-trained nurses who can provide autonomous care and, where appropriate, manage care professionals. The question is therefore not what level of education or type of education higher education, vocational education or training for social promotion will be approved, but what level of study will meet the European criteria. In addition, the power to decide which studies and programmes should be organised in order to meet these criteria lies with the Communities. You know that this has already led to discussions in both Communities, both with Mrs Crevits and with Mr Marcourt. The Inter-Kabinette Working Party on Health at the Inter-Ministerial Conference met on 25 February and 3 March precisely to discuss the subject of the transposition of the European Directive and its impact on our nurses and other training courses. I take this opportunity to say once again that I have no intention of creating a new health profession, a kind of intermediate level with powers situated between the care professional and the nurse. I come to the proposals to distinguish between nurses on the basis of compliance with the 2013 European Directive. According to my services, it is legally impossible to motivate the exercise of nursing to have two titles with equal powers, one of which meets the minimum requirements and the other does not. Then there is the aspect of euro mobility as the only distinguishing factor in the respective competences between the two titles. There's no way to defend that either. Although the directive is indeed aimed at promoting the free movement of persons, particularly nurses, the underlying aim is clearly to provide quality guarantees to employers and patients who call on nurses from other Member States, something that is more and more common. As mentioned above, the transposition texts for the European Directive 2013/55 of 20 November 2013 on the recognition of professional qualifications were sent to the Council of State. We have not yet received a final opinion from the Council of State. It is therefore being verified and further adjustments are being made. Of course, we may have to adapt it again if we get the final opinion of the Council of State. In addition, work is being carried out on a function differentiation for nurses who can continue to grow in specialist and clinical expert functions. The expert group you refer to is an initiative of academics in nursing sciences. They have set up a university federal working group to explain their position on the possible role of nurses at a master's level. I got that note. At the Federal Council there is a working group on the functional differentiation for nursing in its entirety. I therefore asked the Council in writing a few weeks ago to continue its work on functional differentiation in nursing in preparation for the revision of the co-ordinated law of 15 May 2015, known as KB No. 78. Finally, the Council was asked for an opinion on the whole of the reform of the legislation on the exercise of health professions and healthcare practice, in particular in the context of interdisciplinarity and in relation to other practitioners, as provided for in the above-mentioned law, and in particular doctors. I cannot answer your questions about the organization of nursing education, because this is a competence of the Communities. If the Communities wish to organise a training at the level of master in accordance with the Directive, these masters will be recognized as general nurses. With regard to your question about the final year's Bachelor's programme and the possible organisation of a dual-learning model, the inter-federal consultation on this is still ongoing. The opportunity test has yet to take place. This will be for the next few weeks or months, depending on how smoothly everything goes. The different Communities do not always take the same view. In any case, we will try to adapt a sleeve to the problem of the senior Bachelor's. I believe that we must be pragmatic. There's a shortage of nurses in the workplace. We must, of course, guarantee the quality of training and we must ensure that those involved have a perspective. For the patient, however, it is particularly important that the nurse has the necessary skills. And that's my job. All organisational obligations to transpose the European Directive fall within the competence of the Ministers for Education. In Flanders there is one Minister for Higher and Primary Education, in Wallonia there is a Minister for Higher and a Minister for Primary Education. We'll be in touch with them, of course. Everyone's doing their job. However, this is not the easiest European directive to be transposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u50	Madam Minister, I do not think that there is a question of creating a new profession, but rather of the differentiation of functions, the packages of tasks and the possible adaptation of CAB No. 78. We can learn lessons from the Dutch example. They have indeed submitted a dossier to work with a primary nurse and a more specialised nurse. I hear from your reply that a proposal in this respect is one of the possibilities. We will continue to follow this issue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u51	Madam Secretary, MRSA is a variant of the staph that is no longer susceptible to antibiotics due to the frequent use of antibiotics. This problem has a link with the pig sector. The high presence of the bacteria in the pig population is a potential threat to public health in the future. Contact with pigs is clearly the main risk factor for getting livestock-related MRSA, according to various studies. A recent Dutch study shows that the three variants of MRSA cattle, human and hospital-related......................................................................................................................................................... Madam Minister, has your colleague from Agriculture, Mr Borsus, been consulted on this? If so, what are the conclusions of this consultation? If not, are you planning such a conversation in the future? What are the most recent data and conclusions from this on the prevention of cattle-related MRSA in our country? Are you taking measures to sensitise people in the pig sector? Are people active in the pig sector automatically screened for the presence of MRSA when hospitalized? Are there any guidelines on the screening of family members of people in the pig sector working in hospitals and related centres? If so, which one? Are there any other measures being taken or will be taken? I have also put similar questions to Mr Borsus, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u52	First of all, I would like to point out that the MRSA problem to which you refer does not only occur in pigs, but to a lesser extent also in poultry and calves. People talk about lifestock associated MRSA. Firstly, as regards the contacts with the services for which Mr Borsus is responsible, I can inform you that the Belgian Antibiotic Policy Coordination Committee of BAPCOC was established in the Public Health Office. This platform includes all stakeholders on antibiotic policy. AMCRA is also represented. Dit acroniem staat voor Antimicrobial Consumption and Resistance in Animals. That is the knowledge centre for antibiotic use and resistance in animals and aims to achieve a sustainable antibiotic policy to safeguard public health, animal health and animal welfare. We're both involved in that. Within the framework of the Dutch Presidency, a Council of Ministers of both Agriculture and Health will formulate policy recommendations on the one-health principle, which will address antibiotic resistance in both the human and veterinary sectors. An Inter-Kabinette Working Group is launching its activities to prepare the Council of Ministers. I have already been to the informal Council, as have an associate of Minister Borsus. The BAPCOC will continue, in collaboration with the Scientific Institute for Public Health, AMCRA and Ghent University, to launch a study on the prevention of resistance to linezolid in, among others, MRSA. This is potentially a serious problem because linezolid is currently in some cases a last resort antibiotic for resistant infections with Gram-positive germs. As regards the prevalence of livestock related MRSA in patients in Belgium, two microbiological surveillance studies are carried out by the national reference centre for staphylococci. First, there is a surveillance study of the evolution of MRSA clones in patients admitted to hospitals, conducted every two years. This shows that the live stock MRSA does not play a major role in humans. Secondly, systematic surveillance is continued for atypical strains and strains isolated in patients who have not come into contact with hospitals and/or rest homes. The 2014 data show that 8 % of MRSA strains belong to an animal clone. The majority was found in patients from Flanders. Forty percent of those patients had contacts with animals: either they had animals as livestock farmers or they were veterinarians. As regards the sensitisation of staff active in the pig sector, it has been well demonstrated that the intensity of contact with the animals very strongly determines the risk of infection with MRSA. Farmers who are in close contact with the animals are at a significantly higher risk than their family members, who are less at risk. Preventing live stock related MRSA in animals is not easy. Much research has already been done, but no good protocols have yet been established to exempt pig and calf farms from this LA-MRSA. In the meantime, the BAPCOC has decided, in close cooperation with AMCRA, to roll out a sensitization project via Rural TV. The messages of sensitization are indeed about the use of antibiotics in animals, the development of resistance and the possible transferability to humans. Moreover, AMCRA has been taking initiatives for years to raise awareness of the risks associated with the use of antibiotics and their major dangers for the development of sometimes life-threatening resistance in human and veterinary medicine. This has already been mentioned by Mr Borsus. With regard to the screening of patients in contact with the pig sector, national guidelines exist when hospitalisation takes place. Those guidelines recommend screening specific patient groups, except in the event of an epidemic. These are, firstly, patients who have been hospitalised on high-risk services, such as haematology or intensive care. Secondly, patients at high risk of MRSA carriership. This is a prior hospitalization of people who come into contact with animals. There are currently only guidelines for the patient groups I just mentioned. I will check with the BABCOC to see if it makes sense to screen care personnel who are also in contact with livestock farming. In the Netherlands, they do in the meantime. I would like to point out that a whole series of protocols on infection prevention have been adopted by healthcare staff, particularly hand hygiene, in order to avoid cross-infections between patients as well as between nursing staff and patients, but also that care personnel transfer infections between different companies. Work is continuing on the issue at European level. I will, in consultation with my colleague Willy Borsus, examine whether and what additional actions we have yet to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. That's actually what I wanted to know. I believe that everything is being done to deal with this problem. I would just like to say that AMCRA is indeed taking sensitising measures. Unfortunately, part of the animal medicine industry does not care about this and sometimes dares to showcase very advantageous promotions. Of course, that has nothing to do with you. Anyway, thanks for the intel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u54	We will normally have an exchange of views with Minister Borsus in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 9489 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u56	Questions No 9551 by Mrs Muylle and No 9661 by Mrs Caprasse lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u57	Madam Secretary, the medicine of Ofev has caused a great deal of fuss. Ofev relieves the symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis, especially shortness of breath and the feeling of suffocating. However, the treatment is very expensive. Reports have been published in the media that RIZIV links conditions to their reimbursement. In particular, the medicine would not be refunded to smokers. Is this condition strictly linked to the lifestyle or has it been scientifically proven that Ofev, for example, is less active in smokers? According to the N-VA, a link to the lifestyle is not desirable, as it is very difficult to draw lines in it. However, if it has been scientifically demonstrated that a particular target group benefits more or less from a given treatment, it must of course be possible to do so. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Who decides exactly? Can you clarify the case of Ofev in concrete terms? When it comes to linking to the lifestyle, are there any other medicines where this is the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u58	Minister, my question also concerns the reimbursement of new treatments for pulmonary fibrosis. As the press has indicated, the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM) has decided to reserve the reimbursement of this treatment only for non-smokers for at least six months. This decision surprises the medical profession, in particular because the prescription of a drug is related to behaviour deemed to be consistent with the search for good health. Minister, can you give us the motivations that led the CRM to such a choice? What is the scientific basis for this? Indeed, some experts note that treatment is not known to be less effective in smoking patients. Furthermore, the loss of time to start this treatment, pending smoking cessation, raises an ethical question. I am, of course, eagerly waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u59	Madam Minister, there is indeed a lot of dust blowing up after the decision of the RIZIV not to pay back the expensive medicine Ofev, which is prescribed for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, to smokers. I am pleased to note that you, too, are questioning this practice. Several experts rightly point out that smoking is not always the patient's choice. Addiction to nicotine or alcohol is not a lack of willpower. It's been a long time since science came up with that idea. Addiction is certainly not a moral choice. It is particularly difficult to be consistent if a healthy lifestyle would be charged to repay or not to repay medicines. Moreover, according to a number of pneumologists, the adverse effect of smoking on the action of the medicine has not been proven to be very hard. What action will you take in this regard or have you already taken? In the meantime, have you acquired scientific insights that show that the medicine would work less well in smokers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u60	Minister, given the number of stakeholders, it is difficult not to be redundant. I see, however, that our approaches differ significantly. In Belgium, approximately 1,000 people are considered to have idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a condition that leaves patients with a life expectancy of two to five years if they do not have access to treatment. It is a mortality rate equivalent to the average of cancers. So far, only one treatment has been reimbursed by INAMI, but since December 2015, a promising new molecule, Nintedanib, has been placed on the market. However, it turns out that INAMI has conditioned the reimbursement of this new medicine, the price of which is 80 euros a day, on the fact that the patient has stopped smoking for six months. This is the first time that reimbursement of treatment takes place on the condition of cessation of smoking. This decision has led to the reaction of many patients, as well as health specialists who explain that no scientific argument would demonstrate a lower efficacy of this molecule in a smoking patient. On the other hand, although this treatment does not cure fibrosis, it has the advantage of slowing down the progression of the evil. It thus increases the life expectancy of affected patients. It is important that patients be able to benefit as quickly as possible. The six-month period imposed by INAMI for this reimbursement is problematic. Another problem raised by this strange decision is the question of the principle of solidarity, which is the cornerstone of our social security system, to which my group and I, as you know, are strongly attached. According to the information currently available, this conditionality of reimbursement seems to me to be quite problematic. Minister, can you provide us with your views on this decision to condition the reimbursement of this treatment? Do you intend to plead for the abandonment of this condition? On what scientific basis has this conditionality of reimbursement been adopted? Finally, with regard to the requirement to stop smoking for six months, it appears that this would be objected to following a urinary test. However, it appears that if a person no longer smokes but uses substitutes such as patches or chewing gums to nicotine, the test is positive. Should it therefore be considered that substitutes will not be allowed to qualify for reimbursement of the treatment? If not, what solutions are envisaged to differentiate smokers from those who try to stop using these substitutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u61	Madam Minister, much has already been said and I am not going to repeat everything. I recall that the debate broke loose on the day of the debate of King Baudouin's Burger labo, which showed that citizens are strongly in favour of solidarity. They reject the fact that a link is being made between an unhealthy lifestyle and the reimbursement of healthcare. The RIZIV and yourself have said that patients' recommendations in this area would be listened to. As long as the tobacco lobby remains almighty, I do not think there can be any question of recovering the cost of medicines from the patient, especially if the link between the condition and smoking is not clearly established. If we do not pay attention, social security becomes a luxury product for more and more citizens. It is not the responsibility of the government to discriminate between patients with different lifestyles. The task of the government is to focus on prevention. Madam Secretary, will you ask RIZIV to reconsider the decision? Will you also draw the RIZIV's attention to the recommendations of the Citizen Lab? Will you take measures to help patients with pulmonary fibrosis stop smoking and will you focus more on prevention, together with the Länder? What concrete measures will you take? Are you also considering more measures to ban tobacco advertising or the introduction of neutral cigarette packages?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u62	Madam Minister, I will not repeat myself, but I would like to link a specific problem to the questions. Many patients were very surprised when they heard in the media the fuss about the fact that the expensive drug to combat pulmonary fibrosis would no longer be refunded to smokers. They had been diagnosed with the disease at about the same time. They are non-smoking, and yet at that time they received a negative advice from the RIZIV for a partial or overall reimbursement of that medication. They were not entitled to receive any justification for the refusal. Of course, it makes sense for them to have questions. Firstly, what conditions does RIZIV impose for the reimbursement of the medicine? What criteria are still being taken into account? For non-smokers, the medicine is not automatically refunded either. Secondly, why does the RIZIV not explain to those concerned why the reimbursement of the medicine is refused? Is it common for a decision not to be justified? Finally, patients who raised the alarm with me have sought other solutions. They are, of course, distraught, because they cannot afford the medicine. They have tried to get that conscious medicine from abroad, in particular from India, where it is affordable. However, despite the fact that all the documents are in order on the spot, they do not receive this medicine in the country. UPS Belgium does not want to deliver it, as long as there is no prescription from Belgium. The doctor concerned will inform the patients that he should not prescribe it. Is that right? Are you taking measures to facilitate such alternatives? What are affordable solutions for these patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u63	Before I give the Minister the floor for the answer, I would like to say that we have been informed that the Minister must leave at 6.30 p.m. I would suggest that, of course, we leave Mrs Gerkens' question to be discussed and also the questions put by Mr Vercammen and Mr Massin, who have been present from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u64	I thank you for your understanding of agenda issues during a period of budget discussions. Mrs Van Camp, Monsieur Thiéry, Mrs Jiroflée, Monsieur Sennesael, Mrs Dedry and Mrs Pas, thank you for your questions. Where a pharmaceutical company submits an application for reimbursement of a new medicinal product, this application shall be examined and evaluated by the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting. This committee was set up at the RIZIV and is composed of several members representing each of the parties concerned, namely insurance institutions, academics, medical associations, hospital pharmacists and pharmacists. As an administration, RIZIV cannot take decisions on the reimbursement of medicines. Only the CTG can make a decision autonomously. This decision is then followed or not followed by me and is based on the evaluation and advice of the CTG. Since this is an independent organisation that gives an informed opinion, I usually follow the advice. In certain cases, such as with Ofev, the CTG has the possibility to advise the company to enter into consultation with a working group for a temporary refund under a confidential agreement, according to Article 81, when there are clinical or budgetary uncertainties. A large number of medicinal products are subject to specific reimbursement conditions which must be fulfilled in order for the patient to be entitled to the reimbursement of the medicinal product concerned. These conditions shall be established to encourage rational use of medicinal products as well as to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicinal products in patients. Here, it was also advised to conclude a contract under Article 81. Ofev's terms of reimbursement include diagnosis, discussion in a multidisciplinary team, dose predictions, the determination of lung function tests and also imaging. The CTG also suggested that smokers should be excluded from the refund, because smoking in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is considered a prognostic bad factor. They are based on various studies and articles referred to in the evaluation report. In addition, there are pharmacokinetic elements suggesting a more limited uptake of Ofev in smokers. The package leaflet of the Food and Drug Administration clearly states that the intake of Ofev is 21 % lower in active smokers compared to non- or ex-smokers. Therefore, patients were advised to stop smoking before and during treatment with Ofev. In addition, active smokers have been shown to have lower plasma concentrations of the medicinal product than non- or ex-smokers. If a reasoned question is transferred to me for the analysis of additional scientific research on whether or not smokers are excluded for the refund of Ofev, it will also be analysed, in collaboration with the CTG bureau. If it is decided that this scientific support is justified and that there is a justified demand, a re-evaluation may be carried out and, where appropriate, a modification of the existing reimbursement conditions. Other scientists have pointed out that they have scientific information showing that there is no difference in the uptake or functioning of Ofev in smokers. I would like to clarify that the CTG takes into account all the scientific elements in its assessment of a refund application. If it has been scientifically demonstrated that a medicinal product has reduced efficacy in a particular patient group, the CTG will include this in its evaluation and advice. This can happen, for example, when it comes to a patient group with a certain genetic mutation, a group with a specific form of the disease concerned or, in some situations, a certain lifestyle. However, I would like to stress that in all these cases, including Ofev, the medicine has been shown to have reduced its efficacy in specific patients. The fact that a particular condition is the result of a particular lifestyle is completely unrelated to this and is under no circumstances used as a refund criterion. I was asked for my opinion on the matter. Well, I said at the time that one should be very careful to link a refund to a particular lifestyle. There are also genetic and socio-economic factors on which patients have no impact. As Mr Senesael said, our social security is based on solidarity. The existing solidarity is solidarity between healthy and unhealthy people and between the poor and the rich, so that solidarity goes in all directions. Mrs Pas, I am not aware of each individual case, but I find it strange that you say that a refund has already been refused, whereas it cannot yet be repaid, since the refund does not start until 1 April. You ask whether the product can also be ordered abroad. Here's what I can say. A pharmacist may deliver a prescription-only medicinal product imported from abroad only on the basis of a prescription and a doctor's certificate. The doctor may draw up such a prescription and a doctor's certificate only if he declares that the patient cannot be adequately treated with a medicinal product currently on the market in Belgium. That's only possible in the next two cases. Firstly, there is no medicinal product of the same pharmaceutical form and the same qualitative and quantitative composition of active substances authorised or registered in Belgium. Secondly, such a medicine exists, but is not available or is no longer available in the Belgian trade. As Ofev is available on the Belgian market, this product should not be imported from abroad. As far as that's concerned, it's true what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. Everyone agrees that it is reassuring that there is no destabilisation of health care. As Mrs Dedry said, the study by the King Baudouin Foundation shows that there is the greatest support for this. I am certainly reassured that the decision on Ofev is based on scientific criteria. It therefore seems very logical to me that for a particular target group, whose efficiency is much lower and insufficient to justify the reimbursement, that choice is made. I note the lack of clarity about this. In the coverage it was certainly not clear that these were the underlying motives. So there is still work to be done on transparency. We have already asked questions about this in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u66	The message didn't come from my services. In it the link to the lifestyle was directly established. Those people can be treated if they quit smoking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u67	That's right. The transparency of the reimbursement procedure in general should be ensured if and not, who takes the decision, however, remains to be done. It's very hard to understand for the people, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u68	Since Mr Thiéry has left the Chamber, I now give the floor to Mrs Jiroflée for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u69	It may not happen every day, Madam President, but I agree with your reply. I will be brief, Madam Minister, because you have to go to the budget talks. I am in any case in favour of maintaining solidarity in health insurance. I am glad that we all agree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u70	Madam President, I support and share Mrs Jiroflé's reply. I thank you for your reply in which you recalled and stressed the values of solidarity that we particularly care about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u71	Madam Secretary, I will make you very happy by joining the replies. For once, we agree. That should happen more often, beyond party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u72	Madam President, I can also join the previous speakers. Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed explanation. As regards refusal, I can inform you that those involved have informed me that they have already received a negative opinion from the RIZIV. You just said that the independent CTG decided on a scientific basis and you were talking about a less efficient functioning of the medicine in certain cases. I would like to urge you to include in the communication the transparency that has just been mentioned. If people get negative advice, they should at least know why. Unmotivated advice causes a lot of displeasure and the situations are already serious enough. In such situations, interested parties may use any additional support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u73	We shall return to agenda item No. 25, the combined questions put by Mrs Matz and Mrs Gerkens, on the double charging for consultations in hospitals. As has been said, Mrs Matz has been excused, which means that her combined question No. 9473 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have attached my questions to that of Mrs Matz, who is absent today and excused, in an attempt to broaden the debate because this is a subject that has already been raised on several occasions in committee. In addition, Mr Frédéric interviewed you in plenary session, following a broadcast by the RTBF in mid-January which denounced the practice of double-rate consultations in a public hospital in Liège to obtain an appointment within a shorter period of time for some doctors. This kind of practice is not isolated. It is therefore not necessary to stigmatise a hospital, even if the practice highlighted at the CHR in Liège is special since it is an agreement approved by the organizing authority of the hospital for internationally renowned doctors who consult at particular times. Having said that, I know that other hospitals have also developed this type of convention, although most have cancelled it. In addition, there is a widespread practice of rendezvous with hospital doctors granted more quickly at a higher rate outside the hospital. Minister, the purpose of my question is to ask you about projects that are under way. Thus, in the hospital funding reform project that you have presented to us, there is no question of the harmonization of the remuneration of specialist doctors within the hospitals proposed by the KCE. I firmly believe that if we do not address the method of funding and the way in which doctors are paid on the basis of acts, some of which are much better reimbursed than others because of their technical specificity in particular, and if we tolerate pay differentials ranging from 7 to 10 for certain medical specialists, we will continue to face this type of drift. In the same way, we are talking about dynamic cadastre, specialist doctors. It must be noted that there is a shortage in the specialized sectors, as well as in some hospitals. There is also competition and an increase in the salaries of some doctors. To get out of this, some do not hesitate to increase prices and use certain subterfuges. Madam Minister, as a result of these events, do you have a cadastre or do you have any idea what is really happening on the ground with regard to these different practices and depending on the modalities? Don't these elements push you to integrate these dimensions into both funding reform and cadastre development, in order to address physician shortages? Given that, for the time being, patients cannot get appointments within a reasonable period of time, how will you meet these unmet needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u75	Mrs Gerkens, I've read the story on the front page of Questions à la Front Page. I even gave it a reaction. I have also taken note of the decision of the CHR's Citadel Board of Directors to put an end to this practice. The practice of higher pricing has been in place for many years and is based on the application of the specific requirements of the patient. Article 50(6) of the coordinated law of 14 July 1994 provides that agreements concluded with doctors and dentists may lay down the conditions under which providers may derogate from conventional tariffs. They shall lay down the conditions for the time, place and special requirements or economic situation of the beneficiaries in which these fees may be exceeded. Agreements between doctors and insurers provide for special provisions on special requirements. The practice of the Citadelle hospital is not repeated as a situation justifying a derogation from the conventional fees. Uncontracted doctors freely set their fees and, as you know, there were two in this hospital. I fully support measures to encourage physicians to enter into agreements to avoid such situations that may jeopardize access to care. As for your questions about the existence of a cadastre, the answer is no, there are none. Doctors agree with hospital wards. We could ask for a cadastre, but it's not certain we're getting an answer. As you know, in our presentation in committee, we gave you our schedule for the refinancing of hospitals. The three clusters are working on hospital funding and how to finance low-variable, medium-variable and high-variable care. In the low variable, it will be flat rate. There is no possibility of counting more or having two different rates. The only existing medium is in high care (intensive care), but it is very special for patients at risk, such as transplants and other surgical procedures. We take this into account in order to avoid this problem. In any case, it is not simple, but we are working on it. Since I took office, we've been talking about new hospital funding. We are moving forward as quickly as possible. Some school managements even tell us that we're going too fast. Having said that, we have lost a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u76	Minister, I agree with you. We have lost far too much time in an indispensable reform of the method of financing hospitals, but also doctors, etc. We had the opportunity to discuss this refinancing plan. Nevertheless, I note that the aim is to generalise as much as possible a growing package. And I would like to stress again the need to reflect on the amount of acceptable remuneration and how to regularize it at the hospital level. From the moment that hospitals feel compelled to pay doctors with impossible wages, it will necessarily be necessary to pick up the money somewhere: through remuneration and payment of benefits beyond reimbursements. I therefore insist on this as well as on the answer to the shortage, because it is also that which participates in the elements. Otherwise, I agree with you on the need to continue the reform, while integrating the two elements that I have just addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u77	For those who have stayed here for so long, there are apparently sandwiches that are placed at the entrance. We come to the penultimate question for tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u78	Madam President, Minister, RIZIV recently announced the new statement of the reference amounts on 18 February 2016. This time only ten Belgian hospitals will receive an invoice, representing a total of 2.4 million euros. It is striking that no Flemish hospital is in violation. The RIZIV recovers only too much invoiced amounts from six Brussels and four Walloon hospitals. In the past, hospitals were already heavily overrepresented below the language border and in the capital. In the new account, therefore, RIZIV only fishes hospitals in Brussels and Wallonia, which is a striking illustration of this two-way country. Hospitals that share the blows even include a university institution. Furthermore, the analysis of the RIZIV shows that public hospitals are overrepresented and that the amounts recovered are also significantly higher than those of private institutions. Madam Minister, much progress has been made in the fight against excessive expenditure in certain interventions. However, we can see that some persistent problems persist in Wallonia and Brussels. Do you have the names of the institutions that charge too much? Will you make those names public? Why do Walloon and Brussels continue to have problems that have been solved in Flanders? Isn't a separate approach compelling itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u79	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, the figures you mentioned were set in 2014, but in September 2015 seven hospitals were asked to repay a total of EUR 1.5 million. These are six Brussels hospitals and one Walloon hospital. Since it was checked, the situation has improved continuously. The number of hospitals involved was 34 in the first year and decreased to 7 in 2015. The amounts recovered amounted to EUR 6 million in the first year, which fell to EUR 1.5 million in 2015. Knowing that we will continue to monitor, that will also decrease. From the start of the system, we chose not to disclose the names of the hospitals involved. It should be stressed that the system does not say anything about the quality or medical skills of the hospital. However, this reveals the differences in practice which ensure that in certain hospitals the average cost of the fees invoiced is higher than the Belgian reference. We have been looking for a possible explanation for the fact that they are only Brussels hospitals and one Walloon hospital. This may be due to the fact that pre-operative studies are carried out more frequently by some hospitals prior to the stay, while others are always carried out during the stay, increasing the costs eligible for the reference amounts. This may be the case in particular for the Brussels hospitals, which attract patients from all over Belgium. The problem of benefits in kind provided prior to hospitalisation will be resolved as these benefits will be included in the reference amounts. We will work with a career period of 30 days before the recording. I therefore believe that the problem will disappear. At least we'll keep checking. As part of the plan of action for the reform of hospitals, my ambition is to replace a retrospective system, a retrospective recovery, with a prospective system of flat-rate financing. This will pose the problem of the financial risk of practical differences between hospitals at the hospital itself. It will be an incentive for them to reduce their spending. They won't actually be able to pass it on to us anymore. We'll change the rifle's shoulder and do an award a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your forward-looking vision. The professional secrecy always graces you as a doctor. I can go along with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u81	Minister, the problem of alopecia, whether permanent (i.e. pelade) or temporary (following chemotherapy treatment) can cause great harm to people who suffer from it. To the aesthetic damage of seeing her hair fall, which one frequently suffers when one is in chemotherapy, adds a moral and psychological suffering. A partial and flat-rate reimbursement for persons using a capillary prosthesis is also provided for by INAMI. In fact, 180 euros are reimbursed for a capillary prosthesis in case of malopecia due to chemotherapy, and 270 euros in case of pelade. Of course, I have inquired about the hospital staff of public and private institutions - surgeons, oncologists, etc. It appears that the service provided by prosthetic vendors varies greatly from one institution to another. It's exactly the same as a haircut. To date, no competence is required to perform the profession of capillary prosthetist, and there is no special infrastructure required, which may lead to the care of the patient sometimes lacking. In other words, everyone can now settle as a capillary prosthetist. This problem, not specific to Belgium, has been solved by some of our neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, approved centres have been set up and in France, a charter of customer rights and seller's duties, as defined by the National Cancer Institute, has been set up. Minister, do you consider it necessary to take action to regulate the profession? Would it be appropriate for you to set up an accreditation committee within INAMI or another body in order to approve under specific conditions those who wish to become capillary prosthetists?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u82	Mr Massin, thank you for your interesting question, because it concerns a lot of patients. I knew the profession wasn't really regulated, but I didn't know there were so many differences between the prosthetists. I have therefore asked my services to collect examples from neighbouring countries of whether this profession is regulated. In this way, we can take an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you. If you wish, I would like to make documents available to you because I have already done some research. I know there is an association on the francophone side. I don't think there are any on the Flemish side at the moment. Maybe that would be good because it's a federator. You are absolutely right to be concerned about the problem. In fact, they are often hairdressers who declare themselves hair prosthetists and who work - without wanting to be unpleasant - in their back-shop. Others, on the other hand, take a lot of precautions. You'd be very happy to have a lot of patients and their families if you took the problem with your arm-to-body. I'm at your disposal if you want us to move forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic366x.u84	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for answering questions in these busy times.
