ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u1	Madam Minister, in its official opinion of 5 April to the Institute of National Accounts, Eurostat indicated that all Belgian hospitals should be considered as part of the public administration, since there is no decision-making autonomy for all major decisions such as investment, the number of beds or the type of care offered and there is always a need for public approval. Madam Minister, are Belgian hospitals covered by the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and on the compatibility of the federal state? What is the impact of consolidation on government debt and the balance of claims?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u2	On 5 April 2016, Eurostat published a formal opinion on the sector classification of Belgian hospitals. According to Eurostat, these should be included in the government perimeter. The Institute for National Accounts has not yet taken this opinion into account in the context of the EDP notification of April. The figures on public finances published in April do not yet take into account the consolidation of hospitals, as the INR initially wants to analyse Eurostat advice in more detail. It is therefore not yet clear to what extent hospitals will be covered by the law of 22 May 2003. This law clearly defines its scope for the institutions classified under the central government by the INR. It seems logical that if hospitals are to be consolidated with the public authorities, they will be classified under social security, which in principle will not be subject to the law of 22 May 2003. However, we must wait for the INR's ruling to be able to make final statements on this matter. In any event, the INR itself indicated that the impact on public finances would be rather limited. The press release of the Institute for National Accounts, following the publication of the EDP figure, talks about an impact on government debt of less than 0.2 percent of gross domestic product, as confirmed by Eurostat's publication of 21 April 2016: "A future classification will most likely result in a limited increase in government debt'.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Do you see any timing for the INR's ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u4	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u5	In that case, we will continue to follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, this inquiry is somewhat dated because a solution has been found to the situation in prisons, but it is a broader reflection. Indeed, I take advantage of what happened in the prisons to question you more globally. The budgetary policy of this government, as we have already said, is disastrous in our view. Revenues are often overestimated. We saw him again last week. Your spending cuts have been showing their limits for a long time in several departments. Since the 2015 budget vote, we have denounced this policy of unconscious austerity in some important departments such as Justice, Defence and the Interior (federal police). This has given us reason because you have seen the various actions that have been carried out, among others, by the prison officers but also the reactions within the Justice FPS, not to mention the Finance FPS. You did not want to hear anything and you continued in the various budgets to unjustly reduce the means of public services. Today, through all these actions carried out in the various departments, it can be seen that your budgetary policy to reduce expenditure is indeed untenable. Today, the government is paying the consequences, as has been said, through the various actions that are being carried out. In response to the prison strike at the time, the government had decided to send military personnel to prisons. I am not going to go back to this debate about whether or not to send military personnel to prisons, as it has already taken place in many committees. My question is more about a budgetary aspect. This requisition had a cost. How much did the government estimate this cost? How can such a requisition of the army in prisons be justified without addressing the fundamental issues of allocation of resources to public services and prison or police personnel? Don't you think that such a "rustine" policy, which provides solutions to speed, does not ultimately cost the state more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u7	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I shall begin by giving figures to reframe the statements just made. The most recent ones, published by Eurostat, concern the year 2014. According to these figures, Belgium is the country which, proportionally, spends the most to make the public authorities work. According to the OECD, Belgium spent 53.9% of its GDP on public expenditure, placing itself in the top 4 of European countries. With regard to Justice, in 2015, the amount spent by the Department was almost equivalent to that spent in 2014, almost $1.9 billion; in 2016, the funds available are of the same order of magnitude, while Minister Geens has taken a series of measures to improve the efficiency of his Department. As far as Defence is concerned, the appropriations available in 2016 are, it is true, 3% lower than the amounts spent in 2014. But I would remind you that the government has recently validated a strategic vision that plans to spend €9.2 billion on military investments and has mobilized €200 million to make short-term investments. This vision foresees, for the first time, an eventual increase in the Defence budget after decades of savings. You know enough about the Defense Department to know that's right. For the interior (federal police), the appropriations available in 2016 are higher than the 2014 expenditure. We are therefore far from the austerity policy that you call unconscious or austere. She's not unconscious or austere. To answer the question on the cost of military deployment in prisons, I can tell you that it amounts to €654,806 and that this amount will be covered by the interdepartmental provision. On the substance, I recall the need, at the imperative time, to deal quickly with particularly difficult situations for detainees placed in a humane situation, mainly due to prolonged strikes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I must admit that the Eurostat figures you mentioned do not bother me. It remains important to be able to continue to invest in quality public services. We all need it. As far as the Justice Department is concerned, additional resources have been made available, but, in spite of this, FPS Justice staff and magistrates continue to complain about a lack of resources. If efforts have been made, they must be further increased. I would like to recall all the manifestations of the FPS Finances. In fact, we had a bad mood – you were present – during the debates on budgetary adjustment. This indicates that the needs in this area are enormous. As for the defense, it's a department I know very well. You are talking about the strategic plan and the means planned, but these means are allocated to investments. We know that the number of military personnel will decrease – this has been made clear – as we increasingly ask our military. They are in the streets and when there is a problem in the prison world, they are also solicited. However, they must also take part in actions abroad. In the long run, this will be a problem. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I will table a motion calling for the cessation of the requisitioning of military personnel for tasks not related to operations abroad or to assistance to the nation. It's a bit more specific. But also, as far as you are concerned, Madam Minister, I ask the government to provide sufficient resources to enable the state to carry out its public service tasks with competent and trained staff for each department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u9	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Ahmed Laaouej read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Minister of Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, asks the government 1. to stop requisitioning military personnel for tasks not related to operations abroad or assistance to the nation; 2. to provide sufficient means to enable the State to carry out its public service tasks with the competent and trained staff of each department for that purpose." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Minister for the Budget, responsible for the National Lottery, requests the Government, 1. no longer reclaim military service for tasks which do not fall within the scope of foreign operations and are not covered by the aid to the nation; 2. to give the State sufficient resources to carry out its public service tasks, with the competent and trained staff in each department." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Gilles Foret and Eric Van Rompuy. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, for many years the National Lottery has been present in cycling platoons through the sponsorship of a professional team of first division. This investment has a significant cost but also generates visibility for the National Lottery while contributing to the promotion of a very beautiful sport. By choosing to own this team via its subsidiary Lotto Sport Organisation, the National Lottery also assumes a significant financial risk. If there is a deficit at the end of the year, it is up to the Lottery to assume it and if it is simply sponsor, there is an investment determined a priori. It seems that you wanted to question the Lottery's participation in the financing of professional sport, a cycling team in this case, at least in its current form. What amounts have been invested by the National Lottery in the Lotto cycling team through its subsidiary LSO over the last five years? What has been the financial result of LSO over the past five years? How are the consequences of a possible deficit managed? Should it be filled by the Lottery? How does the Lottery control the decisions taken by LSO? Is Lottery associated with LSO's strategic decisions? By what means? How is the Lottery taking into account the objective of promoting sport for all and of ethics in cycling sport (especially in relation to chemical or mechanical doping) through its investment in cycling sport? Have specific tasks been assigned to LSO in this context? What are the prospects for the future of this investment in cycling? Are you in favour of continuing this investment or not? Do you think he should take other forms? Would you like the Lottery to stop its investment in cycling? Within what time frame and according to which process should a decision be taken on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u11	Mr Gilkinet, thank you for your question. The total amount invested in LSO cannot be disclosed because of the business secrecy resulting from the commercial nature of the relationships between the different sponsors of the cycling team. However, I will try to answer your questions as far as possible. Considering the fact that Lotto Sports Organisation NV is a pure 100% operating company owned by the National Lottery, any possible loss would mean too much degradation of the limited company's own funds to the subscribed capital of 62 000 euros which was to be compensated by the National Lottery. In 2011, the year of LSO's reactivation, the net result was - 47,877 euros. In 2012, the net income was 22,910 euros, 8,520 euros in 2013, 1,901 euros in 2014 and 428 euros in 2015, as these net results are based on interventions upstream of the National Lottery. Control by the National Lottery on LSO, its wholly-owned subsidiary, is exercised through the board of directors of LSO, which is composed in particular of the members of the board of directors of the National Lottery. The board of directors of the National Lottery is informed of the activities of LSO through the files relating to this subsidiary which are subject to its approval. On 27 May 2016, at a meeting with the National Lottery, I asked its managing director to take stock of the measures that could be taken to improve the communication between the board of directors of the National Lottery and LSO. In addition to professional sport, investments are made through LSO in educational projects, in teams of young people, cycling schools, teams of hope, the Lotto Wallonia Cup for young talent, always in the interests of a high level of ethics and respect for the anti-doping charter. In addition to these activities, the focus is also on volunteers as well as recreational cycling, such as the Beau Vélo de RAVel. Finally, the commitment as sponsor runs until 2020. This being the case, as part of the negotiation of the new management contract, I drew the attention of the management of the National Lottery to the fact that the existence of a subsidiary dedicated to cycling contributes to the difficulties encountered in the budgetary arbitrations. It was early this year. Since then, I have organized several meetings at my firm with the management of the company. This one proposes to me to reduce the participation rate of the National Lottery in the property of LSO. Indeed, being both sponsor, owner and manager of the Lotto-Sudal team, as is currently the case, makes a legal and financial risk too great for the National Lottery, of which this is not the social object. However, I consider it premature, at this stage, to put forward a preferred solution. I still leave all the leads open, which will be studied without taboo or prejudice. However, I can assure you of my commitment to the cycling sector, which is, as you know, very popular in Belgium. Therefore, it is out of the question of neglecting the essential character of this discipline for the players and the twenty-five years of investment that the National Lottery has devoted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u12	Minister, as I practice cycling every day, I confirm its importance, especially when her high-level exercise gives you the urge to take a bike. Nevertheless, I must express to you the very great dissatisfaction with the beginning of your answer. I am thinking of the lack of transparency as to the amounts invested by the National Lottery in this team of which it is the owner. It is not acceptable for a public company, by creating a wholly commercial subsidiary, to opt for opacity. You told me about LSO's annual results, but you told me that it was after further intervention by the National Lottery, so beyond its sponsorship. Therefore, we cannot, as elected representatives, control the amounts it has invested. In terms of transparency, this is really problematic. From a democratic point of view, that is unacceptable. I hear your willingness to clarify the situation. To clarify things would be to come back to this Parliament with these figures that cannot be hidden from us. Then there are other solutions. Perhaps it is to dilute the responsibilities for a team co-owner to also cover part of the deficit at the end of the fiscal year, at the end of the season in this case. But for me, it can't be a bottomless well either, and it can't be done without Parliament's control. So you can count on me to come back with questions that are even more specific than those of today. I believe that the Court of Auditors should be able to examine this matter, beyond my deep love for cycling, and the fact that I am supporting this team and I hope that it will win the stage today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u13	Mr Dispa is not present, so Mrs Smaers has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u14	Mr President, Minister, we have just had budgetary discussions in Parliament. Following the announcement of the Plan Bureau's macroeconomic outlook on 21 June, you pointed out that it was a question of the prospects without the Defence Strategic Plan and measures such as the Cayman tax and the fight against tax fraud. My question, therefore, is to get a look at the latest figures for 2015, the impact of a number of measures on the balance and on the macroeconomic impacts that will be charged in the budget for the coming years. The Planning Bureau foresees that the structural balance in the coming years will fall to ‐1.5 % in 2017, but then rise to ‐2.1 % in 2020 and 2021, for the joint government. The reduction in interest charges would come to an end by the end of the legislature. The 2015 annual report of the National Bank of Belgium indicates a structural balance of -2,5 % for 2015. The European Commission assumes a balance of -2.6 %. The general explanation of the first budgetary adjustment provides for ‐2.1%. I have the following questions. First, what is the structural and nominal effort to be made, including the expenditure related to the Defence Strategic Plan and measures such as the Cayman tax, based on the latest macroeconomic parameters, in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 in order to comply with the submitted stability programme and to maintain the balance in 2018? Secondly, what was the structural balance in 2015, based on the latest figures? Thirdly, are the final figures for 2015 already available? If not, which governments have not yet provided their figures? The specific figures in your answers may also be given in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the Federal Government Monitoring Committee will publish its report in mid-July, so very soon, which will determine the budgetary effort for the period 2017-2019. For this purpose, the economic budget published by the Federal Planning Office on 9 June 2016 and the economic outlook 2016-2021 published by the same institution on 21 June 2016 will be used. On the basis of the report of the Monitoring Committee, the government will then decide what measures will be taken to keep the budget on track. A multi-annual perspective will be used. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that the most recent estimates for the structural balance were made when the general explanatory notes for the 2016 budgetary control were published in May 2016. In this document, the structural balance for 2015 was estimated at 2,3% of GDP. I come to your third question. On 20 April 2016, the Institute of National Accounts published the tables to notify government deficit and government debt to the European Commission. These tables provide an initial provisional estimate of the revenue, expenditure and financing balance of the general government and its sub-sectors for the year 2015. On 30 September 2016, the Institute of National Accounts will publish the detailed accounts and tables of national accounts. These figures may still be revised in a later publication, but the detailed government accounts of 30 September will, of course, be more definitive than the provisional estimates of 20 April. The figures currently available are therefore not yet definitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u16	Madam Minister, it is still waiting for the final figures for 2015. I note your answer to the other two questions. You are apparently still waiting for the Monitoring Committee's report to know the other figures and efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u17	Mr President, I would be grateful if you would excuse my delay entirely beyond my control. Madam Minister, unless I am mistaken on 20 May, the Council of Ministers approved the new management contract for the National Lottery. On this occasion, the amount of the monopoly pension was fixed at 135 million euros per year between 2016 and 2021. This figure is the same as in 2012 and 2014. On the other hand, for subsidies, the fixed amount is 185.3 million euros, slightly more than 20 million less than in 2015 and slightly more than 28 million euros less than in 2013. In your policy note of October 2015, we can read: "For the years to come, my will is to be able to propose a timetable that would provide the beneficiaries of the royal decree with greater predictability by speeding up, as far as possible, the decisions on this matter." Minister, how do you justify this structural decline in subsidies allocated by the National Lottery? Can you give us more details about the distribution of subsidies in 2016 and the procedure you will apply for their distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, the subsidies granted through part of the profits of the National Lottery are essential for a large number of associations active in the sports, cultural or artistic sector. The new management contract which has just been approved, however, is sliding some EUR 20 million a year, for five years, in opposition to the subsidies granted to the association. This, of course, gives rise to the concern of associations which directly or indirectly receive, via the Communities, a share of the benefits of the National Lottery. Over five years, you will deprive these associations of EUR 100 million. This will obviously not be without consequences for the latter. Indeed, these associations can only be affected by your budgetary decision. Madam Minister, do you confirm this reduction of €20 million for five years in aid from the National Lottery to the voluntary sector? How will this decrease in envelope affect associations assisted directly or indirectly by the Lottery? Which associations will be affected? What percentage of subsidies will they suffer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first turn to the precise figures of the monopoly rent in recent years. While it is true that the amount of 135 million foreseen in the new management contract equals that of 2012 and 2014, it is nevertheless lower than that of 2013. That year, in fact, the monopoly rent was finally set at 146.3 million, which is higher than what is known today. In order to compensate for this increase, the then government had decided to reduce subsidies in an equivalent way, i.e. by EUR 11.3 million, notably through a 5% reduction in subsidies from a number of associations and organisations, including in the social integration sector. The National Lottery obviously cannot distribute profits that it does not generate. In my policy note, I had not hidden the challenges ahead, and in the first place the stabilization of the company's turnover, which has been undermined since the opening of online bets in 2011. This stabilization is essential in order to be able, if circumstances permit, to further increase the societal contribution of the National Lottery. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the text of the new management contract leaves a certain margin for the rediscussion of the recorded amounts of 135 million monopoly rents and 185.3 million subsidies, both upwards and downwards. On the other hand, I wanted to avoid entering unrealistic amounts. Under the Act of 19 April 2002, the plans for the distribution of subsidies from the National Lottery, both provisional and definitive, are decided by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. A proposal may be submitted to the Committee following the approval of the management contract. Furthermore, I have already indicated that the specific situation of associations will naturally be taken into account. In the list of beneficiaries, there are also state structures, foundations and associations which have more possibilities to compensate for a possible decrease in their subsidies. Finally, Mr Gilkinet, you referred to the Communities with the assumption, I imagine, that everything they receive is paid directly to the voluntary sector. I personally cannot confirm this because I must inform you that my predecessor had asked, via the National Lottery, to have more information on the destinations of the subsidies paid by the latter to the Communities. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation, for example, had indicated that since the information was available on request for the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, it did not appear to it to be "appropriate" to communicate this information to the National Lottery at the same time. Since this issue seems to me to be equally important to you, I will not fail to rest the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u20	Thank you, minister, for your answer, in which I note two additional points of concern. First, you tell us that the amounts already reduced are not definitively fixed, that there is a threat of revision both upwards and downwards. I think it is an additional uncertainty factor for all the beneficiaries of these subsidies, if the amount had to be reduced again. The second element of concern or dissatisfaction on my part, you suggest that some associations may be able to compensate more easily for the drop in these subsidies. I don't think we should be fooled. I do not see very well by what other type of resources these subsidies could be offset. The only possible compensation will be a reduction in the activities of these associations. You are certainly the first to know that these activities are useful for the general interest and are often activities for the benefit of the population and the various sectors concerned. I think that the key to this decision will certainly be to reduce the intervention capacity of these associations. We must regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u21	Minister, your answer is not reassuring. The tone is set but the news is bad. There are communication vessels: if we increase the monopoly rent, we must reduce something else, in particular the subsidies to associations, unless we hope for an increase in the turnover of the National Lottery, which is not in the credible perspective. Who's gonna pay? Associations dealing with persons with disabilities, those dealing with social integration, culture or sport? You should take better care of yourself. These associations need to know what subsidies they can count on, in an extremely difficult context at all levels. I regret that you are no clearer and no more voluntarist in defending these envelopes of the National Lottery devolved to the voluntary sector. You might say that we don't touch that and that we balance it differently, for example on the amounts awarded to the cycling team or on the federal state monopoly rent. As for transparency, I fully agree with you. The Ecolo Group in the French Community has submitted proposals for decrees; we have also done so at the federal level. Once the envelope is determined, it is necessary to decide to communicate about the beneficiaries of the National Lottery. It is too often the Prince's fact that applies with regard to the distribution of subsidies. But before that, your job is to determine the envelope. We want it as much as possible for the benefit of the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u22	Mr Dispa, what I am saying about upward or downward developments is not new. This has always existed in all previous management contracts. You saw it yourself. The difference that has been made in the current management contract is that the indications are clearly identified. We don't work with any more avengers like we used to. The possibility that already existed was clearly identified. It's just that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u23	Minister, in your general policy note, you announced greater predictability. In view of this announcement, I find that this is far from the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, the question of Eurostat's inclusion of public-private partnerships (PPPs) in the scope of public administrations is an issue which has already been a great deal of ink. In both the North and the South of the country, some major infrastructure projects are experiencing implementation difficulties related to the out-of-date nature of these expenditures. This is the case in particular with the enlargement of the Ring d'Anvers or the tram project in Liège. I raised this issue in the discussion of the concession contract bill. In his response, Minister Borsus announced that a circular would be drafted by your departments in consultation with Eurostat to clarify the impact of public-private partnerships on the balance of funding and on debt. Minister, what is the status of discussions with Eurostat on taking public-private partnerships into account within the scope of public administrations? Can you tell us more about this draft circular? When do you intend to publish the circular on this subject? This will be an interesting element in the important discussion of SEC standards in relation to public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u25	Mr Dispa, first of all, I would like to explain that the problem of the budgetary imputation of PPP contracts concerns, by definition, the Communities and the Regions in particular. The only PPP contracts concluded by the federal authority are centralized at the Régie des Bâtiments. Current contracts are mainly DBFM contracts (Design, Build, Finance, Maintain). With regard to a series of new prisons, both ICN and Eurostat have already declared these contracts to be in conformity with the ESA rules. At the request of the Communities and Regions, consultations were held with the relevant European bodies on the problems they face in financing the necessary investments in the context of budgetary restrictions and the sometimes very strict interpretation of the PPP rules by Eurostat. The ICN is the Belgian authority that follows the development of this case. After checking with the NCI, Eurostat is currently developing new budget directives for PPP contracts. At the request of many European authorities and in the light of European plans to promote investment, Eurostat should make the current rules somewhat more flexible. The aim is to clarify under what conditions PPP constructions should not be included in the national authorities' balance sheet. In addition, I would like to point out that the Consultation Committee of this 6th July agreed on the establishment of a working group on public investment. Finally, a circular on the impact of PPP contracts on debt is being drafted. However, it can only be finalised after the publication of the rules clarified by Eurostat expected in the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u26	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and precise answer. We will follow closely the directives coming from Eurostat shortly. I am pleased that in the meantime you can also finalize this circular. I also welcome the establishment of the working group on the initiative of the Consultation Committee. If the cases most concerned relate to the Communities and Regions, they are cases with significant repercussions, in particular in terms of public investment. I fully understand that the federal government is also interested in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u27	I read today in the Flemish press, in De Standaard and De Tijd, the announcement by Minister Van Overtveldt that he will make proposals at the European Council of Ministers to keep public investment, which in Belgium is around 2.5%, out of the budget, including for the regions. An example that has already been mentioned is the Oosterweel connection. We are not alone in this. If such investments are no longer to be included in the budget, we can make a contribution to the relance through these public investments. This requires, of course, a revision of the Eurostat rules and of the budget deficit as such. Commissioner Moscovici said that he wants to be more flexible, but only when it comes to investment, not current expenditure. Yesterday there was a polemic about this. I think that file is clearly on the move. Let us hope for positive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u28	Mr President, I thank Mr Dispa and the Minister for the questions and clarifications. Could we not, Mr President, devote one morning of the Committee's sitting to this problem of budgetary imputation under the Eurostat rules, if the situation is indeed changing at European level during the summer? This really blocks public investment policies. It is about the Ring of Antwerp and the tram in Liège. I can also talk to you in Brussels about housing policy, which, unfortunately, is hampered by this straitjacket. Perhaps it would be worth a briefing with the Institute of National Accounts and why not with someone from Eurostat, but perhaps also with government representatives, to explain the situation and the evolution of the rules. It is a subject, I think, of great interest to politicians and decision-makers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u29	I do not know whether, at European level, it is the Finance Ministers or the Budget Ministers who decide this? Yesterday there was a Council of European Finance Ministers. Today, Mr. Van Overtveldt announces that he will make an initiative. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u30	It's in ECOFIN. Basically, with this question of budgetary imputation, it is a question of determining budgetary balances and debt rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u31	I think we should look at this again in September. The Minister said the file is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u32	Mr President, I think it will be a little early in September. Eurostat will give its views during the summer on the PPP issue. There will be a first meeting of the investment consultation committee working group in September. So, in my opinion, we're gonna be a little early. There is indeed a movement towards Europe that is not only Belgian, in my opinion, by taking into particular consideration strategic investments. Unless Minister Van Overtveld comes to explain what happened in ECOFIN, I think we will not yet be at the stage of European decision-making. I may be wrong, but I feel like it might be a little early. That does not prevent, if the parliament wishes to have a...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u33	We will see in September where we are. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u34	Mr President, it is particularly nice to have an exchange of views when we are with each other. We should renew our experience on other subjects, including budgetary matters, but this may be less likely to be consensual. Minister, my question is overstated by the facts, but I wanted to go back to the issue of the administrative blockage of spending. We have talked a lot about this in the discussion of the budgetary adjustment that has just been voted on. The government has decided to increase the administrative block by €265 million as a result of this adjustment, in addition to the €874 million originally foreseen in the 2016 budget, which had already been the subject of comments by the Court of Auditors. In 2015, the under-utilization, in fact the initial blockage of appropriations of 600 million, was revised upwards at a rate of 114.5 million during last October's fiscal adjustment. This increase in underutilisation was reflected in the Circular on budgetary prudence for the end of the 2015 fiscal year, which imposed this administrative blockage. Recently, the press reported that the government had issued a new circular on fiscal prudence. Unless I am mistaken, it has been attached to the report on the budgetary adjustment. It set the savings to be realized by the FPS Finance at 138.4 million euros. Minister, do you confirm, although it has become superfluous, the administrative blocking of spending in public services? How do you justify the 265 million increase in the under-utilization target? Do you believe that this type of measure will increase the efficiency of public services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u35	Mr Dispa, we have dealt with this subject on several occasions in the discussions on budgetary adjustment. I confirm that the Council of Ministers of 22 April decided on an additional underutilisation of the 2016 budget of EUR 36 million compared to previous budget notifications. The 260 million concerned a level of 650 million and not previous budget notifications. It is sometimes a little complicated to find it, but the objective reality of the figures is an increase of 36 million compared to previous budget notifications. The circular of 20 May on the enhanced budgetary prudence mechanism for the 2016 budget year provides for a series of administrative blockages to reach the amount of underutilization that has been set. I recall that, in this context, the government has decided to exempt from this measure the departments or services most sought in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, such as Justice, the police, the OCAM and the Crisis Centre. As the Court of Auditors pointed out in its comments on the budgetary adjustment, the underutilisation set for 2016 is lower than the underutilisation achieved in 2015. This underutilization could have been achieved when the Court of Auditors had identified potential shortfalls in its observations on the initial budget and the adjusted budget for 2015. However, in the context of its hearing in Parliament on 8 June on budgetary adjustment, the Court indicated that there were far fewer potential shortfalls than it had previously found. It also pointed out some overestimations that could contribute to achieving the target of underutilization in the light of changing circumstances. Furthermore, underutilisation results from measures to limit expenditure and from natural underutilization every year, which results from the inability of departments to spend 100% of their budget during the year, for various reasons. Finally, the administrative blockages were broken down by the departments themselves. They were therefore able to determine their priorities and the basic allocations on which under-utilization is potential, ensuring that they function properly. Should an unforeseen problem arise, administrative blockages have the advantage of being able to be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you. The Court of Auditors, in its report on adjustment, noted fewer inadequacies in appropriations simply because it mainly carried out this analysis in the context of the initial budget. When you tell us that the objective can be achieved, I have no doubt. It is fairly easy to achieve an under-utilization goal. All you have to do is block the credit and the target is achieved. The problem is the effect, in particular, in terms of carry-overs or the impossibility of honouring certain expenditure in the short term. I continue to believe that this is a technique that can certainly be justified in terms of the need to achieve budgetary objectives but which poses real problems in the effects it causes and which also poses a real problem of transparency towards Parliament. In this respect, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to know the breakdown of the various basic allocations (AB) of this blockage of appropriations since you replied that the departments were in charge of allocating this blockage to their own appropriations. For the sake of transparency with regard to Parliament, is it possible to obtain a list of these blockages in detail so that we can know precisely on which posts, in the end, the blockage was carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u37	The circular contained all the blockages by department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u38	It's still very general. I don't think it's at the level of basic allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u39	I need to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u40	Mr President, it is enough to read the press every day to convince ourselves of the many uncertainties that weigh on the budget. Today, for example, in the South Press Group, there is a problem with the yield of excise duty on alcoholic beverages, particularly spirits. According to the South Press Group, the government is estimated to be 70 million behind its budget target by 30 June 2016. As we said during the debates, we had explained that increasing excise duties would lead to a move towards our neighbouring countries. Obviously, this feeling is confirmed. Still in today's press, La Libre I think, a tax lawyer explains that people wait for the implementation of the tax regularization before declaring their offshore structure as required by law since 2014. This will obviously have an impact on the yield of the Cayman tax since if all offshore structures are not declared, the Cayman tax base will shrink as much. Also with regard to tax regularization, the Council of State agrees with the opposition which has tabled an amendment to review the scope of application, more precisely the obligations imposed on taxpayers to respect the division of powers between the Federal and the Regions. The Council of State considers that, as it stands, the draft law, if not amended, will give rise to possible legal disputes between the authorities concerned, in particular the Regions. To all these uncertainties affecting the budget is added the problem of the evolution of tax revenues between the first five months of 2016 compared to the first five months of 2015. Several figures are circulating, ranging from 1 billion to 2.2 billion late in tax revenues. It's a big deal. Almost a month ago, I scored a $1 billion difference over the first three months. The problem now seems to be more important. All of this in the general context of the National Bank's assessment of what still needs to be found to be balanced in 2018, i.e. 8 to 9 billion. That's a lot, minister. You're not responsible. You centralize the numbers you are given, your circulars recall the imperatives – your budget circular has corset the department – and you do with what you are given. So I certainly don't throw the stone at you. However, as Minister for the Budget, it is inevitably up to you, politically, to know how to get out of this particularly difficult situation. Beyond that, why did you postpone the budget discussions until the beginning of the year? The Monitoring Committee should be about to return these analyses, if it has not already done so. If you have them, what are the numbers? What is the timetable for budgetary work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u41	It's a difficult question. What are you going to do, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u42	I shall begin by answering Mr Laaouej's question. As regards the timetable, as announced, working groups are already working to analyse a first report of the Monitoring Committee which sets out the state of implementation of the budget. This is not the report of the Classic Monitoring Committee; it is expected in the next few days. As soon as it is released, the working groups will then take it to analyse all the figures and, as usual, make any technical corrections. Work will then resume from 16 August. I am well aware of the questions about the effort and the fiscal trajectory. I recall that the report of the Monitoring Committee is the document on which the government relies for its budgetary work. He's not out yet. There is no obligation to complete the budget before 21 July. Technically, the groups are already at work. We await the report of the Monitoring Committee, knowing that the deadline is 15 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you. I don't know much more, except about the calendar. I readily acknowledge that this was my question of departure and that I have a little digested. Having said that, I am very concerned because this situation is problematic. I am not going to say that this is never seen, because I do not have enough political experience to assert it. In any case, very sincerely, I think this government burned the candle through both ends. Through reckless reforms, you have created an extremely difficult situation. From a theoretical point of view, one might wonder whether the government is not going to ask for a postponement of the budgetary balance. One can also wonder whether he will not decide on further cuts in social security or in public services, or even – the last option – if he will not increase taxation. However, we see that taxes on consumption are so important and unfair that they lead to perverse and negative effects. If, on the other hand, you decide to act on direct taxation, I guess you're not going to go back to the tax shift. Only corporate tax and capital income would remain. Will you finally follow the CD&V's wish to make a little more use of taxation on speculation? All this is worrying. I would have hoped for more answers. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u44	Mr President, I thought I had another question about the funding mechanism for hospitals. It may not have been filed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u45	This topic was the subject of a question by Mrs Temmerman at the beginning of the meeting. Your question concerns the interdepartmental provision to combat terrorism. We've already discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u46	Madam Minister, I wanted to update the distribution of this interdepartmental provision, an updated breakdown of the envelope, by department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u47	Mr Laaouej, your question was about the provision "combating terrorism and radicalism". This provision to combat terrorism and radicalism is subject to a strict methodology, which can be summarized as follows. In addition to compliance with existing legislation, projects must be directly linked to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. In order to ensure strict compliance with these conditions, a specific methodology has been put in place whereby records of procurement or recruitment of personnel must be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate and to the Minister of Budget at two separate times. First, during phase 1, when the public procurement or recruitment procedure is launched. There, the profile is checked with the object of the provision. The file returns to Phase 2 at the time of actual recruitment, when the cost is accurately known. It is therefore only when the cost of the project is known with certainty that a distribution order can be drawn up. At present, two royal decrees have been drafted. They include the following amounts: a first breakdown relates to an amount of EUR 13,122,415 in commitments and liquidations. I'll give you the numbers in writing, but I'll at least read them to you. Commitments for the Internal SPF: €192,974. For the Defence: EUR 12 979 441. A second Royal Distribution Order has also been drafted. It will be signed in the next few days. In terms of commitments, it includes the following: Internal FPS: EUR 181 303; FPS Foreign affairs: EUR 10 825 000; Defence: EUR 45 000; Federal police: EUR 3 466 258; FPS Public health: EUR 238 368. We're in phase two here. If one considers phase 1, i.e. the projects whose initiation of the procedure has been approved, there is a total of EUR 160.7 million in commitments and EUR 154.5 million in liquidation which, from the moment the figures are certain and come back for control under phase 2, can themselves be the subject of a royal decree. There are therefore two phases. You will understand that the implementation of all this takes some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic471x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am not surprised that, not because of the delay but because of the temporality caused by administrative and budgetary control, the provision as a whole is not yet being consumed. In any case, I see a fairly good coincidence between appropriations in terms of commitments and appropriations in terms of liquidation. This shows that decisions are executed fairly quickly when the procedure is followed. Finally, I take note of the information given to me.
