ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this question is about football, a topical issue in our country. On 25 May, you sent the official debrief concerning the transmission of football matches on a large screen on Belgian territory and the organisation of events associated with football. There was already an informal letter or an informal letter, the content of which differed somewhat, but I am talking about the official letter. The purpose of the circular is to provide the responsible and responsible actors, first and foremost the mayors, with a number of recommendations concerning the organisation, management and supervision of such events. All events and activities related to football can have an impact on mobility and/or the maintenance of public order. It is therefore important, according to the circular, to draw up a multidisciplinary risk analysis in advance and, on that basis, to decide what measures should be taken and by which bodies. This risk analysis should take into account the size of the city, the number of expected participants, the organiser's experience, specific circumstances of the venue of the event, etc. The letter states that when there is a serious or very serious threat level, some additional measures such as limiting accesses, inserting additional access controls and increasing police visibility in and around the location must be taken. The timely preparation of a risk analysis will allow us to have a quick look at the measures that will have to be taken and, therefore, the necessary police capacity. Hence my questions. Given the content of the letter, is it not impossible for some organisers to organise another event in view of the stricter security measures? You said earlier that the measures are not mandatory and that the choice lies with the mayor. This means, of course, that the responsibility lies with the mayor as well. It seems obvious to me that many mayors do not dare to take risks, which unfortunately means that some events around the European Union cannot take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u2	Mr President, Mr Top, this is a very peculiar conclusion from a number of mayors in this area. I've been approached by a lot of mayors asking what they can and should do under threat level 3. That wasn't clear to everyone. I sent a letter to clarify that. What is the menu without any additional obligations? You won't find in that letter any additional obligation I impose on mayors. I want to do what I always say, namely that we must never change our way of life, not even under threat level 3, otherwise we will carry out the agenda of the terrorists. Who am I to make it impossible to organise events, even below the threat level under which we now live? Quite the contrary. It is clear that the threat level 3 must be taken into account and that a number of measures can be taken. Then who's better placed than the mayor to evaluate the local situation? I'll give you two extremes. First, a large screen on a market square of a small village somewhere deep in Flanders, with one of the first matches in the preliminaries, not even a match of the Belgians, or, second, a large city of Ghent, Antwerp, Charleroi, Liège, fill in the day of the finale in which the Red Devils play. Do I have to talk in a letter about all these possibilities? I can't. Whoever can best assess the circumstances locally is the mayor. We have given the mayors the menu lists from which they can choose the elements they have at their disposal. A number of mayors conclude that the responsibility thus shifts to them. Even if I hadn't sent that letter, the responsibility would still lie with the mayors locally. That's exactly what it is. Whether an event should take place or not, under what conditions, with what security measures and with what additional administrative measures, that is precisely the responsibility of the mayor. I wanted to help the mayors by identifying what elements they could have at their disposal, what elements they could implement. There is no shift of authority at all, quite the contrary. There are cities that have also contacted federal police in connection with major events. I'm not just talking about football, I'm talking about festivals and so on. We are giving full support there. I've explained my practice. That some mayors have translated that as if they of Jambon should no longer allow an event to take place unless they take draconian security measures, I leave that to the mayors in question; that is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u3	Minister, first of all, you must not feel attacked. I can only speak from my own experience. You quoted two examples, namely an event on a square in a small municipality and an event in a large city. I give two examples from my own city. Firstly, the E3 Prize, a few months ago, if I may say so two or three days after the unfortunate and very serious attacks in our capital. We were the first to be beaten or literally had to intervene in order to apply the security measures. Secondly, the current problem. With regard to the E3 Prize, we have taken all possible measures with all the actors of the security cell to allow the competition to take place in the circumstances of that time. You say that people from the security cell or mayors do not accept their responsibilities, but that is not the case, at least not with us. I am convinced that most people and most mayors will accept their responsibilities. I come to the activities that are now being organised in connection with the European Championship, and the measures resulting from the letter. I can only say that a number of fellow mayors and persons involved in risk analysis were in doubt. You said that you are offering a menu of possible measures. However, the letter gave some of them a feeling that if they did not apply the full menu but only part of it, the responsibility was largely theirs; or rather, not the responsibility or not the fault, but the failure to impose security measures. Some of my fellow Members felt that, following the letter, all the security measures included in the menu had to be taken. The organisers felt that they were under too much pressure to be able to organise events. Just so we're clear, I gave you an example from our police zone. All requested events have taken place, provided that a number of security measures are taken. The organisers were very pleased to accept the security measures, because they were pleased that their event could take place. However, the question arose from the safety cell as to whether all these measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u4	Mr President, Minister, you have recently responded positively to the appeal of the Governor of West Flanders, Carl Decaluwé, asking you to deploy the only operational drone of the Federal Police to track, from the skies, the candidates for migration to Great Britain along the Franco-Belgian border, so as to "correctly direct the forces to the ground". In the run-up to July and the high season at the Belgian coast, the above-mentioned governor again invited himself to the asylum debate by making Belgian citizens fear a massive influx of migrants, some of them from the Jungle de Calais, who would enter the national territory in an attempt to rally Britain from Zeebrugge. A few months ago, the same governor had distinguished himself by comparing these migrants with hungry gulls. He had thus outrageously declared, I quote: "Don't feed the refugees, otherwise others will come". Hence, minister, my questions. Could you elaborate on the budget for this mission this summer? To what budget provision will this future expenditure be allocated? Have any missions to observe migrants by drones already taken place in Belgium? In carrying out this mission, how will the Federal Police comply with the provisions of the Data Collection Methods Act of 4 February 2010 as these are data relating to individuals? Will the drone in question be able to cross the Franco-Belgian border? Have any agreements or other contacts been made with the French authorities? Will not the assignment of this single drone to anti-migrant missions affect the effectiveness of other federal police missions, starting with the fight against terrorism, which also calls for such support? Does the Federal Police draw this idea of aerial control by drones from current practices of other European police? If so, which ones? I asked my question before the information that Eurotunnel was deploying two drones on Calais to control migration was published yesterday, but in this case it is a private company and not a police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u5	Mr. President, Mr. Hellings, for some time now, the federal police have been using a drone as a specialized means to assist front-line local police officers or other federal police directorates. The calculation of the cost will only be possible after a certain period of time, the reference period, when we can estimate the number of hours of use of the drone. Taking into account the purchase price and the interviews, the training of pilots, the vehicle, the premises and the training of a pilot with video operator, an initial evaluation gives an operational cost of 300 euros per hour of flight. This is not an exact calculation because we must first have a reference period. This is a first estimate on the basis of the various elements I have just given. In comparison, one MD-902 helicopter costs €2,736.82 per flight hour. There, we could do the calculation to the nearest cent! One MD-520 helicopter costs €1,595 per flight hour and one Cessna costs €783 per flight hour. For the time being, missions to observe migrants by drone have not yet taken place in Belgium. Consideration is given to how this can be incorporated. The federal police drone is only equipped with a day camera and can only be engaged for missions for which this camera is sufficient. He may be engaged in the search for missing persons, the detection of crime scenes and the presence at mass events. The legal framework for the use of drones equipped with cameras by the police in its surveillance and detection missions dated 21 March 2007, regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras. The same legal framework also provides the basis for the use by the police of other police equipment equipped with cameras, such as helicopters or self-propelled pumps. The observation can only take place on Belgian territory. At the moment, there is no agreement with the French authorities on the use of drones. The Treaty concluded with France for surveillance does not provide for the use of drones. The specialized engagement of the drone is requested by the local police zones or the Federal Police Directorate from the Director-Coordinator of the Administrative Police. The latter, after an assessment of the appropriateness, will request this specialized technical means from the DAO. In addition to the legal aspect, subsidiarity and proportionality assessment, DAO management will also make an estimate of the priority in the event of multiple requests for a drone. There is also cooperation with the Defence. It was in the context of the increase in the terrorist threat that the Defense drone was engaged, among other things, over the seaport of Antwerp. The purpose of this commitment was to detect suspicious cases in the context of terrorism and in the context of suspicious observations. Maritime police patrol teams were sent to the scene. There, I must say that we have made an estimate of the surveillance of the port of Antwerp without drone and with. At that time, we wanted to provide surveillance 24 hours a day. The difference between the two was 120 people. I don't say every hour of the day, but to guarantee surveillance 24 hours a day. The cooperation between Defence and the Federal Police is determined in a protocol. The request for operational and non-operational support takes place between the Administrative and Technical Secretariat (SAT) of the Ministry of the Interior and the SAT of Defence. With regard to your last question, Frontex cannot confirm the use of drones in migration. We have also learned that the Netherlands has bought drones, but our neighbour is only in the training and training stage of the police. In France, the gendarmerie also purchased drones. The example you mentioned can be added to this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u6	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It goes without saying that in the fight against organised crime, in particular terrorism, drones can be useful. We've seen him in the recent arrests of proven terrorists. This can be particularly useful. The difference here is that migrants are not criminals. Being a migrant is not a criminal act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u7	Neither is a festival made up of criminals, but there is a risk that something will happen there! It is right to detect it and immediately send the necessary services. It's not just about crime that drones can be used for surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u8	But the role of the police is also to fight crime first and foremost. If priority is to be given, the means of the police, whether human or material, must first move towards what is very important. At the moment, the police, like the army, have other priorities. I believe that the fight against terrorism is a priority over the issue of migration. I'm reassured that the cameras only work by day. There are no cameras that can work at night. I still think that if there were candidates at the border crossing, they would spend the night. I think it's more interesting for them. You say the legal framework is the 2007 surveillance cameras. However, it seems to me that using a drone is a bit like using a camera for the police or intelligence services. It seems to me that we will also have to ask ourselves about the law on data collection methods in this context. For the rest, we will ask you about the cost when you count a sufficient number of flying hours in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, every year in Belgium, there are an average of about 10,000 cardiac arrestes. Unfortunately, only 5 to 10 per cent of the victims escape death, after having received quick and effective relief. However, it is estimated that the combined use of an Automated External Defibrillator (AED) with the practice of heart massage, within the first 3 to 5 minutes of a heart attack, can increase the resuscitation rate to more than 50%. For several years, DEAs have appeared in certain public places: railway stations, shopping centres, sports buildings, etc. Easy to access and use, they can be quickly used by everyone to revive a heart arrest victim. The presence of defibrillators in public places can therefore save lives. For its part, the CHU Saint-Pierre Foundation recently launched a campaign entitled "Equip them". The aim is to increase the number of police officers trained in the use of a DEA. According to the Foundation, the rapid intervention of police in comparison with ambulances, combined with the presence of defibrillators in their cars and first aid training, would save more lives. A pilot project, consisting of a system of geolocation of police vehicles equipped with a defibrillator, is currently being developed in connection with emergency services 112. The goal is to alert close patrols of a heart attack victim. This system is currently being tested in the Brussels-North area. However, according to my information, not all police officers are trained in the use of these devices and the presence of defibrillators in police cars is not currently widespread. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What steps have you taken to strengthen the first aid training of our police officers, including the use of defibrillators? What proportion of police officers are currently trained in the use of these devices? Do you intend to strengthen police training in this area? If so, how? Today, what is the proportion of police vehicles that have a defibrillator? Do you intend to take steps to generalize the presence of defibrillators in police cars? If so, how and on what agenda? Do you already have an initial evaluation of the pilot project currently being carried out in the Brussels-North area? Are you considering, on the basis of an evaluation of the results, supporting the extension of this project to other police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u10	Mr Calomne, the police in general are fully aware of their social function and of the importance of providing first aid medical emergency care. But this cannot be a priority task for the police, nor can it be an essential task. This is the task of the medical sector. However, in the basic training, a 'first-care' module is planned. But within the deadlines, I cannot tell you whether the use of the automatic external defibrillator, the DEA, is part of these training hours. In addition, specific training is provided within the framework of welfare legislation. The Royal Decree of 15 December 2010 on first aid stipulates that the employer must ensure that all medical first aid workers have the basic knowledge and the necessary attitude. As part of its social function, the federal police take into account the installation of DEA in its buildings when carrying out the above-mentioned risk analyses. In this context, the federal police decided to include DEAs in their buildings, not in their vehicles. Several federal police personnel, including police officers performing front-line policing tasks, have acquired this competence. In order to meet this obligation, the Federal Police used the training unit of the Federal Police Medical Service, where the following measures were taken. First, an accreditation dossier for the DEA training was created, and then the content of the first aid courses was adapted, where the DEA module is regularly discussed at each basic and refresher training. Finally, a train the trainer course was organized for all interested units. I do not have the figures for the local police services, but only the figures for the federal police. The medical service has 4 teachers. More than 4000 staff members are trained: 692 in 2012, 1010 in 2013, 808 in 2014, 836 in 2015, 700 planned for 2016. This training is planned at national level and is of a permanent nature. There is no need to strengthen training for the federal police. With regard to your second question, I have no figures on the proportion of police vehicles with defibrillators. At the moment, I am only aware of the pilot project for the Brussels-North police zone and the Alost police zone. To date, no evaluation has been provided to me. I therefore do not intend to take measures to extend this project to other areas. Moreover, it is essential for me to ask this question in the context of the so-called "key tasks" of the police. Using defibrillators in intervention seems to me more a task for the medical services than a priority task for the police, although I can understand that the police are in many cases faster at their destination and could, with defibrillators in their car of intervention, save lives. With regard to your third question, as mentioned above, I have not yet received an evaluation of this Bru-Nord project or of the Alost area. After consulting the Brussels-Nord police zone, it is up to me that the pilot project aimed at placing DEAs in the intervention vehicles and above all, a geolocation of the vehicles equipped with a DEA. Patrol vehicles are equipped with a transmitter for permanent geolocation. In case of cardiac arrest, dispatching 100 sends a signal to a neutral server. This server calculates the response time of vehicles equipped with DEA and then sends the data live to the local dispatching of the Brussels-North zone. Currently, the police area has nine operational vehicles equipped with a transmitter and is investing in four additional patrol vehicles. The project, which started in 2010, faced several challenges. First, an FPS Health legal intervention suspended the project until the beginning of this year, when the Minister of Health authorized the use of AEDs by police officers. Since then, the police zone and its partners have tried to restart geolocation, but the project is currently experiencing computer problems. Given the general framework, the welfare legislation and the essential tasks of the police, and given the pilot projects under way, I think it would be premature to take a position on this matter. I therefore do not intend to extend this project to other police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u11	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response, and I will, of course, come back to that in some time, perhaps when the evaluation could have been carried out in relation to these pilot areas, to know the result and whether these various measures should be expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u12	Minister, you find me an ally in your fight against organized crime, especially when it comes to motorcycle gangs. I am free to ask you a follow-up question. What progress has been made with the creation of regional information and expertise centres? I am also very interested in the whole Bibob story, which goes wider than that of the biker gangs. I'm also trying to put things into practice in Maasmechelen. What is the situation? What are your strategies, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u13	Mr Terwingen, there are two pilot projects Operational Support ongoing in Antwerp and Limburg. During the various meetings of the guidance committee, this section was discussed several times in depth, to determine which slope is most appropriate. On 20 June, so very recently, a first operational meeting took place for Limburg. For Antwerp, the meeting at the cabinet is scheduled for 30 June 2016. For Limburg it was agreed to replace the RIEC in Limburg immediately after the summer, i.e. in the autumn, September-October. The necessary capacity is defined for this purpose. So we can put that in place soon. As regards legislative measures, an advisory committee was set up under the direction of Professor Brice De Ruyver of Ghent University. The last meeting took place on 20 June and the manual was presented to the steering committee. Once the various comments from the steering committee have been received, the manual can be completed. We have asked Mr De Ruyver to take stock of what is already possible within the current legal framework. These are the initiatives that we can implement in the short term. In parallel, we are working on a Bibob Act, which we also agreed in the coalition agreement. That's a little more cumbersome. That is why we have looked at what is possible in the short term within the current legislative framework. The manual is almost ready and will be made available to local authorities and local zones. In addition, we are preparing the legislative work to come to a Bibob à la Netherlands law. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that our country, together with the Netherlands, has started discussions to set up a euregional RIEC, to deal with crime, including that of motorcycle gangs, in the euregion, in this case in an administrative manner. This project is under the auspices of the European Commission. Subject to positive and constructive negotiations, we hope that the euregional RIEC will become operational as soon as possible. What's the status? The idea is there. The Netherlands wants in. The European Commission also sees bread as such. Now all that needs to be put together. I am a asking party and I will be a stimulating party to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u14	If it were not for me to be so modest, I would almost dare to think that there might be a causal link that two meetings were convened on 20 June after I had put a question. Of course, that is not the case. First of all, as far as the Bibob story is concerned, I think you have the right approach. First you inventory what can be done and then you create a broader legal framework. I suppose the next few months there'll be an interim design, perhaps from your hand. In my opinion, you have a leading role to play in this as a minister. I have also noted that the RIEC may be operational in the autumn. If you take the term euregional RIEC in your mouth, I'm totally happy. I once launched that term. If we can achieve this, it is certainly very important for the border region, given the waterbed effect. After all, this is the problem: the harder the Dutch press, the bigger the wave, which ends up with us. As one of the many mayors faced with border crime from motorbike gangs among others, a solution is at my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u15	Mr President, Minister, this question was not made by myself but by a majority member, in particular someone from your own party. I found the question very interesting. However, when I noticed that she was withdrawn, I submitted them myself. Minister, in recent weeks the media have been reporting various problems to the police. Apparently, individual policemen or small groups within the police force are struggling with racism and discrimination. A number of operatives are also involved in criminal practices such as extortion and threat. The police have a social exemplary role to play. Neutrality, justice, incorruptibility and so on are necessary values. Of course, it is not always possible to avoid the recruitment of malicious persons. The police recruitment service conducts an in-depth investigation before recruiting candidates. Nevertheless, we are establishing a general blurring of standards, even with the police. This blur is often due to a sense of impunity. Policemen often see that, despite their intensive efforts, criminals are soon released again or barely punished. In addition, several chiefs of police, Commissioners and other senior staff of the integrated police have already been called into question. Finally, there is still a macho culture within the police, in which the group is leading. A complaint against a member of this group is considered to be a complaint against this group within this culture. This leads to victims being afraid to complain to colleagues for fear of reprisals. Once a complaint has been lodged, it will soon be known who the complainant is. The consequences are usually serious because the petitioner often becomes the subject of further exclusion, harassment and sometimes even threat. Although the police have confidants and a department of internal supervision, the threshold for lodging a complaint is very high. An important reason for this is that the people of the internal supervision are also members of the same corps and that this makes subjectivity possible. I'm skipping a piece from the written version of my question. You were able to read that information. I'll go straight to my questions. Do you already have an idea of the timing of the changes to the disciplinary status and whistleblower status? Can you consult with the local authorities to deal with the blurring of standards within the police? The awareness of police officers about diversity is included as a focus in the National Security Plan. The text reads as follows: "Integrated police stimulates all staff and, in particular, the reference persons on discrimination and hate crimes, in training. Together with Unia, a series of diversity training courses is organised." In view of the growing need to raise the awareness of police officers about diversity, is there no possibility of non-binding training? I added this last question because in the meantime the National Security Plan was announced. The other questions were drawn up by a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u16	Mr Top, as far as timing is concerned, there have been operational priorities, not only the fight against terrorism, which have confused the agenda a bit, but we are supposed to address both issues this year. That's a little bit later than anticipated. I had hoped to achieve that in the first half of the year, but a few things have come up. That will happen this year. Each police chief shall be responsible for monitoring the deontological rules within his or her corps or management under the authority of the competent authorities. The rules are clear. It is important that abuses are actually addressed. Everyone must bear that responsibility at their level. With the National Security Plan, both custody ministers have formulated a clear framework and recommendations for all police forces. The objectives have also been formulated with regard to diversity and discrimination violations both within the internal HRM processes and in justice. Further cooperation is foreseen with Unia, the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. Taking over a question from a majority member is good opposition work, I think. If it's okay, I'll tell you. The responsibility to send police officers to certain training courses is an operational and management responsibility and therefore a competence of the corps leader concerned. We can't make training compulsory. This would not only interfere with local autonomy, but also with the operational leadership of a corps. As has already been said, in the National Security Plan we have defined the framework and set out the objectives. We follow them closely. I probably do not need to repeat that we want to give greater impetus to diversity policy for the integrated police in the coming years. The police as a reflection of society remains the starting point. In addition to promoting internal diversity, the police also play a leading role in the fight against discrimination and hate crimes. Three objectives have been set for this purpose. Firstly, to encourage all staff, and in particular the reference persons on discrimination and hate crimes, in training. Secondly, where this has not yet been done, the designation of reference officials on discrimination and hate crimes in the context of the repressive section. Thirdly, work within the GPI on regular communication and sensitization about diversity, in collaboration with Unia. As far as the federal police department is concerned, the Commissioner-General has already committed himself to the following points. Firstly, the federal police conduct an active diversity policy and position themselves in relation to the growing diversity of characteristics, needs and expectations of target groups and partners, on the one hand, and of workers on the labour market and on the ground, on the other. Secondly, the implementation of the diversity policy of the federal police is based on two pillars. Under the influence of the Commissioner-General's note, the existing training offer has been reformed and participation in training is further encouraged. There is also a tailor-made approach for the various managements. It is important that everyone who wishes to undergo diversity training first follows a basic module of anti-racism and anti-discrimination. Thirdly, the focus is also placed on the executives. They must set a good example to their employees and have the necessary knowledge to recognise and respond appropriately to discrimination. The Commissioner-General is pressing for every leader of the federal police to follow that basic pedestal legislation. The whole approach is paying off, because since May 2016 some 300 employees have already followed this training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u17	First of all, Minister, I would like to say a few words about the introduction. That is why I have submitted my question, with the link to the National Security Plan and the training. For the introduction there are three possibilities: either she is tendentious and overruled, or it is indeed very serious, or it is somewhere in between. That is why we are talking about this issue in a more nuanced way. We know that the problem exists, it is discussed and there are reports from different corpses and services. We have knowledge of this and we must indeed pay attention to it. You replied that the changes concerning disciplinary status and whistleblower status will be completed by the end of the year. That is a good thing. Hopefully, it will provide better follow-up and protection for whistleblowers, but also for victims of discrimination so that the corps can work better. As far as your answer to the last question on training is concerned, you have given a lot of descriptions of how training is being addressed. I missed something, though. You did refer to basic training. If you ask me, I think that is a personal opinion. Only by arming new people in this way and providing good information during basic training will we in future be able to reduce or even completely rule out these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u18	Mr President, Minister, in Tournai, there was a great deal of noise about a flight a few years ago. It is theft of the Byzantine cross, stolen in the treasure room of the cathedral in 2008. This cross has an important pecuniary value, as it is composed of gold, precious stones and pearls. In addition, it has a highly symbolic value for the history it represents. Indeed, it was offered to the bishopric of Tournai by a knight who had annoyed in the 13th century and was venerated by the various kings and emperors for centuries because it contained fragments of "the true cross". It should be noted that, following this flight, he was followed by an investigation which is still ongoing and involves many police from all over the world; they would be more than 200 on the spot! Minister, you announced a few weeks ago the dissolution of the Art and Antiquities Unit of the Federal Police, that is, the cell in charge of combating illegal trafficking in stolen art objects. The operational work organized by this unit today will now be carried out within the deconcentrated judicial directorates. So, can you tell me who will now be in charge of the Byzantine cross case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u19	Dear colleague, the Byzantine cross is for Dan Brown's next novel! To be clear, the management of the case at the police level was carried out by the then Tournai PJF and the Art Cell of the Central Service Organised Flights and Thefts of Works of Art which provided support, due to the existence of links with abroad, in this specific case, the Netherlands. As part of their mission to coordinate information and provide support, they gave advice to the Prosecutor's Office in Tournai and sent an Interpol request for the Byzantine cross to be included in the list of the most sought-after works of art. The latest information received in this regard dates back to the end of 2015. This information has always been transmitted to the PJF in Tournai, which is responsible for the case at the police level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u20	Mr Minister, you know, we've been waiting a long time, but I think we'll wait a little longer, alas! I thought that with Minister Jambon, it was going to go fast, that we were going to settle the matter quickly. I thought it was good for tourism in Tournais. I hope in any case that we will continue to have information and that, for the thieves of the Byzantine cross, the future will not be Byzantium!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u21	Questions Nos 12544, 12546 and 12547 by Mrs Katja Gabriëls are transformed into written questions. Question No 12582 by Mr Gilles Foret is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have a first question about cooperation between the federal services and Europol. We obviously observed that a terrorist had been controlled at the Franco-Belgian border by the French gendarmerie while trying to go to Belgium after the attacks in Paris. This demonstrated the need to strengthen the joint exchange and processing, at least at European level, of state intelligence and judicial police data. Europol has recently set up a specialized terrorist service, with a view to better centralisation of police and judicial information at European level. This new ECTC tool - European Counter Terrorism Center - will effectively collect a number of trans-European data. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What collaborations are already in place between the police services of the Federal Police and this Europol centre? Moreover, while it appears that 32 counter-terrorism bodies are already affiliated with this new Europol centre, what proportion of them are private and public and are located on Belgian territory? How many are likely to be affiliated with Europol in this area? Finally, can you tell me what collaborations are in place between our cyber crime units and Europol's cyber crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u23	Mr President, Mr Pivin, it is important to point out that the European Centre for the Fight against Terrorism is not new. It is simply a coherent grouping of existing work within Europol. In concrete terms, here is a brief description of the main products and services of the European Centre for Combating Terrorism. First, a normal analysis activity within the terrorist-related focal points, a focal point that is by far the main one. Belgium is the leading provider of information within this focal point. The second task of the unit is the reporting of content on the Internet, the internet reference unit at European level, which we have also implemented at Belgian level. This unit is still relatively young and is currently operating in the form of a pilot project. It is expected to be fully operational from next month. As regards interaction with the Belgian police, a specific unit has been set up within the Judicial Directorate responsible for the fight against serious crime, DG SOC, to perform the functions of national contact point. This cell is the recipient of the newsletters sent by Europol. During the test period, the messages were linked to 19 operational files, including files relating to the events in Paris and Thalys. In addition, a joint liaison team on terrorism must be set up. This is an initiative in which Europol brings together liaison officers specialising in terrorism, who must be able to contact the relevant research units directly, in order to focus as soon as possible with the other liaison officers and Europol on the most interesting joint investigations. The Belgian Federal Police are about to send a dedicated liaison officer to Europol. The Belgian police are working very well with this Europol centre, particularly in the wake of investigations into the attacks in Paris and Brussels. Since the attacks in Brussels, operational meetings have been held regularly in Europol, at which all relevant information is shared. The last one took place on June 9. In your second question, you make, I think, reference to the many public services already connected to the confidential mailbox SIENA CT. SIENA is the connection tool between Europol and the Member States. It has recently been decided to provide for new specific e-mailboxes for terrorist cases, through which information can be transmitted in a confidential manner. Currently, 32 services use this mailbox within the European Union. In Belgium, access has been provided for SPOC (Single Point of Operation Contact), which is part of the management of international police cooperation. A cooperation procedure for sending messages via this specific mailbox has been set up between SPOC, the Central Directorate for Terrorism and the five major PJFs. As regards collaboration with EC3 (European Centre for the Fight against Cybercrime), it takes place as follows: first, the European Union Cybercrime Task Force (EUCTF) is the meeting of national heads of service responsible for cybercrime. These include operational and strategic issues related to cybercrime investigations. The European Commission and Eurojust also participate. Belgium participates in operational development through action plans of the European policy cycle on serious crime and organised in the form of the European Multidisciplinary Platform against Criminal Threats (EMPACT) projects. In this context, Belgium is, inter alia, responsible for an action for which it collaborates with other Member States: the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom, and Europol and Interpol in particular. Operational information is exchanged between Europol and Belgium on cybercrime through the channels made available by EC3. In addition, Belgium participates in various congresses, meetings and working groups on cybercrime within Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u25	Minister, a survey conducted by the Belgian pharmaceutical association (APB) and carried out in 2015 among just under 700 pharmacists found that more than 65% of them had already been robbed at their workplace. Considering that there are just under 5,200 pharmacies in our country, could you please tell me if your services were requested by the PDB as a result of this study? Do any specific initiatives have or will be taken to strengthen the security of pharmacies and the protection of pharmacists working in clinics? Has an evaluation of current procedures been conducted? If so, when and what recommendations were made? Specifically, how many officers have been the victims of burglary and how many pharmacists have been assaulted in their workplace since 2010? How many pharmacies suffered armed assault in 2015 and 2016 in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u26	Dear colleague, the tables of figures will be provided to you. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, I can answer that following the PDB investigation, my services contacted the association to learn about the results and to discuss the desirability of collaboration in the follow-up to them and how we could support the security sector. I want to pay a lot of attention to this issue, both for the safety of pharmacies and for the safety of customers, and also because the products can give rise to even more serious uses. So we decided to update the toolbox pharmacy. It is intended to inform pharmacists about existing preventive measures and concrete safety scenarios to strengthen the security of pharmacies. The PDB survey shows that this tool was highly appreciated and used by pharmacists who knew about it. The PDB decided to disseminate the results of this survey directly to its members through provincial meetings. My administration is associated with these meetings in order to provide its expertise and further promote the toolbox pharmacy. It was also an opportunity to remind the sector that it can still benefit from tax deductions for investments in the security of officiaries. In addition, pharmacists may also contact flight prevention counsellors who then conduct a safety audit for them free of charge, both in terms of burglary and attitudes to armed robbery as well as general good practices in the safety of persons and property. In order to respond directly to questions from pharmacists, it should be noted that the flight prevention counsellors and PLPi-Pharmacians (Local Pharmacists' Prevention Partnership) also participated in some of these meetings at the request of the PDB. Finally, I am looking with my administration and the PDB at the opportunity to involve the pharmaceutical sector in the security of the self-employed. We're trying. We are present at every provincial meeting with our toolbox but also with a prevention officer. The General National Data Bank is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions. It makes it possible to make counts on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, modi operandi, objects linked to the infringement, means of transport used, destinations of the place, etc. The table I provided shows the number of incidents recorded for the police services, in terms of burglary in a company or in shops, armed robbery and violent robbery without a weapon with destination of the place "pharmacy" as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes for the period 2010-2014 and the first three quarters of 2015 at the level of the Regions. In general, the figures have been declining since 2013. For burglaries in companies with destination of the place "pharmacy", there are 472 records in 2010. This figure increases to 593 facts recorded in 2012. In 2013 and 2014, the number of events decreased. During the first three quarters of 2015, 216 facts were made. There was a decrease of 40 facts compared to the first three quarters of 2014. With regard to armed robbery to the place "pharmacy", there was a decrease: 189 incidents were recorded in 2011 and 91 in 2014. For violent, weapon-free flights to the "pharmaceutical" location, the trend is almost the same: 30 incidents were recorded in 2012 and then dropped to 16 in 2014. Police crime statistics for the full year 2015 will, as every year, be available in the course of June. It's imminent. For crime statistics for the first quarter of 2016, they will be produced on the basis of the data available at the close of the July 2016 data bank. These figures will be made available in October of this year after completion and quality control, data processing and analysis, and upon approval and authorisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u27	Minister, thank you for the very detailed figures you have provided. I just have a reflection in the light of the study that was carried out. Since you are referring to the fact that prevention advisors are very aware of this issue, I think it might be nice to see with them and with your services what the impact, which I hope is positive, of telepolice devices in the context of the officiaries is. I think pharmacies are "independent" shops that are privileged for the installation of telepolice devices. Perhaps it would be good to have a study by the Ministry of the Interior on their satisfaction with these links and to see, if it is not enough, how to strengthen the links between pharmacies and police stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u28	Mr President, Minister, on 13 May 1999, the first law on communal administrative sanctions, granting greater autonomy to municipalities in order to combat nuisances, was passed. The municipalities which wished to do so were given the means to detect, prosecute and punish certain offences on the basis of their police regulations. The new law of 24 June 2013 modernised, clarified and extended the scope of the previous law. Among other measures, mediation has been confirmed as an alternative to the administrative fine, the age limit has been lowered to 14 years for municipalities who wish to do so, memorandums of understanding with prosecutors can structure collaboration with the judiciary, the maximum amount of administrative fines has been revised, nearby municipalities can adopt identical sanctions, a biennial evaluation is planned,... According to Article 52 of the said Law, the Minister of the Interior reports every two years to Parliament on the application of the law. The report shall contain at least an overview of the number of administrative fines imposed, broken down by categories of offences, as well as procedural difficulties arising from the application of the law. In addition, according to your policy note, the evaluation of SAC legislation was to be closed at the end of 2015, presented to Parliament in early 2016 which, on this basis, was to decide whether amendments to the law should be made. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What about this evaluation and the status of consultations on it? How does the new law respond to the demands and expectations of actors on the ground? Are you going soon or have you already communicated this report to Parliament? Could you tell us the number of administrative fines imposed by the municipalities? What are the types of offences? What are the procedural difficulties encountered? Lastly, had any recommendations been made and had any action been taken? Have more financial resources been made available to the municipalities to enable them to carry out their tasks? If yes which and if not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u29	Mr Kir, on 12 December 2015, the administration sent me a detailed draft report on the application of the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions (SAC), in implementation of Article 52 as you said. In order to support this report, the administration conducted a survey of Belgian cities and municipalities to examine how to apply the SAC law on a daily basis. In addition, it asked other actors involved in the SAC system about the application of the above-mentioned law, specifically the Vereniging van de Vlaamse Steden en Gemeenten, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia, the Association of the City and Municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region, the Association of Walloon Provinces, the Council of the Bourgmasters, the Vlaamse Jeugdraad, the Youth Council, the Rat des deutschsprachigen Jugend, and the Permanent Commission of the Local Police. The administration has also received a number of comments from bodies which have done so on their own initiative. However, I would like to point out that section 52 of the SAC Act imposes an obligation to report but is not intended to evaluate the SAC Act every two years. The above-mentioned article states that the report must contain at least an overview of the number of fines imposed, the categories of offences for which the fines were imposed, and the procedural difficulties which the application of the SAC law has given rise to. This same division into two parts is therefore reflected in the report. The first part focuses on numerical information, while the second part provides an overview of the obstacles and/or difficulties that actors face on the ground. It goes without saying that the difficulties or obstacles mentioned will be examined further and may lead, if necessary, to an amendment of the law. In this regard, my administration has already made a number of proposals to me and has transmitted a first draft text containing amendments that could be discussed after consultation with the various partners. The SAC report referred to in point 1 would have been transmitted to parliamentarians on 12 or 13 February 2016. The administration does not know exactly whether this report was also sent to the official channels of Parliament. The report itself contains precise figures on the number of fines imposed in Brussels (19 communes). For information purposes, I can state that the total number of fines imposed on adults in Brussels is 32 151 for the period under review. The number of fines imposed on minors is minimal and represents only 0.7% of the total. The total number of fines for infringements in terms of stopping and parking is 65,778 for the period concerned. The municipalities were also invited to communicate the types of infringements most frequently subject to SAC fines, indicating a maximum of three infringements from a list of twelve. For Brussels, noise nuisances are at the top of the list, followed by unauthorized occupation of the public domain and illegal deposits of immondices. With regard to the procedural difficulties identified and the recommendations made, I refer you to my answer to the first question. To date, no direct financial means have been made available to municipalities under the SAC Act. However, subsidies are allocated annually through strategic plans and complementary contingents of peacekeepers if, however, the commune hires peacekeepers. The totality of these resources for 2016 is still 52.8 million euros. I recall that the municipalities benefiting from these subsidies are free to determine their priorities for action among the phenomena identified in the ministerial decree of 24 December 2013. These include the incivilities covered by the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions. In addition, the ombudsmen who are made available to the municipalities and who are subsidized by the PPS Policy of the Major Cities, but this aspect falls within the competence of the Secretary of State responsible for the Policy of the Major Cities, Mrs Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u30	Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer, which allows us to see what will come in the coming months. If I understand correctly, you are going to present us with a proposal to amend the Act, taking into account an assessment made by the administration and your firm. They need a little more time to complete the analysis. If I am all right with you, we will take into account all the procedural obstacles and difficulties that have been identified. I guess we'll have an opportunity to come back after the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u31	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor when I spoke in plenary. You did well to correct my question since it is indeed the police council in question. You know, Mr. Minister, that the "votal" power at the level of the police council is well defined and, in the absence of a communal councillor, its voice cannot under any circumstances be carried by anyone else while sometimes, in the college, the mayor is allowed to be represented by an alderman, in an ad hoc and non-general manner. Mr Minister, would it be possible to improve things by allowing a communal councillor to be replaced by a colleague and to distribute his "votal" power, as is the case in Wallonia within the intercommunals where, when the council has deliberated, only one communal councillor can carry the decision of the communal council? This would have a practical side because of overlapping agendas which sometimes lead to quorum problems. As a result, Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on how to improve the legislation, since a communal councillor can very well represent his council and another communal councillor in the same way. Substitutes are appointed, but they are called upon to sit in the place of a communal councillor when he or she is no longer. Couldn't we arrange a slightly lighter representation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u32	Mr Piedboeuf, first of all, I would like to point out that the functions of police adviser and mayor are not subject to the same regimes. Currently, only the replacement in case of impediment is regulated by article 22 of the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured on two levels. The replacement in case of absence, however, is not applicable to police advisers. This distinction between the functions of mayor and councillor is also observed at the level of the municipal bodies. With regard to the problem of the approval by the police council of the budgets, budgetary changes and accounts of the police zone (Articles 24, 25 and 26 of the Integrated Police Act), it must be noted and, unless I am mistaken, that this problem is not widespread in terms of the functioning of the police councils. Therefore, it is not appropriate at this stage to consider easing the representation arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u33	Minister, I have the answer. She doesn't satisfy me, but I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u34	Mr.President, Minister, since the beginning of 2015, a protocol has been in force between the Interior FPS and Defence to enable our military to strengthen the security of our public spaces alongside our police services. This is a significant step forward in our country's security policy. According to some recent reports, it appears that complaints have been filed against military personnel securing public space. Their scope of competence would be targeted as part of this mission to support law enforcement services in our public spaces. This provision is new and has been criticized by some. It is for this reason that this support mechanism, which has been proposed for years by my political formation, the MR, was not able to see the light of day. If offences have been committed, they must be punished. But it seems to me important to hear you in the same way that I have been able to question your colleague, the Minister of National Defence, in order to prevent us from miscarriaging a corps, the military, which, on the contrary, deserves our full support in carrying out its missions. Minister, have your services been informed of complaints filed against military personnel helping to secure public spaces? If so, how many complaints are there and what are the reasons for them? Are the facts involved in situations in which the military was accompanied by police officers? Have any specific directives, possibly issued in collaboration with your colleague the Minister of Defence, been issued recently with respect to these facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u35	Mr. Pivin, my services are not aware of any complaints against military personnel as part of their mission to secure public space. So I can only answer your questions in the negative. I invite you to ask these questions to my Justice and Defence colleagues, Messrs. Geens and Vandeput. Having no knowledge of any facts, I confirm that I am not at the origin of any particular directive in this context. However, it is clear that, prior to the involvement of the armed forces in police support missions, a general note on the rules of engagement of the military was signed between the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the military authorities. These rules of engagement, for example, explicitly prohibit military personnel from searching persons and their baggage by means of coercion, that is, without the consent of the persons concerned. I would add that this afternoon, again, I received congratulations for the military in charge of protecting nuclear sites. Ten years ago, a military operation had already taken place at these sites and, at that time, the experience had not been conclusive. Today, on the other hand, their work and behaviour at nuclear sites are the subject of every satisfaction. I will convey these congratulations to my colleague Steven Vandeput, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u36	Mr President, this last clarification obviously corresponds to what we need to think about the contribution of the military. Your services were not informed, but the coincidences of the calendar made it possible for me to obtain the accuracy, at the end of the morning, of your colleague Vandeput. He told me that, at present, only three complaints have been recorded, two of which concerned situations where a member was with police officers and that they have not yet been prosecuted. I thought you might have more details about that, but the figure that was given by Mr Vandeput is reassuring and allows us to say that it is quite anecdotal. We all agree that this should not exist, but it is anecdotal in view of the importance of the effort that is being made by the military alongside the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u37	Minister, the events of 13 June near Paris remind us, if necessary, that police officers remain privileged targets for terrorists. Currently, Belgium is at level 3 of a terrorist threat. Police stations are at level 2, or even 2+. Since the filing of my question, I have been able to observe that some police officers have publicly asked questions on this subject. In fact, on June 16, a meeting was held between these police representatives and the OCAM. As the latter maintains this specific level of alert for the police stations in our country, could you tell us what are the elements of analysis that make it possible to determine that the police stations in our country are less a privileged target of terrorists than the other Belgian public infrastructures? Have any specific new measures been taken to secure and protect our police stations in level 2+ and in case of alert 3 in the light of the new royal decree issued on 18 May? What does the change from level 2+ to level 3 involve for police stations, in the day-to-day work of inspectors and officers? How fast is the analysis of the "revision" of the alert level of police stations carried out by the OCAM? Is this specific analysis for police stations carried out at the same time as the general risk analysis for the entire territory of our country? Or is this being treated specifically?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u38	Mr. Pivin, Ocam indicates that police officers and, ipso facto, police infrastructure are no longer priority targets. The Islamic State has noted that the impact on the population is much greater as a result of the murder of ordinary citizens than those committed against military or police personnel. In 2015, there was a change of strategy on the part of the leadership of this terrorist group with regard to the choice of targets. While we have so far witnessed attacks on military and police personnel in France, Canada, England and Denmark, unfortunately we saw this new strategy on 13 November 2015 in Paris and 22 March 2015 in Brussels. The aim is to create a permanent deep fear among the population, much more fragile and sensitive than security professionals, and to disrupt its daily social life. The Royal Decree of 18 May 2016 does not deal with security measures relating to police stations. This royal decree organizes the response of the authorities in case of hostage-taking or terrorist attack. When crossing level 2 with increased vigilance at level 3 towards police services, security measures towards police personnel and buildings are adapted to the threat. These measures are visible for some - among other access controls, adaptation of opening hours, etc. - but most are less visible. For obvious reasons of security, I cannot dwell on these measures. The OCAM's analysis is ongoing, based on the assessment of the geopolitical situation, the information and intelligence that this service receives. So we can't talk about a monthly or weekly review.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u39	Minister, thank you for your specific answers. It may take more pedagogy towards trade unions to understand the level of threat to which police stations are subjected. This may be a completely unnecessary concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u40	Mr President, Minister, on 30 May last the European Ministers for Youth Policy met in Brussels. In this context, it appears that the Belgian Ministers of the Communities responsible for youth policies have made commitments to cooperate with the French authorities responsible for youth policy in order to put in place a joint policy to combat radicalisation among Belgian and French young people. Minister, have you been informed of any new initiatives that will be put in place in the fight against radicalism by the youth ministers of the Belgian federated entities? Have your services been informed of the establishment of cooperation in this field between the competent Belgian authorities and the competent French authorities? Can you tell me how this collaboration is structured and in what phase a collaboration between the federal services and the services of the federated entities with the French authorities takes place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u41	Mr Pivin, in reply to your first two questions, I would like to inform you that neither my firm nor my administration has been informed of this initiative between the three Communities and France. We learned that from the press. Having said that, as Minister for Security and Home Affairs, I welcome all the initiatives taken by the various levels of power to combat radicalism, particularly in the field of youth policy, which, as you stress, falls within the competence of the Communities. The Communities, as well as the Regions, have a role to play in preventing radicalisation, depending on their own competences. On Tuesday 28 June, my administration met with the Regions and Communities to coordinate us on the implementation of the comprehensive security framework note. In accordance with the above-mentioned framework note, the federated entities and the Federal State are committed to developing better management of knowledge and expertise in prevention initiatives, in particular through consultation and harmonization with all the actors involved in prevention, including the Communities and the Regions. I can therefore confirm to you that, while respecting the competences of each entity, we, for our part, are working to inform the other partners and to increase synergies in order to develop all relevant initiatives in the context of the fight against radicalisation. However, at this meeting on 28 June 2016, the representatives of the Communities were unable to explain further the initiative to which you are referring. It was then decided, in accordance with plan R, to examine this initiative at the Working Group on Radical Prevention led by the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention, which brings together federal departments but also representatives of the federated entities and the ten cities and municipalities most affected by radicalism. At the next meeting of the Working Group on Radical Prevention on Thursday, 30 June 2016, it will therefore be necessary to take stock of the initiatives of the federated entities and more specifically of the Belgian-French collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u42	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u43	Minister, the government has decided to increase the number of explosives detector dogs, particularly for the aviation police, specifically the one based in Brussels Airport. This strengthening was indeed necessary. I would therefore like to ask you exactly what the government has decided to increase the number of dog handlers? According to what analysis was it decided to increase this number? When will this reinforcement be operational and what support missions will the new staff be dedicated to? Finally, according to what procedure can a service request support from explosive tracking dogs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u44	Mr. Pivin, in the course of planned missions, the police and the prosecutor's office can apply for support for explosive tracking dogs by means of the ad hoc form or through the B-Pad computer system with the DAO, the operational support management. In the event of an emergency and when the response is requested within 24 hours, these same services may make the request by telephone to the DAO's permanence service. The main factor leading to this increase is the number of requests for intervention that, after the 22 March attacks, have been steadily increasing. In addition, it was decided that a presence of 'explosive' handlers would be provided at airports as well as in support of the railway police. This presence is carried out by defence teams, but at present only the Brussels-National airport and the railway police are served. The staffing increase is 11 units. This operational strengthening is under way and these units will have the task of serving mainly the airports: 6 in Zaventem, 3 in Charleroi-Gosselies, 1 in Bierset and 1 in Deurne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u45	Minister, a few months ago, you presented us with the strategic plan to implement the optimisation of our police services. During the discussions, the need to ensure wide-ranging consultation of the actors on the ground and the guarantee of the widest possible representation in the working groups, particularly with regard to the services of the local police areas, was discussed. Could you then tell us how many working groups have been active so far? How many times have they met since the strategic implementation of the plan? Who represents the CPPL in the working groups set up for the optimisation of police services? Who presides over the CPPL? What exactly is the role of the CPPL in the ongoing work on the optimisation of police services? Are intermediate analyses already carried out and available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u46	Mr Pivin, as long as they are working groups on essential tasks, 20 projects are under way. Fifteen groups are headed by the federal police, three by the local police and two by my cabinet. The local police preside over the "husbands", "telephone listening", "video auditions" and "execution of requisitions requested by third parties during strikes". Each working group has already met several times, a total of about sixty times. Of the fifteen federal police-led groups, six focus exclusively on internal issues. This is why the local police are only contacted or represented in nine groups. But the commissions have the choice to define which working groups they want to participate in. I can assure you that local police representatives sit where their interests are on the agenda. The persons who represent the CPPL in the various working groups have been designated by the CPPL itself. It is currently chaired by Divisional Commissioner Guido Van Wymersch, Chief of the local police in Brussels-Capital-Ixelles. In addition to the appointment of its representatives to the various working groups, the CPPL monitors the interests of the local police and also has the role of coordinating the participants and ensuring the proper flow of information within the local component. I must also tell you that at times there were problems and I made a commitment to meet with CPPL representatives every month. Again, all working groups have moved forward at different speeds. The Group on Traffic Management at Brussels National Airport has completed its task because the new road situation meets the objective pursued. Other groups are responsible for partial results: recovery of a capacity of 28 FT cavalry to other units and recovery of 30 FT cavalry to the missions of the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police; training of dogs in search of explosives for the private sector; adaptation of value transport charges, signalling and securing of accidents on the motorway by a third-party service in Flanders and planned tests on the territory of the Walloon Region. All active groups are continuing their activities, and I am looking forward to their progress. As I said at the time I presented this essential police task plan, I proposed to come to committee about every six months to inform you of the developments in the various groups and to discuss the measures already implemented, within the framework of this very important project for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u47	Minister, that is an excellent suggestion. I believe that the President will ensure that this is included in our agendas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u48	Mr President, Minister, this question is a little related to the question I asked you earlier about the level of terrorist threat to law enforcement. You have certainly been informed of the arrangements made in some local police areas to allow their inspectors to carry their weapons of service while travelling outside their duty hours. I think you should have a meeting with the unions on this. We know that there are provisions that allow for the permanent carrying of the weapon for the police, but we also wonder whether the conditions associated with the carrying of the weapon are always adapted to the threat. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Under what procedure do local police areas decide whether or not to allow the carrying of a weapon by the police officer outside the police department? What are the limits of this out-of-service weapon? Is this limited exclusively as part of their home-to-work, home-to-work journey? Or has this been assessed in the light of current threats and extended to other movements? What procedure is determined for federal police officers in this regard? I was talking earlier about local areas; here I'm talking about federal police. A few numerical questions: how many federal and local police officers have been injured or killed during their service since 2014? How many did they do when they were not in office, but in a context related to their role as police officers? Finally, following your meeting with the unions, have you taken or intend to take initiatives to allow for a generalization of the authorization of the carrying of weapons by local and federal police officers outside their service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u49	Mr Minister, my question is of course on the same subject. I refer to the directive which provides that the Chief Constable may authorise the carrying of individual weapons outside the service. That authorisation shall be valid for a limited period, not exceeding one year, renewable and may be revoked, inter alia in the event of the disappearance of the circumstances justifying the staff member's application. Last year, you distributed a circular letter to all Belgian police forces stating that once approved by their chief of police, agents can take their service weapon home. This measure applies as long as there is an increased threat of terrorism. After the murder of a police couple in Paris, every member of the French police has to take his service weapon home. In the meantime, in certain areas of Belgium, it is recommended to do the same. For example, the 2 000 armed agents of the Brussels police will now be allowed to bring home their service weapon. The Corps leadership also asks to go to and from work, rather than in uniform. It seems logical to me, Minister, that, since the increased threat of terror, police people are moving to and from work in any case. Why isn't that the case right now? Can there be a clear directive that determines this? Secondly, in which zones did the Chief of Staff authorize him to take the service weapon home? Third, was a risk assessment carried out? In the past, many accidents have occurred as agents could bring home their service weapon. An investigation shows that 71 percent of the suicides investigated were carried out by police officers with a firearm, of which 60% were carried out with the police officer's own service weapon. In addition, there are other risk derivatives, such as theft, loss, or abuse by the police officer. Fourthly, a medical check must be carried out on an annual basis by the employer with the staff of the operational framework. He shall examine the necessary physical and psychological fitness for the performance of the function, including the capacity to carry and handle a weapon without being a danger to himself or another. Is this annual check carried out and monitored promptly? Fifth, how many weapons have been withdrawn over the past five years, because training and training have shown that the arms trade could be a problem? Finally, you sent a letter a year ago on that theme. You believe that the chief of police is the best placed person to judge whether or not to take the service weapon home. Do you think it's a problem that a police chief himself actively encourages staff to bring home the service weapon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u50	Mr President, the regulation on the arming of the integrated police – i.e. Ministerial Circular GPI 62 – lays down as a principle the prohibition of the wearing of regulatory weapons outside hours of service. It does, however, provide for two exceptions: on the one hand, the individual, temporary and justified authorisation for special circumstances relating to the exercise of the function and, on the other hand, the assumption of the movement between the home and the place of work carried out in uniform. The authorization is issued by the Chief of Staff for local police officers and by the Commissioner General or the Director General for federal police officers. Circumstances related to the performance of the function are threats against a staff member or family member, contactable and recallable staff member, etc. Authorization for staff members travelling in uniform between their place of residence and their place of work shall be issued by the same authorities. It may be general and thus apply to all members of the operational framework of the police force or be individual and may therefore benefit only those appointed. Wearing uniforms is a sine qua non for carrying weapons. In both cases, the issuing authority may make it subject to conditions relating to the manner in which the weapon is carried, transported and stored. In this regard, Ministerial Circular GPI 62 contains the measures that I recommend to ensure the safe conservation of weapons when they are taken to a staff member's home. Making the move to and from the usual place of work in uniform has certain advantages and is still happening today. It increases the visibility of the police. This measure is less appropriate in periods of terrorist threat in which policemen themselves are identified. It is always the Chief Constable or the respective Director-General who can decide not to wear the uniform for commuting or for administrative movements. Since the intervention in Verviers, the federal police have distributed to its staff a corps teaching indicating that these movements preferably do not take place in uniform. This general and specific directive has been repeated whenever a serious threat has arisen. The decision to take the service weapon home shall be taken by the Chief of Staff or by the Commissioner-General and the respective Directors-General of the Federal Police. For the federal police there are a total of about 1 900 employees who have been authorised. The vast majority of them, i.e. 1 200 staff, are members of DGJ and are therefore involved in terrorist cases. In the other units it is mainly staff who work in Brussels and in second order in other major cities. Within the time limits applicable to the replies to oral questions, it is not possible to answer the question of how many chiefs have granted the approval to take home the service weapon. For this purpose, all corps must be questioned. I would therefore ask you to put that question in writing, and we will provide you with the information. I answered questions 1, 2 and 3 from Mr. Pivin and questions 1 and 2 from Mr. Top. Mr Pivin, on your fourth question, we only have figures on the federal police. CGWB Safety Prevention Accident has a database on accidents at work. Given the context of the oral question, we present below a table showing the number of police officers injured on duty, particularly in response to violent incidents or in the event of driving, sports or training accidents. Fortunately, no federal police officer was killed in 2014 and 2015 as a result of violence against him. The number of accidents reported and related to acts of violence in 2014 was 167 and in 2015, 141. In 2015, 141 federal police officers introduced an industrial accident file following acts of violence committed by third parties outside the institution. These events resulted in 2,881 days' absence from work. In 2014, this figure was 3,864. The trend is therefore downwards compared to 2014. Of the 141 accidents recorded in 2015, 9 resulted in more than 100 days of work stoppage. 57 accidents resulted in superficial injuries. As far as the local police are concerned, I do not have the figures because this type of information is not centralized. Mr.Pivin, to answer your fifth question, to the Federal Police, for the years 2014 and 2015, no accident was recorded as an accident suffered outside the office and caused by a third party, as a result of the duties performed by the victim. Again, I don't have the numbers for the local police. Mr Top, your sixth question is the same as Mr Pivin's sixth question. For some time now, whether at threat level 3 or 2, I have repeatedly increased my recommendation for carrying the weapon when travelling from home to work. I am also considering regulatory adaptation to speed up and standardize decision-making in certain circumstances. Indeed, even if the local level is and remains best placed to deal with these aspects, it would still be good if, in general situations, the federal authority could immediately adopt uniform measures for the integrated police as a whole. Mr Top, I come to your third question. Again, the decision to take the service weapon home is taken by the chiefs of police, or by the commissioners-general or directors-general for the federal police. There is always an assessment of the risk. The danger to which you refer is real and is being considered more and more. Therefore, the granting of consent is handled with caution. As regards your fourth question, as a result of their security function and armament, all staff of the operational corps, in accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on health surveillance of workers, will be subject to the annual periodic health assessment by the occupational physician. This check shall be followed promptly. All I have here are the numbers of the federal police. On the basis of risk analysis, the federal police have 11 364 staff who are subject to such health surveillance. Of these, 11 023 employees were effectively seen in 2015 by the occupational physician, which was 97%. These figures take into account the situation as at 31 December 2015. To your fifth question, I can answer the following. The figures you are asking for are not kept. A survey shows that the number of weapons withheld due to insufficient results in training and training is very low. We are currently not aware of any such deductions. Efforts will always be made to retrain staff with problems before proceeding with the withdrawal of the weapon. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u51	Minister, your answer was quite complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your more than complete answer, but I would like to return to two points. Firstly, perhaps it would be useful, because of the short timeframe in which you had to answer the question about the figures and because they are not systematically requested, in the context of prevention and in order to know which weapons are taken home, to set up a central reporting system for the zones. They can then report that in their zone weapons were allowed to be taken home. In this way one has a view on whether these weapons are kept in private homes. Secondly, as far as risk assessment is concerned, I raised this question mainly because I myself experienced two suicides of police officers in my own city and corps, which was still a municipal corps at the time, with their service weapon outside duty hours. That is why I am asking you to follow this issue very closely and to make the risk assessment very sound. A weapon in the house is first and foremost a danger to the bystanders. There is also a risk of mishandling or manipulating the weapon and there is obviously a risk of possible suicide attempts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u53	Mr President, Mr Minister, I will not go back to Commissioner Vandersmissen's violent and otherwise highly publicized assault at a last demonstration. I would like to ask you about statements that followed the attack and that have been published, especially since these were issued by some senior federal police officers. Indeed, both the Commissioner who was the victim of the attack and some of his colleagues, senior officials of the federal police, have indicated that targeted assaults by police officers are "planned", that is their terms, during the demonstrations. Do you confirm that the police have information about targeted planning of attacks on our police during demonstrations? In addition, do you have an assessment of the trend of these acts of aggression in recent years, specifically since 2013? Finally, can you tell me what specific measures are currently in place to prevent such targeted attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u54	Mr Pivin, at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior on 8 June, I have already answered the various questions concerning violence against the police. With regard to targeted planning of police assaults during demonstrations, I would like to inform you that at the central level of the federal police, such information is not available. As you know, and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Functions of the Police, certain persons and groups are subject to special supervision by the police services. Those at risk who participate in an event are therefore given special attention. The collection of information by the police is also directed towards these individuals. As far as your second question is concerned, I propose that you submit the request by written question, given the rather short time limit. For the third question, as provided for in OOP 41, an adequate and appropriate police system is put in place by the police zone in order to avoid overflowing or to intervene in the event of an act of violence. The scope of this police system is the result of a risk analysis. It is always established on the basis of the essential information collected by the police services in the course of their administrative and/or judicial police missions. New initiatives are not planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u55	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u56	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of October 2015, the federal authorities decided to allocate additional resources to the cities and municipalities of Anderlecht, Antwerp, Brussels, Liège, Maaseik, Malines, Schaerbeek, Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Verviers and Vilvoorde for their plans to combat violent radicalisation. Today, this unique grant is also offered to other cities and municipalities in our country, including Genk, Courtrai, Charleroi, Saint-Gilles and Menin. In fact, recent data from the OCAM show that these cities and municipalities are increasingly facing this phenomenon. The federal authorities have provided €425,000 for these new grants after a memorandum of understanding with each of them and the Internal SPF. This amount is therefore shared between the five cities and municipalities at risk on the basis of a number of parameters, namely the number of foreign terrorist fighters who have returned, the existing expertise and good practices as well as the urban and geographical context. The following budget distribution was adopted: EUR 100 000 for Genk, Courtrai and Charleroi, EUR 75 000 for Saint-Gilles and EUR 50 000 for Menin. Minister, what assessment do you make of this leadership policy? In view of the current situation, are you considering extending these subsidies to other cities and municipalities in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u57	Mr Kir, the policy of impetus that I wanted to put in place is one of the initiatives in the fight against radicalisation. I think you understand that. As mentioned in your question, at the end of 2015, two royal decrees were enacted providing for a subside defined for fifteen cities and communes. The grant of the sum envisaged is subject to approval of the projects which the cities and municipalities wish to develop but also to additional conditions such as the development of supra-local initiatives or the establishment of an integral local security cell. These municipalities have one year from the signing of the Convention to develop the projects they have introduced. During this year, follow-up meetings are organized by the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention. These meetings provide an opportunity to exchange and share on the evolution of projects and on the difficulties encountered. It is therefore too early to carry out an evaluation of this policy of impetus, but I can confirm the will of the municipalities to develop various specific projects in the context of the fight against radicalisation. After the completion of these projects, one of the objectives will be to share the expertise developed with the other municipalities of the Kingdom that would not have benefited from this policy of impetus during the first half of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. When do you think you will get elements that would allow for an initial assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u59	As the signature took place on December 1, 2015, an evaluation could be made for the first quarter of 2017, after one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u60	Do you already have evaluation elements for municipalities for which memorandums of understanding already exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u61	My administration is following them. I can ask for an interim assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u62	I will ask the question later about the ten municipalities for which the project has already been launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u63	Minister, between the Canal Plan, Operation Medusa, levels 3 and 4 of the terrorist threat and strikes - especially in prisons - the demands for reinforcements from the federal police in the local police areas have become structural. According to many returns from the field, such as trade unions, the local police do not have the necessary capacity, as they must also guarantee the security of their territory. As a result, there has been some reluctance to send reinforcements to the federal police. You threatened financial sanctions, in the form of a reduction in their staffing, the police areas that would not cooperate. My question relates to the cost of these additional security measures, such as patrols and officers, and the additional resources provided to the federal police, for the local police areas and how these additional costs will be funded. Does the federal government intend to compensate police areas for the above-mentioned tasks and measures? If so, within what time frame and on what basis? I see it makes you laugh...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u64	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, week after week, I have to answer the same questions. That's how to spend your time! But if that is your desire, I am here to respond. 2016 brought with it several challenges that mobilized all integrated police services. Contrary to what you are saying, the reinforcements that resulted were not intended exclusively for the federal police, but were mainly for the other local police forces, as in Brussels. The Brussels police zone has great support from other local police areas. First of all, I would like to remind you that the current federal funding for police areas already takes into account the fulfilment of federal missions by police areas. So we must not overturn things. In the financing of police areas, because the HyCap phenomenon exists, the element of solidarity has already been included. To say that we are going to reward those areas that carry out these missions is, in my opinion, a little exaggerated. Section 41 of the IPA provides for the possibility of sanctioning police areas that do not comply with specified missions. The areas are paid to do so in a HyCap solidarity system. These police areas that refuse and do not want to provide capacity in this system are therefore paid for something they do not do. In recent years, the limit of mortgaged capacity has never been reached. We're close to 50%. For the first time, the system is under pressure. As I have already explained on several occasions, it is because we have to deal with four crises that put pressure on the police organization. We see an uneven contribution from the various police areas. This finding is made by the General Inspection. So we asked the Commissioner-General of the Integrated Police to adjust, together with the local police commissions, the MFO-2 directive on mortgaged capacity in order to be able to meet the growing demand for reserve capacity and, in a more equitable way. The reflection is in its early stages. So I can't announce any specific deadlines for the moment. I know very well, I realize, that the HyCap system, as formulated since the inception of the integrated police force, needs to be improved. I asked the local and federal police to build another system of solidarity. Until a decision has been taken or implemented on the new system, the old HyCap system will remain in effect. This means that areas are paid for capacity they should deliver. There is no question of adding resources for those who do, but we need to think about a way of acting for those who really do not want to comply with this system of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u65	Minister, thank you. I hear you're often asked the question. I guess you've got some feedback on the fact that this is an extremely high-profile problem right now. I imagine that most of the officers in the police areas are also telling you about it. We really get to the end of what's possible and the bills pile up. Patrols must be doubled since we are in a crisis situation, but there is going to be a problem for these local police areas in terms of what they need to finance in terms of police tasks. I take note of the fact that you will take initiatives regarding the current system of solidarity. It is normal that you should be asked about these questions. I will not hesitate to return in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u66	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the police personnel assigned to Brussels public transport, namely STIB. I'm going back in time to contextualize. Following the fatal assault of a STIB supervisor in 2012, 400 police officers had been assigned to support the security of Brussels public transport. It is our responsibility that the officers in charge of the Canal Plan will, at least in part, be punctured among those reinforcements that had been assigned as a result of the 2012 aggression. Minister, my first question is quite simple: can you confirm this information? Otherwise, where do you expect to find those 400 additional police officers promised? If so, has there been any consultation with STIB or the Brussels government on this matter? A colleague from the Brussels Parliament informed me of the reaction of Mr Pascal Smet, Brussels Minister for Mobility. He states that he is not aware of any protocol or agreement concerning these police reinforcements for STIB or taking part in the Canal Plan, that he would have written to you several times and that his letters would have remained unanswered. Maybe you've made a point with him since then. What is the state of play, the follow-up to the agreements reached in April 2012 in relation to STIB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u67	Mr Vanden Burre, I did receive the letters from Minister Pascal Smet on 21 April 2015 and 6 October 2015 concerning the follow-up of the Milquet Plan agreements. These two letters were sent to my administration. Since then, several agreements have become obsolete and/or have been implemented as a result of more current measures. Other measures are still under way. Similarly, the old situation is no longer comparable to the current situation. Thus, the approach to terrorism in particular requires a different mobilization of the police services. I will ask my administration to reply to this letter in a very short time and to take stock of the measures which have become obsolete and those which have been carried out and/or are still in force. However, I can already give you some answers. With regard specifically to matters relating to additional personnel for the Federal Police, 150 additional members have been provided for the Railway Police (SPC) and 250 have been assigned to public transport safety. A total of 400 additional staff were mobilized under the Milquet plan. Initially, thanks to the reinforcements of the Milquet Plan, the strength of the Brussels Railway Police had increased from 223 to 354. Due to the optimisation of the federal police, this number was then reduced to 290 (TO3). Based on this figure, the secondees currently working at SPC Brussels are the subject of new detachments to other police services such as LPA/BRUNAT, a police area under the Canal Plan, central services, DJSOC Terrorism. Fifty additional personnel have also been provided for the intervention force. With regard to the 250 additional public transport security personnel, I provide you with the numbers of the members assigned to the various units of the local police: 66 for POLBRU, 46 for Brussels-West, 46 for Brussels-Midi, 23 for Marlow, 23 for Montgomery and 46 for Brussels-North.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u68	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I hope to be able to take a closer look at all the figures I have not noted. In any case, the figures answer the question. I will examine them further and, if necessary, return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 12690 has been postponed, because it is only at this time that Mrs should speak in plenary. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 12715 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u70	Minister, this question is a repetition of part of my question in the plenary session last week, to which I did not receive an answer. On 10 November 2015, the ACOD sent out a press release from the common front pointing out that you had been being interviewed for months about the needs of the operators of the emergency power stations 100, 101 and 112. Apparently four letters followed, two of which were registered, but at no time have you answered the cry for help. The trade unions underline that neither you nor the competent cabinet staff have invited them and that the consultation is therefore non-existent. Did you receive the ACOD's letters on the sighs of the operators of the emergency power stations? Have you answered one or more letters from the ACOD? If so, what was your answer? If not, why not or not? Did you invite the Common Trade Union Front to discuss the issue? If so, when? If not, why not or not? Finally, if you have still not had discussions with the trade unions today, when do you intend to meet on this matter? The seriousness of the matter requires urgent action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u71	Mr Top, I have received two letters from the Common Trade Union Front, with a series of demands on various subjects. One of these subjects was indeed the emergency power stations. In the context of the project 112, my administration regularly consults with all the syndicates, in the context of the TOC, the intermediate consultation committee, and the BOC, the basic consultation committee. All problems are discussed in substance and as far as possible workable solutions are available. The problems which could hypothesize the operation of the centres can, of course, be scaled up by the administration to the political level. The sighs you speak of are about staff shortages. There are currently six operators in training. A further 16 will be recruited in the second half of this year. The selections for this are ongoing. I would like to point out that training as an operator lasts four months and that there are still three months of internship. So it takes a certain amount of time. I also asked my administration to see if it could be reduced, without losing sight of the safety and professionalism of the new employees. They have given me little hope that that time can be substantially shortened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u72	Thank you for your answer. However, I would once again urge you to take the initiative, if possible, to sit down with the trade unions on this issue. I also want to nuance your answer. It's true that there's a meeting at the TOC. You also referred to the consultations in the BOCs. The staff issues also affect the basic consultative committees, on the French-speaking side apparently not yet, but on the Dutch-speaking side. Those BOCs are not currently being organised, for the simple reason that there are currently no employees at A level who organise or prepare the BOCs. The problem that we want to raise, namely a shortage of staff, appears to be a problem even in the BOCs. So they're not organized. I therefore call for urgent consultations with the trade unions to be continued or organized in order to resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I spoke to this same committee a year ago to denounce the aberration of wanting to abolish the Central Environment Service of the Federal Police. Finally, this service has been maintained and I welcome it. As I mentioned in my speech last year, it is essential to have a national focal point in the field of the environment. Indeed, this service, active in the fight against international traffic in waste, trafficking in protected species and the illegal transport of radioactive waste, compiles data, establishes indicators and links with other cases in Belgium or abroad. Minister, while maintaining this federal police service is good news, I now wonder about the human resources available to it in the future. No decision has yet been taken on this matter. Could you tell me what the human capacity that will be assigned to this department will be? Will it take into account the fact that the materials processed are increasingly complex and require more and more collaboration between countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy for me to answer this question because Mr Gilkinet asked me the same question last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u75	Minister, I am sorry, but I am not in a position to attend all the meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u76	Mr Delannois, an Environment section is maintained within the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime (the DJSOC), particularly in the service of the National Security Plan. This section will deal with environmental crime and, in particular, waste fraud. The whole range of security phenomena, included in the NSP, in environmental crime deserves special attention as well as an integral and integrated approach in which the police play an important role. For these phenomena, the police will develop a programme-based operation, i.e. projects to improve their daily work. As stipulated in Article 95 of the Integrated Police Act, a programme will be developed by a team of eight full-time equivalents: a police division (the programme manager), two people for the network with the deconcentrated directorates of local police and partners (a police commissioner and a chief police commissioner), one person (normally a police commissioner) for the follow-up of the European multi-disciplinary platform against criminal threats or other supranational European projects such as EnviCrimeNet, the informal network for the exchange of data between states within Europol, three people for the management of tactical information and records (a chief police inspector and two police inspectors), and one person from the administrative framework. For each program, we have a team of eight people. A programme for monitoring the phenomenon could be supported by the Strategy Service and the National Security Plan. This service has 13 FTEs for the monitoring of phenomena thanks to the economy of scale of optimisation. A programme is planned for waste fraud. The other three areas (biodiversity, animal welfare and energy fraud) will be dealt with by the integrated police or the local police and the federal police, in particular the deconcentrated units. In all cases, a quality service should always be guaranteed within the framework of integrated police operations, in close cooperation with the federal and federated entities competent in these matters. Currently, there are four people in the Environment department: one division, two senior inspectors and one inspector. The organizational framework of the Federal Police is determined by the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 laying down the distribution of the personnel of the Federal Police. Given that it has just been set, I do not intend to change it immediately; nevertheless, my wish is that the federal police can act more flexibly with its personnel capabilities because the current environment requires more agility and flexibility in the organization. I have agreed with the federal police on measures to promote this flexibility. Adjustments will always be possible without, today, being able to determine precisely in which direction they will take place. Today, a royal decree must be taken, including the organic picture. Because changes in society are permanent, the organization of the police must be more flexible in order to be more able to follow different criminal phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u77	Thank you, minister, there was nothing perverse about my question. This subject has been passionate for a long time because I have presided over an intercommunal waste and from experience I know that, in this world, there are not just children of heart. Having an effective police force at this level can only do everyone good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u78	Minister, I have a question for you about delivering lists of persons to schools used to recruit pupils. In the past, educational institutions were able to request these lists from the municipalities. These are lists of persons of the municipality, including the names of children who may be able to attend schools in these educational institutions. However, this is no longer possible since the circular of 6 January 2014 and it is prohibited for municipal authorities to make such lists available. You have been asked several times about this. You have already replied with a reference to that letter which makes this impossible. However, we do not take that answer for granted. It does raise a number of questions. Under what circumstances was this change in the policy of delivering lists of persons to educational institutions implemented by your administration? Were any complaints made to the privacy committee? You say that recruiting pupils and positioning on the school market cannot be regarded as the core tasks of a school and as a task of general interest. In many cases this concerns the registration of parents with very young children who are not yet subject to compulsory schooling. However, this may be interesting for certain families, since this writing can contribute to the general interest of encouraging children to go to school early and to register in an educational establishment in good time. Do you agree with your administration's view of conflicting the provision of such lists and the pursuit of the public interest? Are you prepared to reconsider this ban?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, I must point out that the letter of 6 January 2014 concerning the delivery of lists of persons from schools is merely a reminder of the principles and limitations laid down by the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on obtaining information from the population registers since 1992. The letter also confirms the constant position of the former Interior Ministers from 1992 to the present day. So here the power of change hasn't really occurred. Following the reply to a parliamentary question on this matter in 2013, the letter was sent by Members of Parliament in the Chamber of the Interior Committee, which considered it necessary to reiterate the principles governing the delivery of mailing lists to schools based on population registers to municipal authorities. The answer to your second question should be given by the Privacy Committee itself. I can inform you about the recommendation 6/2012 of 2 May 2012 on the application of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992. That recommendation was issued by the privacy committee on its own initiative and, under point 43 of the recommendation, I quote: 'The committee is regularly reviewed by the municipalities whether they are allowed to provide such lists to schools, youth and other associations for the recruitment of pupils or members respectively.' In that recommendation of the 2012 -Rivalcy Commission, points 40 to 64 deal in substance with the conditions for obtaining lists of persons from the population register. In points 59 and 60, the issue of lists of persons to schools is explained as follows. I quote Rule 59. The College of Mayors and Ships should therefore exercise some caution in assessing the applications. The mere fact that an institution carries out tasks of general interest is not sufficient to provide its lists. For example, the assignment of a school consists in providing good education as a pedagogical project. The recruitment and positioning of pupils on the school market is not part of this core task. As a result, no lists can be provided to a school so that it can register pupils or parents of the last year of primary school personalised, in order to encourage them to enrol in it in order to start university studies. Such action is not part of the performance of a task of general interest. The Minister for the Interior can endorse this approach. I quote Rule 60. The above reasoning is in line with the principles of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy. In addition, Article 5 of that law must not be overlooked. It sets out a limited list of cases in which processing can be considered admissible a priori. In particular, attention shall be drawn to Article 5e under which personal data may be processed only where the processing is necessary for the performance of a public interest task or is part of the exercise of public authority entrusted to the controller or to the third party to whom the data are transmitted. Hence the requirement that the institution should explicitly state in its application the purpose for which the lists of persons are requested and that this purpose is within the scope of the general interest task carried out by the applicant. I understand, of course, your concern to offer all children a maximum opportunity to successfully start and complete a learning pathway in accordance with their individual abilities. An increase in the participation of children who are not yet subject to compulsory education in kindergarten is generally accepted as crucial to this end. This is part of the educational project of the Flemish Education Department and of the Flemish Decree of 30 November 2007 on the accompanying education policy at local level. This is therefore in line with the provisions of the Royal Decree and the corresponding teachings that lists of persons can be given to schools if the purpose is justified. This is also clearly stated in the aforementioned letter of 6 January 2014. I quote: 'The task of a school is to provide good education as a teaching project'. This is the task of the school of general interest. If, as part of its teaching mission, a school needs information from the population registers, e.g. in order to carry out a task entrusted to it by the Department of Education, this school may receive lists of persons. This also applies to the case where a school would ask for lists of persons in the context of a charitable, cultural or philanthropic purpose it pursues. It is therefore possible to provide lists of persons for the purpose of carrying out the teaching and legal purposes you have mentioned. Finally, it appears from the above that there is no need to revise the current regulations with accompanying teachings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u81	Minister, I questioned you about this about a month ago. Since the Law of 10 August 2015, the issuing of an identity card may be refused, revoked or declared invalid for persons who have been shown to wish to move to an area where terrorist groups are active. Firstly, how many identity cards have been withdrawn, refused or annulled in the meantime? Secondly, how many of those persons were granted a new card after the maximum withdrawal period of three months..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thirdly, how many persons were granted an extension of the measure? Finally, I believe an important question: what is the standard procedure for the OCAD, the police and the administrative authorities to follow up the persons whose identity card was withdrawn? The withdrawal of the identity card is, after all, one thing, but I believe that the follow-up of those involved is equally important. Last week, we read in a newspaper that the home control of returned Syrian fighters has finally been put in order, but that has also been delayed for a while. I believe that the follow-up and control are as important as the withdrawal of the identity card.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u82	Now you are throwing everything away, because your question is about people who have not yet left. In any event, in eight cases the identity card was withdrawn and in one case the issuing of the identity card has been refused since the entry into force of the law on the withdrawal of the identity card on 5 January 2016. Of those eight cards withdrawn, two were not renewed after three months and one card was renewed. The others haven't expired yet. In two cases, the duration of the withdrawal or refusal to issue the identity card was not extended. In one file, the issue of the new identity card is under way. In the other file, the issue of the new identity card has yet to be launched. In both cases, the municipal authorities were informed that the new identity card should be issued. In one case, the withdrawal of the identity card was extended by three months. In the remaining seven cases, the first three-month period is still running. In the context of the general follow-up of the persons whose identity card has been withdrawn by the police forces, by the administrative authorities and the OCAD, the instructions and procedures contained in the joint circular of 21 August 2015 of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice concerning the exchange of information and follow-up of foreign terrorist fighters from Belgium shall apply, in addition to the usual police succession. More specifically, the procedure for withdrawing an e-ID is laid down in the Law of 10 August 2015 amending the Law of 19 July 1991 on the population register, identity cards, alien cards and residence documents, and amending the Law of 8 August 1983 regulating a national register, and a whole series of other laws, of which it seems unnecessary to mention them all now. The OCAD shall give a reasoned opinion after consultation with the competent federal prosecutor to the Minister for the Interior. If the Public Prosecutor considers that the exercise of the criminal proceedings may be compromised by the measure, this is stated in the opinion. If the Minister then decides to withdraw, declare invalid or refuse to issue an electronic identity card, it shall proceed as follows. The Minister of the Interior shall inform the mayor in writing of the person concerned's whereabouts. In the event of a withdrawal, the mayor will instruct the local police to withdraw the identity card at the main residence of the person concerned. If the person concerned is not present, a message shall be left to the person concerned requesting that the identity card be surrendered. In the event of withdrawal, a replacement attestation shall be issued. That replacement attestation shall be equivalent to a certificate of, for example, loss of an identity card, in such a way that it is not stigmatising to the person concerned. The person concerned can still identify with that certificate and that certificate does not look like a red card, because it is the same form as for a loss. The person concerned will only be able to move in Belgium with that certificate, or at least that is the intention. In the event of refusal of the identity card, that certificate shall be provided by the municipality where the person concerned is present. The decision to declare invalid will usually be accompanied by the decision to withdraw the identity card. The declaration of invalidity is made through the services of the National Register, which cancel the electronic function of the identity card. The OCAD also informs the local task force so that the issue can be dealt with there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply and for your clarification that the persons whose identity card is withdrawn will be followed by the local police and other authorities. I used the example of the returned Syrian fighters to show that there should be no loophole in the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 12634 is considered withdrawn on the basis of Rule 127 (10), since he was not present during the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u85	Minister, the fight against transmigration in West Flanders is not new. In the past, I have asked several questions about this. In the field, you have always reacted decisively to transit migration, including the introduction of temporary border controls. That alert approach was recently praised by the governor of West Flanders. Yet the phenomenon does not appear to have disappeared. In the first week of June 150 transmigrants were arrested in West Flanders. The governor of the province of West Flanders has asked for additional support from the federal government, because the tourist coastal season is on the doorstep. In addition, he felt there was a need to react in various ways. Among other things, he is in favour of using drones and private security companies. I have the following questions. Have you been in contact with the governor? If so, when? What concrete commitments have you made to meet a possible new peak of transit migrants? Have private surveillance firms already been deployed on the territory to combat illegal migration? If so, where? What tasks do you think they can perform? Have drones already been deployed on the territory to combat illegal migration? If so, where? Can you explain the increase in illegal migration in the province of West Flanders? Are the latest figures going in the same direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u86	Mr President, the meeting between my cabinet and the West Flemish governor took place on 22 June from 16:00. It was agreed that the capacity of the intervention corps of West Flanders, the CIK, would be preserved for the operation Medusa. It was also agreed not to use the HyCap of coastal municipalities as far as possible at national level in order to enable them to carry out the increased activities involved in the summer holidays. With regard to the organisation to control the situation, the RAC is set up by the federal police. Follow appointments with the local police forces of West Flanders. Secondly, several control actions are organised on all known smuggling routes in cooperation with the local police forces of West Flanders. Finally, security at the port of Zeebrugge is provided by the shipping police of the federal police. A strategic steering group closely follows developments. This steering committee consists of the federal police, the local police, the Foreign Office, the Governor of West Flanders, my cabinet, the office of Asylum and Migration, and a representative of the ATS/SAT Justice. Again, no tent camps on our coast, unless camping for tourists. That remains my policy. To your second question, I can answer that there is no additional private surveillance planned outside the regular monitoring of existing infrastructures. Thirdly, the use of drones can certainly add value to the police tasks, although I have just heard from the question that not everyone agrees. At present no observation missions have been carried out in Belgium in the fight against illegal migration. I've asked the federal police to investigate this possibility. The co-operation between the Defense Department and the federal police was laid down in a protocol. The questions for operational and non-operational support are between the ATS/SAT Home Affairs and the ATS/SAT Defence. This cooperation is going very smoothly. I come to your fourth question. The main nationalities found in northern France are Afghan, Syrian, Kuwaiti, Sudanese, Eritrean, Iraqi and Iranian nationalities. The measures taken by the French authorities can indeed be expected to shift, but that is not new. It happened in the past, too. In May, 15 Moroccans, 16 Algerians, 45 Iraqis and 45 Eritreans were intercepted over the entire arrondissement of West Flanders. Until 25 June 11 Moroccans, 17 Algerians, 13 Eritreans and 52 Iraqis were intercepted. However, the largest group remains the Iranians intercepted around the port of Zeebrugge. In Zeebrugge we do see an increase in the number of intercepted Indians in June. They are found hidden in trucks. It can therefore be assumed that they are hidden in lorries in a domestic car park. In consultation with the federal police, this filière is also planned deeper in the country control actions. Over the last few months, the number of Western, Central and North Africans trying to reach Italy by boats from Libya and Egypt has increased sharply from there to their final destination in the EU, or soon outside the EU, namely the UK. In May even more irregular foreigners were intercepted here than along the western Balkan route. Traditionally, the influx from Italy has a greater impact on our migratory flows than the influx from the Western Balkans, which has almost completely stopped. That could explain the increase in irregular aliens on our coasts. The uncertainty about a possible Brexit and its consequences on migration policy may also have encouraged a number of irregular foreigners to try to make the crossing now. Until 25 June, 444 irregular foreigners were intercepted in the arrondissement of West Flanders. In May the number was slightly lower, namely 434.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic461x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and very detailed reply.
