ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u1	Mr President, this question dates back a little, but I wanted to keep it for a few answers, especially with regard to the contacts you have made in this regard. An American delegation came to Belgium to support the fight against Daesh after the Brussels attacks. The aim of this meeting was to improve the exchange of information on travellers via biometrics. It would appear that the US has offered assistance to Belgium in order to increase its cooperation with the Belgian government and intelligence services. Prime Minister, you had the opportunity to meet President Obama's advisor on internal security and the fight against terrorism during his visit to Brussels. Can you tell us more about this meeting? What subjects did you discuss with Mrs Monaco? Have you dealt with the current issue of NRPs, which has been approved by the European Parliament? Have any concrete measures been taken at the end of this meeting? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u2	Mr President, I did indeed meet Lisa Monaco, Barack Obama's special envoy, on May 11. We have, of course, shared our respective analyses and held exchanges on the development of ISIS at the international level. We also had the opportunity to confront the different analyses of the threat, in Belgium and Europe on the one hand, and in the United States on the other. I have had the opportunity to present in detail the thirty measures we have taken in recent months in the fight against terrorism, as well as their progress. It expressed a very positive appreciation of this ability to advance our arsenal in the security field in a few months. We have been able to discuss this issue of counter-radicalization. As you can imagine, the question of Belgium's military presence in the international coalition has been widely raised since we have just decided to extend the mandate of our F-16s in Syria. I took this opportunity to express our great concern and relay a number of messages that I have heard in the Security Council about the difficulty in some investigations of having access to information via Internet providers. If there is one plea that I have made, it is that of asking for US support for Europe to organise relations to internet providers so that they can make progress in investigations. The great difficulty is that national legislation is very different and does not sufficiently respect the basic criteria of privacy or personal life. This is the argument used by internet providers. Finally, I mentioned the question of the NRP. Very objectively, for Obama's special envoy, it is very difficult to understand the European procrastinations in this area! It is difficult to understand that we have a text validated by the European Parliament which is far from the initial ambitions of a number of governments, in particular ours, because there is a completely different approach, in the Anglo-Saxon countries in general and in the United States in particular, on the balance between security and issues of protection of personal freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for this answer. I hear and find it important that this kind of contact be established and perpetuated. However, in terms of counter-radicalization, were concrete measures proposed between the two?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u4	First and foremost, it was an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the intelligence and security services. Besides, on the sidelines of this meeting with Lisa Monaco, other more operational and technical meetings took place in parallel with the more political meeting between her and me. All countries, as well as the United States, are strongly mobilized to develop counter-radicalization strategies. Let's be clear! In the United States, as in Europe or Belgium, we are in the process of drawing up strategies on this issue. We therefore operate by trial-error on the subject. Let's stay modest! Even if there is a willingness to make progress on the subject, we find that on all the initiatives taken so far, not one has shown a perfect and unstoppable result. On the other hand, we agree that countries where the majority of the population is Muslim, especially the Arab countries, must also express clear and clear messages with the moral authority they can represent in the fight against terrorism, which the King of Jordan, for example, has done on several occasions. These are expressions, it seems to me, that can have a stronger influence than when a European minister or US Secretary of State speaks on the ground of counter-radicalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 12962 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u6	Mr President, for the ninth time in a row, the Belgian and Luxembourg governments met to discuss certain issues. Among the topics discussed, I suppose you mentioned Brexit and the future of the European Union. Can you, Prime Minister, debrief us at this meeting? Could you also present us with the avenues for solutions that have been discussed in order to revive the European Union? What was the reception of the Luxembourg side? Do you intend to propose these common paths that were presented at this Belux Summit to your European counterparts? Perhaps this has already been done and discussed at the Bratislava Summit. I understand that you also mentioned the migration crisis. Can you tell me if any concrete proposals have been made? Has the issue of anti-dumping in the EU been addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u7	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, at this joint meeting the various aspects of bilateral relations were discussed. Many functional ministers were present, which allowed us to consider the progress we have made on the various themes and to set targets for the future in the framework of bilateral cooperation. A communiqué issued at the end of the meeting provides a fairly comprehensive overview of the various points that have been raised. Your question is more focused on Brexit and the European question. On these issues, although a few weeks have passed since this meeting, we are on the same line. We believe that this decision of the British people must be respected even if we regret it. We believe that notification should take place as soon as possible in order to avoid a situation of instability and insecurity. Above all, we reaffirmed a common ambition for the European project. Belgium and Luxembourg share a certain vision of the future of the European project. We have mentioned this extensively this morning already: the issue of migration and security, economic development and recovery are at the heart of what needs to be done to boost the European project. I will highlight a particular focus, that of social dumping, which has been widely mentioned because it is a common concern between Luxembourg and Belgium. Yesterday, too, in the context of the Benelux Summit with the Netherlands, we had the opportunity to take stock of the progress made by the three countries together in the fight against social dumping. I would point out that three years ago, under the previous government, a common strategy was launched within the Benelux framework to strengthen joint controls, to try to harmonise certain modes of control and to try to set up a common Benelux card for companies in order to promote more lawful behaviour in terms of social dumping. Yesterday we received the report from the General Secretariat of Benelux, which informed us of the progress that has been made. It seemed to us that we had to go even further and that is why the meeting was set at the beginning of 2017 in order to implement this map which would allow us to better control the various companies affected by social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for these answers. I think this dialogue with Luxembourg is important. Both countries also have a role to play in renewing the European project. The fact that you're talking about it and carrying out projects together may be interesting. In terms of social dumping, I hear what has been said. This is important between the two countries, but it is important to be part of the Franco-German initiatives proposed in this area. Here too, there will be a whole series of measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that my question dates from the beginning of July, but I wanted to keep it so that we could address this important issue. A NATO summit was held in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July. During this summit, the Heads of State and Government of NATO countries were to chart "the way for the Alliance to adapt to the new security environment, so that NATO would remain ready to defend all allies against any threat, wherever it comes from." What are the main conclusions of this summit and the implications for our country? What positions did our country take during this summit? What budgetary, human, material and strategic commitments have you made for this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity, at a pre-sumption meeting at this summit, to present the position to be defended by Belgium at this summit. In general, we are satisfied with the way in which this summit took place. First, there were no major tensions. We could have feared differences of opinion between the allies, but that was not the case. I also found that the commitments we made under the Defence Plan have reassured our partners, particularly with regard to the issue of short-term capacity investments, to make it clear that there is a willingness to act both in the short term and to develop a medium- and long-term vision. The main message we wanted to express was that of a united, strong and responsible alliance. It was delivered. I also note that the density, in terms of content, of the final communiqué – 139 articles – shows that there is a sharing of convictions on a number of important points. I also note that the issue of the terrorist threat is now fully taken into account in NATO. I announced it before the summit: there is a very broad convergence of views to take account of new forms of threats, to take account of the evolution of the world in which we live. This reality is much more taken into account than before. With regard to defence and deterrence, we have made progress in implementing what was already expressed at the 2014 Wales Summit. Beyond the political decisions - I am thinking of the advanced presence in the Baltic countries, Poland and Romania - what has helped to reassure the Allies concerned very directly by this orientation is the number of nations participating in it. Belgium has promised cooperation in kind. In total, twenty nations have committed themselves. I come to another point that has also been mentioned: cyber defence. It is now an integral part of NATO's concerns. Finally, I was particularly struck, particularly at the dinner of the Heads of State and Government, which was organised, by the importance of the issue of relations with Russia. There is a need to strike a balance between firmness – clarity in the message delivered, in particular, about territorial integrity in a number of Russia's neighbouring countries – and our ability to dialogue with Russia. In fact, I pleaded that. As I recalled on the occasion of my speech at the United Nations some 10 days ago, Europe's aim is to intensify political dialogue with Russia. Indeed, many issues need to be discussed on the political and diplomatic front. The balance between firmness and dialogue is the key to moving forward and emerging from this general impression that political dialogue with Russia is not very intense. Finally, the issue of relations between the European Union and NATO was highlighted in a joint statement. This element seems important to me as it makes it possible to move from the logic of either the European Union or NATO to a logic of the European Union and NATO. These are the few things I wanted to discuss with you. In my opinion, this summit went well. On the cake for Belgium, I am rather proud that we managed to take advantage of this summit to obtain the decision that was communicated at the end of the work by the Secretary General of NATO. There will be a summit in 2017 in Brussels, alongside the inauguration of NATO Headquarters. This is a positive point in terms of the credibility and image of our country within NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your analysis of Russia, which, whether we like it or not, will remain a central element in the security architecture in Europe. I was more surprised by the recent English exit from the idea of a European defence since the United Kingdom literally buried this project. The creation of a pillar within NATO does not seem to me to be necessarily competition with the United States. Europe will have to give itself the means to enable our diplomacy to act outside if necessary, since we and the United States do not always share the same interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 13159 by Mrs Barbara Pas is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u13	Mr. President, Prime Minister, my two questions relate to the timing of the Brexit negotiations. I would like some clarification on this timing. We have already mentioned these points earlier, and I will not go back to them. On the other hand, I am much more interested in the other question. It concerns the interview you had with your counterpart, the British Prime Minister. This interview will of course have allowed you to discuss the British's sovereign choice to withdraw from the European Union, and also to discuss future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Prime Minister, can you give us a debriefing of this interview? Did your counterpart mention a date? We are talking about March, when his country would start the Article 50 procedure. Have you put a little pressure on them to activate this article and we can move forward on this issue? Have you discussed future trade relations between his country and Belgium? You visibly invited her to come to Belgium. Do you intend to take advantage of this visit to organise a meeting of Belgian and British business leaders as well? I would remind you that the United Kingdom is the fourth largest trading partner for Belgium. It is therefore important to organise this type of meeting to dispel all fears related to the consequences of Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u14	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I note with you, and we are both satisfied, that I had contact with Mrs Theresa May on the 27th, and that a few days later she clarified her intentions. I therefore have no doubt that the pressure I exerted during this telephone interview was particularly effective. The House can see that with me. That's the first point. Secondly, we have obtained some information which we have been asking for for some time. It has now confirmed that notification would take place before the end of the year. This is a new development: it confirmed that Britain would propose a scheme for future cooperation outside the existing models. It is therefore not a Swiss or Norwegian model. This information is interesting and useful. I obviously took advantage of this telephone interview to highlight the points of concern that are important to us. We have very strong economic relations with Britain and we wish to maintain them. I pleaded for consistency. This means that full access to the internal market is linked to the principle of freedoms that go with the market. In the message that was given a few days after this telephone interview, I understand that Mrs Theresa May wishes to leave Swiss or Norwegian models. It is an indication and also a form of first answer to the remark I have been able to make, together with others, on this subject. Furthermore, it confirmed that the acquis communautaire would therefore be converted immediately into British law, with the consequences that this implies. If it is converted into British legislation, there is a possibility of adapting this acquis communautaire by means of a legislative amendment in Great Britain. With regard to Belgium, in order to be operational, we have initiated two paths to prepare ourselves to play an active role in the negotiations. On the one hand, the Department of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister Mr Peeters, together with regional agencies and business federations, analyses the potential economic consequences depending on the type of cooperation. This is the focus on economic impact. It's a key point. I wish to be perfectly technically armed for these negotiations. On the other hand, I have asked Foreign Affairs to carry out the exercise in cooperation with the federated entities in order to draw up an inventory of political or other points of attention, i.e. non-economic, in order to be, again, prepared for these negotiations. This is the twofold path we are following: an economic focus and a political focus, in order to be as well prepared as possible for these negotiations, which will be important for the economic but also political interests of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you. I am pleased to see that collaboration is taking place with the federated entities. I think it's important, since everyone is concerned. I was even concerned because there was a certain linguistic imbalance in the working group set up by Minister Peeters. It is important that the Regions are involved and participate fully. As you say very well, this is a debate that will be important for the future of relations between our country and the United Kingdom and, more broadly, between the United Kingdom and the European Union. On the other hand, what worries me a little more is when you say that it is the United Kingdom that will come with a scheme for future collaboration. The European Union will have to take over the matter very quickly, because I imagine that the proposals that will be made will go in a positive direction for the European Union. It will have to be well balanced, both for the European Union and for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13304 was postponed. Interpellation No. Mrs Pas (COM). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. The answer to Question No 13465 by Mr Crusnière will be given tomorrow by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, if we have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u17	It's something that's imposed on me. I wish I had an answer from the Prime Minister. But I hope the Secretary of State's will be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u18	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13468 by Mrs Onkelinx, but she has announced that she will come later. Question No 13525 by Mr Crusnière will be dealt with in the Committee on External Relations. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13642 by Mr Van der Maelen. There is no Foreign Affairs Committee going on, but I will show clemency and see if he can make it in the course of the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, I have recently asked your Minister of National Defence, along with several colleagues in my group, about the uncertain future of military quarters in Wallonia and Brussels. As we know, the strategic vision is silent on the geographical location of military quarters, which will be reduced in the near future. On page 44 of this vision, it is stated that "an initial estimate has been made of a decrease in neighbourhoods in proportion to the evolution towards a defence of 25,000 full-time equivalents". By reading between the lines of this vision, and hearing many noises especially in the press, we are very concerned about the future of several Walloon and Brussels military districts following the transfer of military activities envisaged for the benefit of Flanders: the possible relocation of the Evere General Staff to Zaventem, the dismantling of the Royal Museum of the Army located in the Cinquantenaire for the benefit of the bases of Coxide, Brasschaat or Bourg-Léopold, the relocation of the logistic training centre from Tournai to Poitie, the announced closure of the military pharmacy in Nivelles, the uncertain future of two Brussels Defence fleurons, the Royal Military School (ERM) and the Military Hospital, but also the future of the bases of Florennes and Beauveachain. Your minister just told us that this will be a political decision that he could not talk about today. However, he acknowledged from his lips that there had been an initial estimate made by the army staff. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, the following questions. When does your government finally intend to shed light on the future of military quarters in our country? In this context, do you guarantee to maintain a balance between the three regions of our country from a quantitative and qualitative point of view according to the military capabilities that are there? Will local and regional authorities be involved? Do you also guarantee the establishment in our capital of the General Staff, the MRE, the Military Hospital and the major collections of the Royal Army Museum, including the aircraft collection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u20	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, as you mentioned, we hear noises, we read between the lines, and I would just like to start by saying that the rumour is in general bad counselor. What are the facts? The government agreement states that the future deployment of defence units will be determined by the number of personnel, taking into account the potential of neighbourhoods, costs and regional dispersion balances, also integrating the possible impact of subregional recruitment, integrating the well-being of the military, the territorial articulation of assistance to the Nation and also in the light of current or future multinational cooperation. Moreover, in the principles adopted in December 2015 by the Council of Ministers restricted and acted on at the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016 is the assurance of a regional balance during the implementation phase for the geographical distribution of staff and capacities. The principles that guide the reflection on neighbourhoods, I would summarize them in the following way. First, operationality: - priority of personnel for operational engagement; - outsourcing and rationalization of functions without military specificity; - the rationalization of specifically military functions without prejudice to a balanced geographical distribution; - the balanced distribution of capacities, as you said, both quantitative and qualitative. Finally, there is the question of the social aspect: it is necessary to avoid the unnecessary movement of workers and not to close down but to use the means rationally. We aim for a balance by taking into account a number of parameters: the great commands of the Earth component, combat aircraft units, maneuver battalions and support service combats, military airports, training centres, the field of exercise of the logistics support centres and a large and continuous presence in Brussels, I am thinking of the Defence Staff, for example. Decisions will be taken without haste. Behind each of the decisions, there are military personnel and their families involved. I will say one more word about the reform of the parastatals of the Defence. I hope that Parliament can, as soon as possible, be invited to vote on an ambitious but also balanced reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. In fact, if there is rumor, I think it is also due to the fact that there is some artistic blur that has been maintained by your minister for several months and that every time he announced timings that were not respected. It can therefore be understood that there are some concerns, particularly in some sub-basins, since it is well known that when barracks are closed, there are also socio-economic consequences for the region concerned. In the wake of your answers, I will allow myself to table a very constructive motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Sebastian Pirlot and Stéphane Crusnière and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Ms Laurette Onkelinx and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Sebastian Pirlot and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - if, within the framework of the geographical settlement plan, the government confirms its willingness to close military quarters, to ensure a balanced geographical distribution – both quantitatively and qualitatively – between the three regions of our country and a proximity to the employment areas and to take into account the potential impact on linguistic balance; - if, within the framework of the geographical settlement plan referred to above, the Government confirms its willingness to close military quarters, to ensure the full involvement of the social partners and the local authorities concerned, so that this plan takes full account of the socio-economic consequences of these closures, but also of the effects on the well-being, working conditions and family life of the military and civilian defence personnel concerned; - in this context, and from a European perspective, to assume the role of Brussels as the Belgian and European capital by maintaining the Brussels settlements of our National Defence, such as those of the General Staff, the Hospital, the Royal School and the Royal Military Museum, and to take concrete initiatives in order to follow up the wish of the High Representative of the European Union to see the establishment of a European headquarters in Brussels." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Sébastian Pirlot and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - if, within the framework of the implementation plan of the geographical implantation of the quarters, it confirms its intention to close certain military quarters, ensure that military quarters are spread in a balanced manner, both quantitatively and qualitatively, between the three regions of our country and are close to the employment areas, and take into account the possible consequences of that decision on the linguistic balance in the army; - to ensure that the social partners and the local authorities concerned are fully involved in this decision in order to ensure that the plan takes full account of the socio-economic consequences of these closures, as well as the effects on the well-being, working conditions and family life of the military and civilian personnel concerned; - to secure, in this context and from a European perspective, the role of Brussels as a Belgian and European capital by ensuring the preservation of the Brussels institutions of our national defence, such as the General Staff, the Military Hospital, the Royal Military School and the Royal Military Museum of the Army and the Military History, and to take concrete initiatives to meet the desire of the High Representative of the European Union to establish a European military headquarters in Brussels." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u23	Mr President, I would like to make a brief remark: for the problem of the simple motion, it would still be a good thing if we were to think about at least an argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u24	Not in this commission. We'll see later. The next item on the agenda is the joint questions put by Mrs Temmerman, Mr Van Hees and Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo would be on his way, so we are still waiting for those questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 13829 will be dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u25	Prime Minister, you represented our country during the 75th United Nations Assembly. During this week, many topics were discussed, such as the fight against terrorism, the management of migration flows, the fight against global warming, the resumption of violence in Aleppo and the situation in the DRC and Burundi. Prime Minister, can you give us a debriefing of your New York week? Did you take the opportunity to campaign for the Belgian candidacy to obtain a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council? How has your potential application been received? Have you had an opportunity to discuss the resurgence of tensions in several Central African countries, particularly in Burundi and the DRC? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u26	Mr Crusnière, between 19 and 23 September, I had the opportunity to have very many formal and informal bilateral contacts. For example, I met with the Presidents of the United States, Togo, Guinea, Bulgaria, Côte d'Ivoire, Colombia, Niger, Mali, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Palestine and, of course, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, as well as the Secretary-General of La Francophonie. In addition, I met with the Afghan Vice-President, the Prime Ministers of Romania, Canada, Georgia, Iraq, Luxembourg, the Head of Government of Andorra and the Foreign Ministers of Algeria, Rwanda and Burundi, as well as the United Nations Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura. I will summarize the four main topics that have been discussed, either during the discussions or during the multilateral meetings. The first theme is, of course, the issue of migration, which has been the subject of two particularly important meetings. One was organised by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who was attended by Ministers De Croo and Franken, who actively participated. The result was a New York declaration on migrants and refugees. The other event was organized by President Obama for a limited number of countries. Belgium, I would like to mention, was invited to take part in this, given its important contribution to the solution to the refugee crisis. I have had the opportunity to represent our country here, stressing the need to address the root causes of migration: insecurity, war and economic difficulties. I have highlighted Belgian efforts at the international level, but also at home, in the reception of refugees. I have, of course, stressed the essential issue of dignity and respect for human rights in this area, especially for the most vulnerable: women and children. Of course, I also had the opportunity to talk about the geopolitical situation in Syria. In particular, I had the opportunity to have a rather interesting debriefing with the special envoy Staffan de Mistura on the subject and, of course, the question of terrorism in general was widely raised in the various meetings. We continue to advocate in Syria for a political solution that leads to dialogue and trust Staffan de Mistura to carry out his mission. Another important theme is Central Africa. This is obviously a classic matter of concern for our country. You know our tradition on the subject. I think I have had clear messages in this context, through the speech I have given, particularly on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or in Burundi. I repeat that we believe that we need a certain date for the elections as well as a more inclusive dialogue than today. Everything must be done for stability and security. We cannot accept the recent serious acts of violence in Kinshasa. I have obviously used these days in New York to actively campaign on behalf of Belgium as part of our candidacy for the Security Council for the period 2019-2020. My impression is that our candidacy is welcomed, but I don't want to sell the bear's skin until I kill it. We have given the mandate and mission to the entire diplomatic corps to be fully engaged behind this candidacy. The various members of the government and of course myself, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the front line, will work actively to defend this candidacy in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. I am pleased that, in the context of this debate on migration, you have insisted – as I said earlier in the opinion committee – on the need to address the root causes and to involve development cooperation more closely in the debate. Indeed, too much attention is being paid to the security aspect at the expense of this aspect of cooperation. It's important that we do it. I hope you've been heard. As far as human dignity is concerned, it is important to recall: the situation in the camps is truly catastrophic, whether in Turkey, Macedonia, Lebanon or elsewhere. This is an important focus on which we must continue to put pressure. As far as Central Africa is concerned, I share your view on the closest possible election under optimal conditions. I think that tomorrow we will have an opportunity to discuss the government note on Central Africa, together with the Foreign Minister in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to go back to the Brussels Airlines issue, which is widely discussed in the press and which you discussed in plenary last Thursday. As you know, Lufthansa's supervisory board has decided to allow the German company to exercise its option of buying, the call, to acquire the 55% of Brussels Airlines that it lacks, an option that it could raise for the modest amount of 2.5 million euros while it had disbursed 65 million to buy the first 45 percentages. To reach this €2.5 million, Lufthansa relies on the Belgian company's debt. The same calculation, without debt to the German company, would have resulted in an estimated invoice of more than 140 million euros. In view of what is reported by the press, let us also remember that if Lufthansa does not theoretically need the agreement of the Belgians, Lufthansa would like them to sign a written agreement for this resumption, no doubt in order to protect themselves from any future legal inclination. This case raises many questions about the future of the company, its 3 400 employees (not counting subcontractors), the place of Brussels as a European hub and the ability of public authorities to intervene when such a flagship of our economy is threatened. Last Thursday, 29 September, you answered a number of questions on this subject in plenary session, setting out your objectives: the Belgian firm's foundation, the maintenance of employment and a decision-making centre in Belgium. These objectives are obviously commendable and we share them. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you about the means you are going to put in place to achieve these objectives, especially since you have real levers, public levers at the shareholder level. Indeed, Belfius, SFPI and even SRIB and SRIW (Regional Investments) are shareholders of Brussels Airlines and could act as levers in the discussion. Prime Minister, it appears that Brussels Airlines has had the financial capacity to repay this EUR 45 million loan. In autumn 2015, the subject was also on the agenda of a SN Air Holding Board of Directors where Belgian directors are the majority and represented by four people. If the three directors of Lufthansa were opposed to the repayment of the loan, the four Belgian directors could have forced their hand, which seems not to have been the case. What were the instructions given by the Belgian Government to its shareholders and to the representatives of the public shareholding at the time? A few months ago, SFPI reportedly attempted to buy back some of Brussels Airlines' shares (25%), which the Germans allegedly refused. Do you confirm this information and what are the reasons for this attempt to partially redeem the State? Is this option still possible in the future? Is it possible for SFPI to buy back shares of Brussels Airlines? What leverage do you intend to leverage in the upcoming negotiations with Lufthansa, apart from the talent of the negotiators you will appoint and the government? Will contacts be made with the German government? Will important political levers be used? More generally, would it not be appropriate to give stronger legal means to the Belgian State in order to strengthen its anchoring in the companies of which it is a shareholder? We know that systems exist. For example, in France, a law allows the state to have its right to vote doubled where it is a shareholder, giving it additional power. We could imagine taking such measures in our country. Are you thinking, Prime Minister, about measures that could strengthen the state's presence in companies where it is a shareholder?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u29	Mr President, first of all, as I said in plenary, the scope of the ongoing negotiations between the two companies was defined in 2008 and 2009. It was at that time that a mechanism was put in place that gave rise to what we are witnessing today. At the time, Brussels Airlines was in a more difficult financial situation than today. Air observers saw this rapprochement as potentially beneficial for the growth of SN Brussels Airlines and the development of its strategy. We note that the partnership with Lufthansa has been rather successful for Brussels Airlines in recent years. This is a relatively objective finding. Indeed, I note that the operational results are good despite the relative small size of SN Airlines which was able to join the Star Alliance. It was thus able to achieve many economies of scale. I want to be clear, too. These good results from SN Airlines are not only due to this partnership with Lufthansa but also to the efficient way in which SN Airlines management and staff have been able to work in recent years. They have demonstrated their capabilities and cost control in an environment that is extremely competitive, as you know. That was a first point I wanted to mention. As you also know, the federal government does not participate directly or formally in negotiations. As I said in plenary session, we are following the issue very closely, particularly through the Federal Participation and Investment Corporation. I have used the formula that I repeat: we intend to invite ourselves into the negotiations even if we are not formally present at the table. It is in this way that, for several months, I have had contacts of course with representatives of SN Airlines but also with the management of Lufthansa at the beginning of the year. I am trying to answer as fully as possible the questions you are asking, but at this stage a number of them are not going to give rise to answers, either because I do not want to put everything on the table before starting negotiations or because there are interpretation questions that are being asked. First, as far as your information about the autumn 2015 board of directors is concerned, this information is, to my knowledge, incorrect. That point would not have been raised. Secondly, contrary to what you say, to my knowledge, no offer to buy back the shares of SN Brussels Airlines has been made by SFPI. Thirdly, given the strategic and economic stakes, the acquisition or integration of a national airline, such as Brussels Airlines, requires follow-up with the parties concerned. It is in this sense that I have had regular contacts, as I have indicated, with the various actors on the file. You recalled the points of attention that I communicated in plenary session: Belgian anchoring, employment, the decision-making centre in Belgium. As I said a few days ago in plenary, I am not reassured by commitments that I find insufficient at this stage. It is the purpose of this negotiation to move the lines and ensure that there are stronger guarantees than those presented to us at the moment. We believe that the activities from Brussels and the post-integration component should be carried out in accordance with the company's current business model, i.e. a strong European network with long-mail activities and a competitive and quality product offer. I will not fail to inform Parliament regularly on the development of the discussions in question. Generally speaking, as a federal government, we try to behave responsibly when we are shareholders. This is how we launched a study on the management of state participations, to see how we could manage, better and more dynamically, state participations. I believe deeply in the principle of equality between shareholders. Perhaps that is one thing that distinguishes us, colleagues. I therefore believe that dialogue between shareholders should be given priority rather than coercive solutions. Finally, at this stage, the question of the entry of the State into Brussels Airlines is not the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your responses to the press reports on the Fall 2015 CA and on the buy-back. You confirm that this is not the case, and I take note of it. I understand that you have contacts, and I am not giving up your goodwill to meet with each other. But my concern in this case is different. We know that it takes levers to move the lines. There is a need for more guarantees; negotiation is good, but it is well known that at some point it is no longer the negotiator's only talent to advance the issues. We need to have more tools in hand. Here, the state - generally understood, whether federal or regional - has tools. That was really the meaning of my question. It seems to me that if we look at the history of the case, it is obvious that in 2008-2009 the incentive was not the same for Brussels Airlines. It seems to me here that public tools, whether via Belfius, via the federal holding company, or via regional investments, could probably have been better used. It's easy to say after the fact, but the state must maximize its role when it is a shareholder, when it has leverage opportunities in the negotiation. It is in this sense that I would have liked to hear a more proactive stance. However, I take note of your response in general. This debate is far from over and the state has a real role to play as an active shareholder in terms of job protection and the anchoring of our businesses; it must be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think you discussed this issue this morning in the Committee of Opinion, but I would like to come back to a very important issue for European Defence and for Brussels and Belgium. I come back to the remarks made by the Head of European Diplomacy, Federica Mogherini, who voted for the creation of a joint civilian and military headquarters in Brussels as a priority of the strategy for relaunching the European Defence project. We have the impression that this is not really on the agenda, and at the same time, those who believe in European Defence and the future of Brussels in this respect are all eager to make it a reality. Is there a will and energy from the federal government to support a process in this direction? Have any contacts been made with Ms. Mogherini? Are there experts in charge of feeding discussions so that this project can one day be realized? Brussels has a lot of expertise in military matters, which is obvious. But there are concerns. There is concern that Evere's staff will move to Zaventem. We are told that there are many studies on the subject at present. All right, but I just want you to know that there is a real concern and fear that we are disbanding towards other regions, whereas the idea is to concentrate on making Brussels the very heart of the European defence system. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u32	Madam Member, this idea of setting up an operations headquarters has already been put forward at a summit in 2003. It's an idea that's not new. The good news is that for a few weeks, a few months, and certainly after the vote on Brexit in Britain, the idea of a more European strategy comes back with a little more force. This is an issue that was raised this morning in the Committee of Opinions on European Affairs. At the Bratislava summit, we found that there was progress on this subject, but that does not mean that all European countries share the way forward towards a more common defence. The first step, it seems to me, would first be an effort to coordinate and further synchronize the presence in terms of operational capacity in the field abroad and defence investment strategies. This is what we have been doing in Belgium in recent years in cooperation with Germany, the Netherlands or France, where we are trying to bring together models of cooperation between European countries. To be honest, my impression is that a plea for a European headquarters is premature. This is perhaps an element that will come in a later process, in which Belgium and Brussels have advantages to put forward in the context of a strong and ambitious headquarters policy that is close to our heart, but formally expressing Belgium's position would not, at this stage, be understood by our partners and would perhaps even be counterproductive, given the process in which we stand. I would like to return to the fact that I am rather reassured and pleased that, on the sidelines of the Warsaw summit, it has been confirmed that there will be a forthcoming NATO summit in 2017, alongside the inauguration of the new NATO headquarters. This is a good example of Belgium's anchoring in its international partnership in the field of defence and with NATO in particular. Like you, I must continue the negotiating and concerted efforts under the leadership of the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, in order to see when this issue could perhaps come to the agenda, and what is the most appropriate time to bring forward the Brussels proposal with skill. For the time being, it is premature and I believe that it would be counterproductive to express an official position of the Belgian Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u33	Prime Minister, you have not answered me about the risk of the staff leaving Brussels for Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u35	In any case, if we really want Brussels to become the European headquarters, we must first keep all the tools in the capital. If we start dispersing them, it'll be a little more complicated. Then, of course, England is not a model for everything, but in terms of lobbying, it knows how to do it. I have never expressed the wish for a formal request to be submitted to a Council. Instead, I am thinking of lobbying so that, in due course, we can harvest the fruit for the benefit of our country and its strong position in defence, namely Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u36	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, a few days ago, we were witnessing the tumultuous departure of Members of Parliament Hendrick Vuye and Veerle Wouters of the N-VA. A few days later, the party decided to send an internal note to its members. In particular, it states: "No reform should be made impossible. The elector must receive all options in order to be able to decide. It is therefore normal that the Constitution should be opened for revision." This note is obviously not trivial. I imagine that the N-VA, following the turmoil created by the tumultuous departure of two of its members, and, above all, following their statements, wanted to reassure its base. You will remember that at the beginning of the assumption of office of your government, your Deputy Prime Minister, Jan Jambon, made great statements, very clear statements in front of nationalist students – he played cash. I think he told the truth, saying that constitutional agreements were hidden in what he called "the little Atoma notebooks." The story doesn't tell if it's actually small Atoma notebooks. However, it seems to me that, as far as you are concerned, you have referred to the government's nottels, nottels of majority. It doesn't matter what the words are! Clearly, we once again have a signal that converges with what must be included in your government's constitution agreement. Is there a majority agreement, Prime Minister, on the revision of the Constitution and on the articles that would be open for revision at the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u37	Mrs Fonck, the answer is extremely simple: no, there is no agreement in the government agreement or in any other document on how to envisage a possible declaration of revision at the end of the legislature. In this country, in the last legislatures, discussions occur regularly, at the end of the legislature, in the House, the Senate and the government, to agree on a list of items to be revised. It is only at the end of the legislature, as always, that this question will be considered and whether or not it is appropriate to determine a list of articles to be revised. It will then be the voters who will have to decide on the political plans. Under this government, it was decided to faithfully implement the sixth reform of the State and to focus on economic and social reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u38	Prime Minister, I will carefully keep in my little Atoma notebook what you have just said today. We must recall the procedure: indeed, at the end of the legislature, officially, publicly, both agree on the list of articles to be revised. Now there's a double bell sound in the majority. I hear your words, I take note of them, I take note of them...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u40	Two bell sounds, that is, two different expressions. Prime Minister, you did not take "cloche" as being... It was really the expression "two bell sounds" in French...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u41	I've heard many more, Mrs. Fonck...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u42	You know as well as I do that, even if my colleague from Groen looks up, the expression in French means "two different meanings". In other words, there are two versions in the majority. There's yours, I'll take note of it. There's the N-VA one, too. When I see the way and above all the reasons why MEPs Vuye and Wouters left the N-VA, it can only, in my view, mean one thing: if they agreed, in 2014, to enter the majority, it was that they had their assurances of obtaining a profound revision of the Constitution. It is also for this reason that several N-VA ministers, whether Minister Homans or Minister Bourgeois, have successively, for the last two years, also made statements, where they went even further, since they already announced the date of the dismantling of Belgium. History will tell us. I will carefully keep your answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u43	Mr President, very briefly, I think that several political groups, from the majority or the opposition, have some reflections on the institutional future of the country. Some argue, for example, for the regionalisation of education. Some argue, for example, for reorganizations of the Francophone area that require constitutional changes or changes to a two-thirds majority. That is the debate in political parties and not just in one political party. In many political parties, there are reflections on the institutional future. There is, in any case, a certainty: throughout this legislature, the sixth reform of the State will only be carried out, without deciding on further institutional reforms or reforms of the State. Very classically, I want to say almost banal in comparison to the last legislatures, at the end of the legislature, there will be a political moment for Parliament – the House and the Senate – and for the government, including the majority, to assess whether or not a declaration of revision of the Constitution is voted on and approved by the three bodies. As you know, the Constitution provides that it is the common list of articles that makes the decision. At that time, the debate will take place and, at that time, decisions will be taken. I'll be very clear. Would there be any prior or prior agreements or secrets on this matter? There is no prior, prior or secret agreement at this stage. That does not mean that the debate will not take place. The debate will of course take place, as has always been the case in recent decades, I think, with regard to constitutional reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u44	Prime Minister, you once again recall the procedure and I agree with you. The theoretical, public procedure is indeed that. Everything else is, I repeat, at this stage not to put on the table what could have been agreed upon in the constitution of the government. When we take up the words of the N-VA, we clearly see two versions: yours and theirs. This is of course what I am talking about, which could have been concluded at the beginning, when the government was formed and these majorities were put in place, with the articles that could potentially... Mr President, while I'm talking, I see a part of it. I don't have a problem, we can have a little tea too, if we want! Prime Minister, there are two versions: yours and the N-VA. The story will soon tell us who was right. But what interests me is the citizens and, at some point, honesty and transparency would like us to work on an open book. These Atoma notebooks, I think they should be put in the public square. It would be fair to be honest and transparent with regard to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u45	Mr Calvo, I will close the incident, but I understand very well that you would like to open the debate on this. However, it is neither a place nor a time for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u46	Minister, I will come back to budgetary matters to surprise the Minister of Finance's comments on the systematic underestimation of tax revenues. I read the small note that the Minister of Finance posted on his website as well as the note from the FPS Finance. Recognizing that tax revenues have been overestimated and saying that they have been for many years, proves that there is a budgetary management problem that concerns not only the Minister of Finance but also the government, which is why I am addressing the Prime Minister. This is worrying in view of the sound management of public funds and the quality of the fiscal year, and this involves the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. The statement is not annoyed. Conclusions need to be drawn. Prime Minister, can you tell me if you have read the Minister of Finance's small message and the FPS Finance note that the tax revenue figures presented in recent fiscal years are incorrect? Do you also feel that the responsibility of the Minister of Finance is incurred in relation to a finding as serious as he presents lightly by complaining that he is the victim of a media and political kabbal? Given that the budgetary discussions are timely, did you take the time again last night to discuss this issue in Kern? What is your conclusion? How will the incorrectness of the figures be taken into account? Will you reduce the expected revenue and thus increase the deficit further and how high? Or will you finally question the reasons why revenues do not match forecasts and implement the means necessary to improve tax collection? Thank you in advance for the answers you will give to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u47	Mr Gilkinet, I have obviously taken note of the note you are referring to in the FPS Finances. This note does explain the need to take into account a safety margin for estimating revenue in the preparation of the 2017 budget. The main reason, as you mentioned, is that the study and documentation service has seen in recent years that there is a difference between the forecasts of the macroeconomic parameters which serve as the basis for drawing up the budget and the observed changes in these different parameters. This margin of security would therefore be intended to anticipate a future downward revision of macroeconomic parameters in a cyclical environment that makes forecasts complex. On the other hand, like you probably did, I also read the last report of the monitoring committee, in which the FPS Finance is represented. This report, which, while it does not call into question the inclusion of a safety margin in the estimates, points out that the manner in which the head of the study drew up his own is questionable on several points. I refer here to pages 4 and 5 of that report. In any case, on the basis of the various elements, the report of the monitoring committee, the various notes of the FPS Finances, it is up to the government, in the context of the current budgetary work, to take decisions and we are currently analysing the desirability of including in our budget work a possible margin of security. The question of how to identify this margin of security or the question of its opportunity or scope is the subject of our work and we will not fail to communicate to Parliament as soon as decisions are taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u48	Prime Minister, you're answering a little next door. I distinguish between the note of the FPS Finance or the opinion of the monitoring committee that I read with interest and the political statements of the Minister of Finance who claims and assumes that he has presented figures that are false at the time of the budget development and who is a bit of a practice in the policy of burned land saying that it has always been like that. In the management of a public entity, in this case, of the federal state, I find these to be extremely serious. Is this a way of defending the Calimero by saying, "It's not me, it's the others, we've always done this way"? I find it serious that a Finance Minister, who is primarily responsible for the revenue side of your budget, states that he presents false figures to Parliament and, after that, to the European Commission. I find it serious that he does so in conscience, trying to wet all those who were there before, including, for example, Mr Reynders, who served as Minister of Finance for ten years, and that no conclusions are drawn from it other than "continue to conduct the fiscal year as if nothing had happened". I find it damaging to the credibility of the current exercise that as Prime Minister, you covered such words, without making them clear, not to mention the correctness of the words you put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u49	Mrs Temmerman is abroad and Mr Van Hees has been here, but has left again. So I give you the floor, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, I apologize for my somewhat late arrival. I have, I believe, a good reason for that: I was questioning your energy minister. As you may be aware, her functioning requires quite a bit of control and follow-up. The step of one care child of the government, Mr Van Overtveldt, to the other care child of the government, Mrs Marghem, has been taken rather quickly. My question to you is specifically about the nuclear convention on Tihange 1. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Your minister has been quite under attack, particularly in the French-speaking media. It was suggested that there would be another HR problem at the MR. I think there are rightly questions about the functioning of Mrs Marghem, because I repeat, the much-discussed Convention on Tihange 1 provides for a certain nuclear contribution and the Minister has received for almost a year signals from our energy regulator that the implementation of that convention would not be evident. I've got the whole timeline here with me. The CREG already informed it on 9 October 2015. However, it has taken until September this year, before formally taking steps with the operator, which has led to a whole debate on potentially unincorporated millions. The reason I'm questioning you here is twofold. First of all, as captain of the ship, you are of course the man who has to judge the functioning of your government members. If there are systematic questions about this, they deserve a parliamentary question. Secondly, you may be expected to play an active role in the dossier. The conventions were signed at the time by your predecessor, Mr Di Rupo, and the then Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Wathelet. The tradition is that it is a duo job, say, of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy. You yourself were informed of the problems by the CREG on 29 June. You say this is true. I also assume that Mrs Marghem has already told the truth in that regard, which is a good thing. You were informed on 29 June. Then the question is, what did you do? I also asked Mrs Marghem that question and I read the report. "In memory, in July, he sent an e-mail to our firm and he also participated in the IKW on 19 and 23 September." From the energy minister's reply, I conclude that your role and that of your cabinet was limited to sending an e-mail to the functional minister about these problems and participating, like other Cabinets, in the IKWVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV Allow me to say that this is pretty skinny. This is not exactly an active interpretation of a duo track. I expected you to do more to collect the necessary millions from the nuclear operators. My questions are as follows, Prime Minister. Do you still support your energy minister, even after this new problem dossier? What is your attitude to the lack of follow-up? There was also some nervousness in your majority's lap. There is now the element of state aid. The Minister has always persistently denied this. According to the Commission, there were no elements of State aid. We have debated this during hours and during nightly meetings. The Council of State was ignored by the Minister. It now appears that the European Commission indicated at the beginning of September that there are elements of state aid. I'd be surprised if you didn't have a strong opinion as captain of the ship. Is what the Minister has said, namely that your role has been limited to sending an e-mail to the functional cabinet? Finally, why, as Prime Minister, have you not been more active in following up this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u51	Mr President, Mr Calvo, on 12 March 2014, the previous government, together with Electrabel and EDF, signed a convention on extending the duration of Tihange 1. This convention introduces a mechanism to allow for the calculation of the amount of the contribution to be paid by operators throughout the duration of the extension. I will not go back to the complete course of events. You had an exchange of views with the Minister for Energy on the committee last week. What are, very briefly, the facts? At the end of 2015, the independent regulator, the CREG, found that the formula chosen by the previous government posed several problems. On 15 and 22 April 2016, Electrabel and EDF together pay 7.2 million euros to the Belgian State. This is the amount they considered to be due for the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015. The CREG shall analyse revenue and costs in accordance with its audit mandate. On 29 June 2016, the CREG will send its report to the Minister of Energy and my cabinet. In its report, the CREG questions five elements of the calculation, two elements related to the determination of the product of the sale and three related to the operating costs. On this basis, she created several scenarios. My cabinet interviewed the minister's cabinet for the first time even before the CREG report was published to remind you of the content of the convention. That was an e-mail message dated May 10, 2016. Following the publication of this report, my cabinet contacted the minister's cabinet once again. My cabinet was then informed of the fact that an employee was in charge of the swift handling of the file within the minister's cabinet. Later, there were contacts, notably through intercabinets on matters other than the subject in question, during which the minister's office provided information that it was likely that an expert would be appointed in this case. I would add that of course it was necessary to analyse the situation in order to properly measure the various options proposed by CREG. These points, I believe, have been very long and passionately clarified in committee by the minister. Since the dialogue between the Minister and the operators did not lead to a negotiated solution as to the amount due, the Minister sent a letter to Engie and EDF on 13 September, two days before the 15th, claiming a total amount of EUR 10.2 million, the maximum amount applied for by the CREG. On 16 September, the operators replied to the Minister that they were contesting the amount of EUR 10.2 million claimed as a royalty. As provided for in the agreement, the minister has proposed to the parties the appointment of an expert to objectiveize the debate, which, as you know, Electrabel and EDF have agreed to. Following the discussion or controversy, of course, I personally requested that the necessary steps be taken to finalize the appointment of this expert as soon as possible. The government's position is therefore very clear: if it appears that additional amounts are due, we will ask the operators to pay the balance. It goes without saying that we are defending the interests of the Belgian State. Finally, since then, as you certainly know, the parties have agreed and the Roland Berger office has been designated. We should quickly have the expert's conclusions, since his mission should end on 17 October. As you have understood, if this expertise leads to the conclusion that additional amounts are due, the Minister of Energy will ask for them, as she undertook before Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u52	Prime Minister, I should like to apologize, because I have wrongly accused you of negligence. I was so naive to base myself on the statements made by the Minister for Energy last week at the committee meeting. She said, as I quoted, that your cabinet only played a role in July, following the letter from the CREG of late June, and only in second place with the Interkabinets Working Group in September. You tell me, Mr President, that is a very important element for me, and that is why I insist on correcting it, which you asked the Minister of Energy to follow up as early as May, in order to tackle these problems. Do you find it strange with me that, if the CREG has been warning you of problems since October 2015 and you have been warning you since May 2016, the competent minister will wait until September 2016? That'll damage you, too. I am very sorry, but I would not accept as Prime Minister that a functional minister with regard to a parliamentary committee is not telling the full truth about the involvement of the Chancery and the Prime Minister's cabinet. She did not speak in committee about your active role in May. That active role was in place, but it apparently did not encourage her to take any action. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u53	Mr President, allow me to comment very briefly on this. I certainly don't want to start a polemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u54	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u55	In French, they say, "The string is too big." There is no contradiction between the message delivered today by Marie-Christine Marghem and mine. I am completing your information, since you are asking me specifically about my firm's initiatives. I would point out to you that even before the publication of the report, we were obviously vigilant and that we had drawn the cabinet's attention to the future publication. It is understood that actions could only be taken after the publication of the report. Technically, it is on its basis that we can see how to act. Contacts between firms can be established by e-mail, but – as you can guess, dear colleague – they can also be taken into working meetings with experts in the field. In this case, my office has ensured that the case is properly handled by Minister Marghem, as was the case. One of its advisers was responsible for follow-up. You have had access to documents that show that the Minister and her office have been in contact with CREG, following the release of the report, for clarification. This was the case since, before 15 September, a letter was sent to the interlocutors, which is based on the CREG report and the amount of EUR 10.2 million. In the continuation of the operations, it is noted that, following the challenge of the amount by the operators, the appointment of an expert has become necessary. I want to play transparency. Several jurists may debate on 15 September to determine whether this was a strict or orderly deadline. In any case, what matters is that the process was consistent with the convention to ensure that the CREG report could be analyzed and our interpretation addressed to stakeholders – which we did before the 13th, in a process of appointing an expert. On the 17th or 18th of October, we will have his conclusions. I have no doubt that they will give rise to exciting and passionate debates in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u56	I think this is rather an answer from an MR politician than from a prime minister. I think that as Prime Minister there is only one message that is appropriate: if I, as captain of the ship, ask the Minister of Energy, with already quite a bumpy course, to deal with that dossier quickly, she should not wait until mid-September or end-September. In my view, that is the only logical answer from a Prime Minister, otherwise you will again condone negligence on the part of the Minister for Energy. You refer to passionate parliamentary debates. Honestly, I'm sick and tired of these passionate debates with the energy minister. For over a year, MPs of majority and opposition have been asking this passionate minister to write, passionately, an energy pact full of passion. However, the only thing I get is an energy minister who has to come again and again, passionately, to explain her falsehoods and half-lies. If you do not want to whistle back the Minister here in committee, please do it incredibly clearly behind closed doors for once, because this must stop. An important area such as energy deserves a better approach and more seriously, a different minister than we have today. I am really sorry that she has also caused confusion about the role of your cabinet in this matter. That is not what we do when it comes to the Prime Minister and a fellow party member.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, our group is not only there to control, but also to inspire and encourage. In an up-to-date question in plenary, I have already mentioned the intention of moving to a national investment plan, the light of a dark political summer. It's the best idea in a long series of ideas from your government. I am delighted that it also reached the agenda of last week's Consultation Committee. I would like to take this opportunity to put your finger on the concrete implementation of the national investment plan. I also welcome the fact that the Consultative Committee deals with such issues and subscribes to a genuine form of federalism of cooperation. I know this is a bit against the nature of some people around the table, but I'd like to encourage you to continue. I am also quite delighted about the three axes that were defined. As I understand from the media, it would be about mobility, the energy transition and the digital agenda. These are three axes that our people, our citizens and our businesses can offer hope and perspective. So at this stage I am quite positive about it. I also insist on expressing this, even though the outstretched hand of the opposition has not been answered for the time being by means of some kind of formula. That was part of my question in plenary two weeks ago. What is ultimately the specific objective of the national investment plan? Is it short-term or long-term investments? You mentioned the year 2030 in plenary. As an ecologist, of course, I think it is wonderful to look ahead and give a voice to the future today, but I would also encourage you not only to work towards 2030 horizon. Concrete investments are also needed for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. For those years too, we need governments that work together. What would be the budgetary size of the investment plan? Can you give us any indication about that? How does the effect of the ash energy range relate to the creation of an energy pact? It won't surprise you that I don't mind you pulling it towards you, as the Energy Minister is stalling for so long. I refer to our discussion just now. What concrete arrangements have been made with the Regions and the Communities? I read in a newspaper that this was a bit difficult for Mr Bourgeois. It was against his beliefs to actually work together in this country. What agreements have you made to achieve this cooperation? Finally, an investment plan for the future also deserves an approach that is forward-looking, open and participatory. It is not only the involvement of Parliament, including the opposition, that is necessary. After all, an investment plan is not just written for the present legislature. Let us hope that we will not be stuck by the same majority in the next legislature by definition. It would therefore be a good thing if you were not only looking for a broader policy, but also for a broader public base. What role do you see for civil society and the academic world in drawing up such a national investment plan? The aim is not to turn it into a talk barracks, but rather to ensure broad public support. I would like to reiterate that the intention is to give impetus in the short term. When we look at job creation and budget, that is absolutely necessary. Indeed, the share of investment is significantly lower than elsewhere in Europe. So I'd like you to step up on that. My question is an encouragement, to put that into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u58	Mr President, unfortunately my first observation is that in Europe as a whole, but also in Belgium, too little investment has been made in recent years. I am thinking in particular of strategic investments for the future. That is a general observation. I am also convinced that a strategy for achieving results in the socio-economic field involves three key aspects. A first part is the reorganisation, which is certainly not evident, certainly not in a situation of budgetary pressure throughout Europe. A second part is structural socio-economic reforms. For example, the tax reform and the tax shift, as well as the reduction of the burden on labour, were intended to have concrete positive effects on job creation. A third part is the investment. My analysis is that, in recent years, at European level, the emphasis has been placed more on restructuring and structural reforms, but too little on strategic investment. That's my initial determination and my basic reasoning. I therefore call for a strategy to do more in Belgium towards strategic investment. I give the various important elements. Firstly, there is a European aspect. I note that today the rules on budgetary control by the European Commission can be a brake on the strategic investments of the various European countries. I have taken the initiative very discreetly over the last few months and have had many discussions at European level. For example, a few weeks ago, I had a chance to have a long conversation with Jean-Claude Juncker. I have strongly advocated that more pragmatism should be used to explore how we can free up funds for strategic and structural investment. I also have the impression that the momentum is there at European level, as far as that is concerned. As part of a discussion with Chancellor Angela Merkel, I had the opportunity to put the points in order. Even in Germany there is a need for structural investment for the future. That is also an important element. I have the impression that the political lines are moving at European level. I am trying to use the momentum to play a positive tractor role at European level. As far as the European dimension is concerned, I believe that cooperation with the Länder can help us to take into account their concrete projects, in addition to the concrete projects at the federal level, on investment. Secondly, there is governance. We need to examine the possibility of building, alongside the Consultative Committee, a strategy within which we can be supported in order to make the strategy sustainable. This is, of course, about different legislative periods, not just about this legislature. I have a short, medium and long-term reasoning. That is a 2030 perspective. However, this does not mean that we will wait until 2030 to do anything; we can start, initiate and launch projects immediately, in the short term. The Consultation Committee is the best political place to organise a dialogue, a synchronisation and coordination in an ambitious strategy for investment. The last meeting of the Consultative Committee was an opportunity for me to make points, officially and formally. We have taken a decision of principle to say yes to an investment path. The intention is to continue work on two concrete points in the coming weeks, including, first of all, the governance. How, for example, can we set up a strategic committee? Who should join them? In my view, these are academics, people with financial or economic experience. What is the position of the social partners in this? Is there any form of consultation with the social partners? I am open to your proposal to involve Parliament in the strategy to find a good form. The second point that needs to be taken forward is consultation with the sectors. I note that there is a spontaneous consensus on the sectors concerned. These are three, in particular the energy sector with a view to energy transition, mobility and IT. In addition, some Länder, some members of the consultation committee, consider that additional sectors should also be included in the strategy. I'm stubborn. I intend to work on this, not only at federal level, but also within the framework of the Consultation Committee. I want to do everything I can to convince everyone that a voluntaristic strategy is needed. I'm going to do everything I can to get the first results as soon as possible. The question of the financial envelope will have to be resolved in the course of the process, in a dialogue with the Länder. We need to be more clear about what is possible in the financial field. The budgetary situation of our country and its evaluation are also the subject of a dialogue with Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have not been able to answer all my questions, but I respect that at this stage. It will not surprise you that I will return to this at a later date. I have some elements of reply. You're right when you say the spirits are ripening. The discourse shifts from an almost compulsive restructuring drive towards a more nuanced and spread story in which investment is also gradually getting a place. I believe that a lot of valuable time has been lost both in Europe and among us by an over-focused focus on clean-up. It is a good thing that the discourse is shifting. Now it is still important to ensure that policy also shifts in the facts. I do not want to look up the polemic unnecessarily, but I see the short-term investment neither at European level nor at Belgian level. I'd like to encourage you to put that into practice quickly. Secondly, you are right to say that the Consultation Committee is a good place to encourage this. We have already called for the Consultative Committee to be turned into a cooperation committee and for the party political differences and the language spoken to be more active than is the case today. An active role of the Consultation Committee is a good thing. You also advocate a role for social partners and academics. That's fine. You are also open to a role for Parliament. That's also important news. If you had a next meeting of the Consultation Committee on these two points, it would be good to schedule a session with you in the Chamber, where everyone can discuss this with you openly. Finally, I would like to encourage you to put into practice some of the elements you have mentioned today in the coming days in Hertoginnedal. It is quite unique that the opposition welcomes you so much; let us not wait until the national investment plan to adjust the recipe and to give oxygen to our economy. In any case, I believe that the three axes that have already been mentioned are energy transition, digital agenda and mobility, which can also be included in the budget. I think it is logical that you do not yet tell us what you intend to do with the budget, but I hope you will find it logical that I encourage you to translate your words into action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 13642 by Mr Van der Maelen has been postponed and Questions Nos 14074 and 14075 by Mrs Ben Hamou are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u61	Prime Minister, on 6 July 2016, the European Directive on Network and Information Security was adopted. The aim of this Directive is to increase the cyber security of the Member States of the European Union, and for that there are rules which impose obligations on both Member States themselves and specific companies of the Member States. They are mainly obligations vis-à-vis the companies that are relevant to this question. The directive selects two large groups of companies: on the one hand, the market participants on the critical infrastructure were already talking about this in the framework of the Centre for Cybersecurity (Cybersecurity), on the other hand, the providers of digital services such as e-commerce platforms and search engines. In general terms, the obligations vis-à-vis these companies are twofold. On the one hand, adequate security measures will be required to ensure the security and continuity of networks and information. Especially for those companies already covered by the Critical Infrastructure Act, this will not make much difference. On the other hand, companies will be required to report serious cyber incidents to national authorities. The European Directive responds to a European trend that should enable public authorities, on the one hand, to ensure a clear understanding of the risks of cyber incidents and, on the other hand, to better protect vital interests. Prime Minister, I have a number of questions. What progress has been made in Belgium in transposing the NIS directive in relation to the public authorities and companies established in Belgium? Can you give a timing for this conversion? Do you think it makes sense to go beyond this directive and to make more companies subject to reporting? If so, which sectors are you thinking of? Do you intend to take concrete steps to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u62	The CCB is responsible for transposing the European Directive on Network and Information Security. The NIS Directive provides for a relatively long transposition period of 22 months, until 10 May 2018, and an additional six months for the identification of essential service providers. These deadlines should give suppliers time to adapt to the new requirements of the Directive. According to the Directive, the draft transposition will apply to the providers of essential services established in the national territory and to the providers of digital services whose principal place of business is in Belgium. This Directive provides, inter alia, for reporting of incidents that have a significant impact on the continuity of essential services. The sectors explicitly targeted include energy, transport, finance and telecommunications. With regard to the application of the Directive to public authorities, the safety of public administrations remains a competence of each EU Member State. It follows from that principle that the public sectors could not fall within the scope of the NIS Directives. However, during the work on drawing up the NIS Directives, the European institutions pointed out that the rules of the NIS Directives should also apply to public authorities. The public authorities also provide a number of services which are essential for the proper functioning of society. In this context, the CCB is currently examining the possibility of extending the scope of the Directive to public authorities. The issue is therefore being examined. We do not waste any time with that. Nevertheless, it is important that we proceed in the right order. First, we need to establish a methodology for private providers as provided for in the directive. That's a priority. Secondly, on the basis of the work done, we must look at how we can actually extend the scope to public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u63	Mr Prime Minister, the long transposition period is, of course, a fact, and it will be necessary, but you know that there is always a sense of urgency when it comes to cybersecurity, just because the evolution in cyber incidents is taking place at such a rapid pace that people always go after things. In the interests of the security of our country and the economy in general, securing our country against cyber incidents is an ungoing process. We need to start with something. That is always with the most essential activities, with the critical infrastructure. I am convinced that, over the years, there will be a growing understanding that there will be no alternative for the smaller players, who are also important, especially in an SME-driven economy such as ours, to take appropriate measures for smaller cyber incidents. Rome wasn't built in one day either, but it will certainly go in that direction. I myself intended to prepare some legislative work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u64	Mr Prime Minister, on 16 July 1973 the Act on the Protection of the Ideological and Philosophical Principles, the Culture Pact Act, was adopted. The law ensures that public cultural institutions are not allowed to discriminate against philosophical, ideological or user associations. This applies both to the management and use of cultural infrastructure and to the granting of grants. In this way, the Culture Pact Act guarantees the democratisation of the cultural sector. The law also provided for the establishment of a permanent National Culture Pact Committee. The Committee must ensure the proper implementation of the law of 16 July 1973. Any person or association who considers that the broad lines, the spirit or the content of the Culture Pact Act are being violated may lodge a complaint with the Culture Pact Committee. Since the 1980 state reform, cultural matters have been transferred to the Communities. On the one hand, there is a federal matter, the protection of ideological and philosophical minorities in cultural matters. On the other hand, cultural matters are regional matters. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media must therefore decide on regional cultural issues. I have had a number of personal discussions with members of the Culture Pact Committee over the last few months. This shows that the functioning of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media would be extremely difficult at the moment. Firstly, do you have any idea of the problems in the permanent National Culture Pact Committee? Second of all, when was the last time she got together? Thirdly, how many complaints has the Culture Pact Committee received over the last five years? Can you explain a possible trend? Fourthly, do you intend to take steps to optimise the functioning of the Culture Pact Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u65	The law of 16 July 1973, which guarantees the protection of ideological and philosophical values, indeed establishes in Article 21 the permanent National Cultural Pact Committee, which is responsible for verifying compliance with the provisions of the law. The committee operates in complete autonomy. It is joint: the thirteen French and thirteen Dutch-speaking Members are nominated by the political groups of the Community parliaments and elected by those parliamentary bodies on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups from which they are constituted. Article 22, last paragraph of the law, also states that the committee is assisted by government officials who are made available to it by the government. The posts shall be taken over from the staff envelope of the Prime Minister's Office of Chancery. At the Bureau meeting of the Permanent National Culture Pact Committee on 9 November 2015, members took note of the appointment of a new member to replace a outgoing vice-president. As part of that appointment, doubts have arisen as to any legal incompatibility between different mandates. Article 22 of the Culture Pact Act states that the duties of a member of the Committee are incompatible with any political mandate. During the meeting, the administration was asked to examine the situation and to clarify the matter in full so that the general meeting could give an informed opinion on the matter. The parliaments of the Communities have delivered opinions. However, it appears that the members of the committee have a different interpretation of the notion of "political mandate". Since no decision could yet be taken on this point, the discussion continues. I hope that a solution can be found quickly in the committee and among the participants in order to ensure that the work is done properly. The General Assembly of the Culture Pact Committee met for the last time on 9 May 2016. Since January 2011, the Committee has received 151 complaints. According to the information I have been informed, it seems that the number of complaints can be turned into a gauss curve. That is to say, the number is rising after each election and the trend is falling at the end of the legislature. The administration is getting more and more questions from different sectors of government and association. The answers to these questions allow a better understanding of the Culture Pact Act, thus avoiding the submission of a complaint to the Committee, thanks to the correct application of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u66	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. You confirm that the Flemish and French-speaking members of the Culture Pact Committee interpret this differently, with the result that the Flemish members dispute the composition of the Committee. As a result, the functioning of the Culture Pact Committee is currently largely non-existent. This, of course, has repercussions on the complaints handled by the administrative services of the Culture Pact Committee. The judges now have no guarantee that their complaints will be dealt with. I heard that no complaint filed this year would have been dealt with, to annoy most of the judges. Perhaps we should look for a solution and ensure that the Culture Pact Committee as a federal administrative body can work in a coherent and efficient way, possibly with language frameworks, such as those in other federal institutions and courts. We will certainly come back to that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u67	Prime Minister, politicians and senior officials have been obliged to draw up a list of assets and mandates since 2005. It is the task of the Court of Auditors to manage these asset and mandate lists as well as to monitor their submission or non-submission. The non-submission of asset lists or mandate lists shall contain a fine of EUR 600 to EUR 6 000 per negligence. Now we see in practice that there is little or no application of these fines. The Court of Auditors therefore referred in its annual report to the possibility of replacing criminal penalties with administrative fines. I understand that the think tank would also have asked the Friday Group for an adjustment to the asset and mandate list. In April 2015, you yourself supported the idea of subjecting cabinet employees to the obligation of asset and mandate lists who work in terms of content. This should increase democratic control. In newspaper interviews that followed, several party chairmen of the majority were questioned about this. They, too, have given a positive signal to this proposal. Hence my questions, Prime Minister. Has there been an evaluation for you or for your services of the law on the obligation to submit lists of mandates, posts and professions, as well as capital declarations? If so, can you show us the lines of action? Do you think it would make sense to make such an evaluation effective? Are you in favour of a legislative amendment which transforms the current criminal penalties into administrative sanctions? Are there any legal objections to this? Can you show the timing in case there's a change? Have you drawn up a concrete proposal for the submission of a list of assets and mandates by cabinet staff in terms of content? If so, when did that happen? Or is that still coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u68	As a central administrator, the Court of Auditors has carried out an evaluation of the past 10 years in its 2014 annual report. My services have not made such an assessment. The replacement of criminal fines with administrative fines is a slope on which the Court of Auditors itself says that it cannot make sense to say whether administrative fines would be more effective. Following the violations is part of the prosecution policy of the prosecutors. The workload will be similar in both cases. These are quite simple matters now that the list of of offenders is published in the Belgian Official Journal. The question of subjecting substantive policy-makers of the policy bodies to the law is something I have to nuance. The government parties are already open to a deontological code for these employees. In this connection, I refer to the work of the Federal Deontological Commission, whose results I would like to await before I take any steps for a deontological code. The heads of policy bodies are already subject to the declaration of assets and mandates. I now give you my personal opinion. In my view, any extension to substantive staff should be possible. I am certainly open to considering administrative sanctions in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u69	Prime Minister, my reply will be very brief. Thank you for your answer. I share your view that enlargement should be possible, but at the same time I know that not everyone is on the same page. Failure to submit a list of assets and mandates should currently be monitored by the public prosecutor. In the past, for this reason, a criminal sanction was converted into an administrative sanction, because the prosecutor did not prosecute. I am thinking only of municipal administrative sanctions, the example of which is excellent. As you can see, municipal administrative sanctions are increasingly being used in other areas. I refer to the football law, for the punishment of people who violate the law on football security. This will have to be handled in a very careful way. Such a measure has been quickly put into effect in ideas, but in practice it cannot be implemented so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic500x.u70	I have already indicated which questions have been translated into written questions. That concludes the agenda.
