ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u1	We do not have many questions and a very large part of these questions are converted into written questions or postponed. I'll tell them in order. Questions Nos 12099, 12104 and 12105 by Mr Nollet are converted into written questions. That's too bad, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u2	I really regret it. My best friend, let him put back the important questions he wanted to ask me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u3	No, the questions are not postponed, they are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u4	He'll still have the answers. He'll study them during the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 12391 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u6	Madam President, Mr Senesael is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u7	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u8	Madam Minister, in your reply of 21 June 2016, you said that the federal share of revenues from European emissions trading, the ETS, will flow to the Climate Response Fund. With these resources, the BONI will be paid to the region's debt and the balance will be passed on to Development Cooperation. At best, it will be used for additional contributions to international climate finance. You also indicated that the amount of 25 million in restrictive appropriations was entered on the Development Cooperation budget. This is confirmed in the bill on budgetary control of 27 May, which effectively states that EUR 25 million was entered in Development Cooperation for international financing of climate policy. However, it is not clear where this amount of EUR 25 million comes from as the ETS funds are still blocked due to the lack of a cooperation agreement between the Regions and the federal government on the allocation of climate targets for 2020. Previously, you indicated that the funds will be used first and foremost for the climate response mechanisms laid down in the 1989 Act. Madam Minister, how much should be paid to the Regions in 2016 according to the climate response mechanisms, i.e. on the basis of the difference between their climate targets and the effective emissions recorded in 2015? Secondly, what are the prospects for the amounts to be paid out on the basis of the same mechanism over the period from 2016 to 2020? Thirdly, what is the estimate of the amount that Belgium will earn annually from European emissions trading from 2016 to 2020? Fourthly, where does the EUR 25 million entered in the budget for development cooperation come from? Is this actually the part of the ETS revenue that is released anyway, or is this amount still fixed and is it then deducted from the federal ETS revenue? Fifthly, if the cooperation agreement is still out of date and you cannot guarantee that ETS revenues will be released before the end of 2016, how do you plan the promised additional contribution of 25 million to international climate finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Temmerman, the climate response mechanism is not yet operational. The legal opinions of the federal and regional administrations concerned, addressed to the National Climate Commission, revealed a series of questions concerning the definition of the multi-annual pathways, the definition of the scope of the buildings involved, certain inconsistencies in the legislative text on the calendar for determining the delta performance indicators and the payout of the Boni-mali, where the timing laid down in the law is not in line with the availability of the emission data. Finally, there are also opinions on the role and composition of the advisory committee provided for by the law. The synthesis of these legal opinions suggests a number of slopes, including, in particular, a revision of the routes. Final 2015 greenhouse gas emission data will not be available until 2017. At this stage, the amounts payable in 2015 therefore remain estimates in the same way as in subsequent years. These estimates are based on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and deviation from trajectories and an estimate of the price of CO2 allowances. According to these estimates, the annual bonuses to be paid to the Regions during the period 2017-2022 range from €9 million to €11 million. New projections of greenhouse gas emissions will be available after the first quarter of 2017. We will then be able to give more precise guidance. The estimated annual revenues of the auctioning of allowances for the period 2016 to 2020 for Belgium are between EUR 113 million and EUR 147 million. It should be borne in mind, however, that these incomes are influenced by very uncertain parameters such as industrial activity, average temperature and electricity demand, which influence supply and demand, emission rights and hence prices. As regards the origin and availability of the EUR 25 million that would be used by Belgian Development Cooperation for climate finance in 2016, I would refer you to my colleague, Minister for Development Cooperation. However, I would like to point out that the federal share of ETS revenues will go into the Climate Accountability Fund and that these resources will be used as a priority for the payment of regional bonuses. However, these means, made up of the federal share of the ETS revenue, can only be released once the Burden sharing cooperation agreement is adopted in the concertation committee and all the conditions are met from the point of view of the legal and budgetary provisions. We will therefore not go so far as to ask that the cooperation agreement go through the various regional and federal parliaments to be voted on before releasing the funds. We will now finalize this cooperation agreement, which is the legal text that reflects the political agreement of 4 December 2015. We need to get him to the concertation committee and release the funds at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although everything remains unclear. To be honest, I don't think that's a way of working. You yourself said that the amount of 25 million from the ETS is guaranteed, but now you say that I should address myself to the Minister for Development Cooperation. I will. You must understand that this is not the way to control it. At the moment there are no exact figures and I can accept all this, but the funds are already included in the budget. Those resources will not come from the ETS. I do not know where they will come from, but I will ask your colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u11	Mr Senesael is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u12	Madam President, Minister, it is difficult to say that the roll-out of the Belgian energy and climate package for the period 2013-2020 is going smoothly. It is already referred to by many as the BHV of the climate. Fortunately, a political agreement was finally reached on 5 December 2015, after six years. However, its implementation now seems to be waiting for it to be implemented. Madam Minister, you have been given a mandate by the Council of Ministers to negotiate a cooperation agreement between the federal state and the three regions on the distribution of the Belgian climate and energy objectives for this period. You are also responsible for releasing the auction proceeds from the CO2 emission allowances as soon as possible, also on the basis of that cooperation agreement. For the time being, this cooperation agreement is not yet in place. I have just been able to take note of the outcome of the consultation committee which took place this morning, which shows that no agreement has yet been reached. The relevance of this demand has thus only increased. When will you take the next step? Why is there still no cooperation agreement? When can the Chamber expect to discuss it? What amount is currently on the blocked CO2 emission allowance account? When do you intend to release these resources? What policies or projects will these funds be devoted to? What's the status? What went wrong this morning? Was the atmosphere not good or were there personal conflicts or substantive disagreements? I'm very curious. Finally, what is the state of play of the new national climate plan? When do you intend to propose this new climate plan? I am asking all these questions in the hope that it will be the last time we have to ask them, as I believe it is time that the climate and energy ministers of this country finally lay their hands on them. So you can feel free to consider this question as an encouragement to your regional colleagues. Mrs Dierick will undoubtedly deliver that to her dear colleague, Mrs Schauvliege.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u13	Thank you for your concern about the cooperation agreement on the sharing of the Belgian climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020. The Council of Ministers gave me a mandate to negotiate with the relevant regional ministers a draft cooperation agreement. As I have just said to Mrs Temmerman, this is the legal translation of the political agreement that was negotiated on 4 December. The text of this draft agreement is currently on the negotiating table and there is a broad consensus in a good atmosphere, with the exception of a number of articles that are already fewer than when the answer to your question was drafted. There are still two small problems for which a choice has to be made between different options. That is what happened because when, in January, we put on the table the drafting of this draft legal text, we first, as is done at the level of the national climate commission, delegated and mandated legal experts from the four levels of power concerned. They had a mandate to propose a text for two months later. They asked us for additional time because they felt they had not had enough time. We got their draft text that included options that needed to be worked on and decided, just before Easter. Then we tried to convene an inter-federal working group (IKW). You are right to point out that this exercise is new. It is probably not comparable to that of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde (BHV), but we must bring together people who know the subject matter and negotiate with all levels of power, i.e. the three Regions and the Federal Republic, on efforts to be made. We have a clear vision of these today, but they are to be achieved in 2020. The legal text must clearly reflect the broad lines of the political agreement that we have reached. We had to do it three or four times to have an IKW meeting. We began to work on the options that were presented to us. Then there was a request for a further legal study. We now have this study. The last meeting dates back to July 4 and we are 6, so it's very recent. At this meeting, the Walloon Region had a "small blow of heat"; it would like as everyone (the Flemish Region also reminded it this morning in the concertation committee) to receive the proceeds of auctioning the ETS allowances due to it as soon as possible, in accordance with the agreement of 4 December 2015. The percentages set out in this agreement for the coming years by 2020 are unchanged and we are obviously not negotiating on this matter. For the federal government, the mandate I received was to define its preferential options on proposals made by lawyers on rights and duties at the federal and regional levels, enabling them to fulfil their commitments, as provided for in the political agreement. For the federal level, this implies three points: the reduction of the "fuel surplus", the surplus of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport resulting from the comparison of figures from federal statistics and regional models; policies and measures to contribute to regional targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions for non-ETS sectors; sanctions for non-compliance. As regards your questions about the proceeds from auctioning of allowances, I can first and foremost inform you that just over EUR 411 million is currently blocked in an account. The Council of Ministers recently gave me the mandate to release these ETS revenues and, once a draft cooperation agreement has been approved by the Consultation Committee, to distribute them to the different entities on the basis of the agreed distribution key. With regard to the period 2021-2030, the European Commission has announced that it will publish its legislative proposals for the ETS building, transport, agriculture, small industry and waste sector and for the LULUCF sector in mid-July. The 2030 integrated energy climate plan will be developed on the basis of those 2030 objectives. Together with my administration, my cabinet is currently considering the methodology that will be used to develop the plan integrating climate and energy dimensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u14	Madam Minister, could you please specify which two problems are still there, in order to better assess whether they are problems or problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u15	This relates to the necessary solidarity between the different levels of power in case of failure to achieve the objectives by one or two of them – there are four – with the possibility for the latter to agree on a purchase of statistics at a preferential price.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u16	Madam Minister, I hope that these two problems will be resolved quickly, because it is certainly not a promotion for Belgian politics or a decisive example of climate action. It is now 2016 and it covers the period from 2013 to 2020. This file deserves an urgent landing. EUR 411 million is currently blocked. At present, this seems useful to me to be spending on climate and energy objectives. Finally, Minister, I would like to encourage you to be a climate minister, even during the forthcoming budgetary exercise. It's the last chance to ask you questions about the climate. This government is going into the summer with a difficult budget mandate. There is also the opportunity to change things, and I am thinking of regimes such as commercial cars. When I think about the need for investment on these issues, I hope that you will stand up at that table as someone who really takes this competence to heart. To give a concrete example... I will conclude, Madam President, because you are already looking at me angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u18	Ms. President, it is very important to be objective, which is why she wants me to finish my reply. I just want to say that today we are discussing the vehicle of the real estate funds in the Finance Committee. This vehicle of the real estate funds will be expanded and other infrastructure investments will also be eligible for the tax favor regime. Then I am surprised that investment in fossil infrastructure could also benefit from the tax favor regime. For me, this is yet another example of how the climate is not sufficiently present in the daily concerns of the government. That is an encouragement to look at it again as a cabinet, especially since this element will be dealt with later in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u19	Although you have exceeded your time, I can see the cabinet staff nodding anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u20	Questions Nos 12504 and 12505 by Mr Senesael are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u21	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago I asked a question about the new system for registering biocidal products. Since 20 May, every seller and user of biocidal products from the closed circuit has to register in Belgium. Any sale, purchase and use of biocidal products shall be recorded in accordance with time limits. As a result of this new arrangement, I've been contacted by a lot of people. The double registration creates a lot of difficulties on the ground. Everyone agrees that closed circuit biocidal products pose a high health risk and that appropriate precautions should be taken, but the double registration system creates a great deal of administrative nuisance for users. Several sectors call for a review of the system by switching to a single registration by the seller and a one-off registration by the user. The double registration has a major impact on the site, which is underestimated. Biocides are not only applicable in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. They also use boners and bakers daily to disinfect their counters. I also get the signal that there is very unclear communication. One publishes leaflets and a website has been launched, but many contradictions are communicated, for example about the periods of registration, about who has to enter what and about the deadlines. In a previous reply, you said that everything was very clearly communicated. You called it a success because there were already 600 reports. However, FPS figures show an annual consumption of as much as 37 000 tonnes in 2013. 75% of this was used by professional users. If they use 1 000 litres on average, 37 000 users would have to register. In that respect, we cannot immediately call 600 reports a success. Madam Secretary, you promised that a meeting would take place and I said that I would ask a follow-up question. I have been contacted by various sectors and have been informed that they would also contact you. What sectors have you contacted to express their displeasure? You also announced that you would consult very soon. That was a positive sign that you are prepared to listen to them. Has the meeting taken place yet? Who was there on that? What were the bottlenecks? What solutions are needed? Which sectors exactly have you been with? Will you also involve the sector in the design of the KB on further testing of the online registration system and in the further evaluation? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the description of the system, I refer you to my answer to your question 11293. However, I would like to clarify that the new registration system for biocidal products used by professionals replaces the so-called Class A system, the administrative burden of which was much greater. Many sectors, such as the agricultural sector, were not aware that they had to apply the Class A system and few inspections were carried out in that sector. This new system responds to a request from Regulation 528/2012 on biocides to separate products for professional use. On the other hand, the quantities sold used can be recorded once a year and not at each sale-use. My administration is in specific contact with the following federations: DETIC, FEVIA and for the agricultural sector, Boerenbond, ABS and the Walloon Federation of Agriculture. The meetings are under way for now. The conclusions that can be drawn provisionally are as follows: a deadline for the registration of products is granted to the sector until the end of 2016. Communication activities specific to the various sectors are under way: participation in fairs, leaflets, websites, communication via professional federations. Support exists via the help desk and 85% of questions get an answer within five business days. On the other hand, it is difficult to meet the specific demand to work by mail and telephone for an administration that wants to modernize. Finally, I asked my administration to prepare, in consultation with the sectors, an assessment of the registration of products and the reporting of the quantities used to which you refer. This assessment could lead to a revision of the Royal Biocidal Order of 8 September 2014 in 2017, in particular as regards reporting. The sectors were involved through the compulsory consultations provided for in the so-called "product standard" law of 21 December 1998. Specific consultations had also taken place. As for any problems encountered in the use of the computer interface, the administration strives to respond and adapt the system via the help desk.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u23	Madam Minister, several sectors have indeed called the bell. It's a good thing there's been a meeting. I did get the feedback that there are still a lot of questions. I hope you continue to take them to heart. After all, you are replying that communication is on the verge of being completed. However, if we put all the means of communication together, we will see a number of uncertainties and contradictions just there. So it is really worth taking the matter to heart again so that you can find out where the mistakes are. The user really doesn't know how to register. I tried it on the website myself. It is not obvious for an ordinary farmer to enter that data. There must be several clicks. The Q&A's also have incorrect information. In fact, it has to be very well communicated and the system is very low-threshold. There is still work to be done in this area. We must not sweep under the table the problems that still exist. You also answer that there will be an evaluation, and I am glad that it will come. However, I can only insist that it should be done as quickly as possible and that we should not wait too long. You have reported that we will have to wait until 2017. I would urge that, if necessary, it be speeded up and that, if necessary, an adjustment can be made more quickly. The problem affects thousands of users of the system. If they're all screwing around with the system every day, you can't ignore that signal. I hope you will take the matter to heart yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u24	Madam Minister, until tomorrow, Thursday 7 July, Belgium has the time to comment on the new criteria for hormone-distorting substances proposed by the European Commission in mid-June. Next week, on 11 and 12 July, the Pesticide Standing Committee meets to discuss the Commission's proposal and Member States' comments. There is a letter from the Danish, Swedish and French Governments to the European Commission expressing their concern that even bisphenol A, which is currently banned from us for food packaging for children under three years of age, is no longer a hormone disruptor. In other words, we're going backwards. It is clear that the proposed scientific criteria may pose major problems for public health. After all, a broad definition is applied so that all substances that disrupt our hormonal system can simply remain on the market. The Commission states that there must be a proven negative effect on humans before a substance can be classified as hormone disrupting. A proven negative effect on animals does not include scientific evidence in this for the Commission. That is, however, the current scientific practice. Madam Minister, will Belgium, like Europe, be somewhat wrapped up by the chemical lobby and follow that directive? Is Belgium critical of the new definition? If so, what position will Belgium take at that important meeting on 11 and 12 July? Do you share the concerns of my fellow Members from the Danish, Swedish and French Governments, because it is striking that they all express that opinion? Will Belgium ask the European Commission to revise its proposal to accept stricter standards and ensure protection of public health and the environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u25	The Belgian authorities have critically reviewed the proposed Commission texts relating to the criteria for the identification of hormone disruptors and have prepared a Belgian position, which will be submitted to the Commission. It is indeed necessary to amend the current proposal in order to ensure a higher level of protection for the environment and public health. We will also defend this position at the consultation meetings of the Competent Authority for Biocidal Products and the Pesticides Standing Committee. If you would like to know the full position of Belgium on pesticides, please contact Minister Borsus. It always is. The answer also applies to your third question. For your second question, the file of endocrine disruptors is very technical, but I have my full attention. We share the concerns of France, Denmark and Sweden that the level of proof required by the proposal is too high. The Belgian position therefore agrees, on some points, with the concerns expressed by my European counterparts in this letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u26	Madam Minister, I am very sorry that you always give me the answer that I have to turn to either Minister De Block or Minister Borsus. I do not seem to be able to ask you a question to which you can answer alone and autonomously. I understand from your reply that you share and are inclined to share the arguments of the Danish, Swedish and French Governments. I also understand that you are inspired by the arguments of those governments for the Belgian position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u27	You can say that, but we share their concerns. Since we are together, we are obviously stronger to weigh in the debate. We are with them because we defend the same arguments on certain points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u28	So I must address myself to the cabinet of Minister Borsus in order to fully know the position that Belgium will take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u30	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u31	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u32	This will allow us to close our committee meeting. It was my pleasure to chair them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u33	Was this the first time you were presiding over the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic467x.u34	Yes.
