ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u2	The Conference of Presidents of 23 November 2016 endorsed the principle of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the so-called "Kazakhgate'. The Conference of Presidents on 23 November 2016 endorsed the principle of setting up a parliamentary inquiry committee ‘Kazakhgate'. Mr Olivier Maingain's proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the initiation and the circumstances which led to the adoption of the Law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions, until the amicable settlement in criminal matters made on 17 June 2011 and its ratification by the Tribunal of Appeal in Brussels and until the adoption of the Law of Recovery of 11 July 2011 amending Articles 216a and 216b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as determining the political responsibilities, will be submitted to the Chamber for consideration tomorrow 24 November. Mr Olivier Maingain's proposal to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the incentives and circumstances leading to the adoption of the law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, to the criminal transaction on 17 June 2011 and its validation by the Brussels Court of Appeal, to the adoption of the restorative law of 11 July 2011 amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, and to determine political responsibilities will be submitted for consideration by the Chamber tomorrow Thursday, 24 November. It will be discussed in a working group of the Conference of Presidents, which will meet immediately after Question Time in plenary session on Thursday 24 November. It will then be submitted to the Justice Commission for approval. It will be discussed by a working group within the Conference of Presidents, which will meet immediately after Question Time at the plenary meeting on Thursday, 24 November. It will then be referred for approval to the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose that the agenda of this afternoon's plenary should begin with the draft law on various provisions relating to civil service, Nos 2064/1 to 4, and thereafter with the draft law introducing Article 106/1 into the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, Nos 2031/1 to 4. In accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that you begin the agenda of the plenary session with Bill Nos. 2064/1 to 4 on various public service provisions, and then with Bill No. 106/1 on electronic communications, Nos. 2031/1 to 4 on June 13, 2005. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u5	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law contains three major topics. It concerns an amendment to the Law of 3 July 1967 on the prevention or compensation of accidents at work, accidents at work and occupational diseases in the public sector. It is also about an amendment to Royal Decree No. 279 of 30 March 1984 on the payment after expiry of the period laid down for certain staff in the public sector. It also concerns an amendment to the Law of 14 December 2000 laying down certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the public sector. As chairman of the committee, I found that there was a fairly broad consensus on this during the discussion in the Committee on the Interior. The draft law was even adopted unanimously, although there were still two abstentions at the time of the article-by-article discussion. It is not about the most revolutionary measures in the field of civil service. Nor is that the Minister's way of working. In the meantime, it is clear that he does not always lead the band to implement his policy. He is moving forward step by step and wants to achieve small and achievable objectives. The draft law deals with a number of logical measures involving administrative simplifications. Moreover, the Government Declaration also provides for concrete measures in the areas of remuneration policy, flexible overtime arrangements and measures in the areas of accidents at work and absenteeism. Accidents at work, the first theme of the draft law, obviously cause a great deal of administrative inconvenience, both for employers and for employees, both in the government and in the civil servant. There is also very often a lack of clarity about the facts and the circumstances. In many cases, this results in inappropriate over-administration, which means that the procedures are dragging on for much longer than necessary and that many victims have to initiate procedures in order to obtain certainty in a file. That's not good. For example, the Council of State has indicated that the employer's mandatory notice of default is excessive formalism. The draft law will therefore ensure that this is deleted. It is logical that victims should also have access to their complete file. We can only make a positive assessment of this kind of transparency. This is also positive for strengthening the audit mission of the Fund for Accidents at Work. Finally, it is only logical that we should now remove as many doubts as possible in the recognition procedure. At the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Mr. Ben Hamou reported some uncertainty about the mention of the Flemish administrative courts. The draft law expressly states that the scope of the law of 3 July 1967 is extended to those Flemish administrative courts, which are listed in the Flemish Council Decree of 4 April 2014. The Minister did not, of course, include this in his draft law to favour the Flemish administrative courts. He also asked the other Länder whether they wanted a similar extension of the 1967 law for the authorities under their jurisdiction, but they did not appear to have responded to it and therefore they were not included. Now I come to the adjustment of the payout of the betting. The payout of the bet of December will now take place at the end of December. That seems technically logical and positive for the workers. A positive opinion was given on this subject. The adjustment is provided for by the Treasury Service and we can therefore agree with it. The technical reasons, e.g. the accounting programme, and coherence again contribute to simplification. Since the integrated police have a specific statute, this also means that an adjustment was needed for police personnel. There's a difference between federal and local police. In view of the number of staff already employed under the Staff Regulations before 1 March 2001, with the fixed-term staff being paid in advance, it is also necessary to provide for a transitional procedure. This transitional procedure will give the social secretariat of the integrated police and local police areas the opportunity to make the necessary adjustments. We are thinking here of the specific accounting programme debt securities, betting programme debt securities and others. An amendment was tabled in committee which takes account of the ministerial letter on training for the preparation of the police budget. It appeared that about 60% of police areas had not yet been regularized. The impact on the budget of the municipalities and police areas concerned is quite large and could amount to EUR 57 million. The amendment wants to maintain the transitional period in order to ensure that those police areas which would otherwise have to provide additional credits in the application of paragraph 1 within an extremely short period of time in order to ensure that the bets of December can be paid on the last working day of 2016. The last point concerns working time and the flexible arrangements for overtime. It is quite common for unforeseen circumstances, as well as long-term absences and the use of certain social benefits, to require staff to deal with the tasks of absent colleagues. A smooth handling of a file naturally ensures a well-functioning government. Here we are ensuring that staff are no longer obliged to take overtime at rest, because then we will always end up in the same vicious circle. That vicious circle causes too much work pressure and can lead to depression and burn-outs. By introducing the possibility of paying overtime, we will ensure that the pressure on the boiler is reduced and the files no longer accumulate. We believe that this is a very positive measure, and most of the committee felt that it was.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u7	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u8	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2064/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2064/4) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u9	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Lijnen, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u11	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2031/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2031/4) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u12	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u13	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u14	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to express my group's support for this bill in the committees during which this proposal was discussed. The Reform Movement has always considered integration issues a priority. Integration is an obligation. It's not a choice, it's not an option, it's an obligation. The federated entities carry out different policies with different results. Indeed, Flanders launched the Inburgering in 2004, while Wallonia started in 2016, while in the Brussels Region we are still waiting for the first texts, which are expected to be implemented in 2017. While there is a clear urgency, I myself had tabled texts calling for the establishment of reception routes, as was already the case in Flanders; it was more than ten years ago, a legislative initiative that had not been followed up. The integration project must be carried out by the federated entities. But the federal authority must set the tone and show the will that integration is ensured for all the first arrivals in our territory. I hope that this text will give a positive impetus in this direction. Our country is often pointed out, whether by international bodies such as the European Union, the OECD, Eurostat or Belgian bodies such as the National Bank or the King Baudouin Foundation, for its lack of integration policy. The employment rate of foreign nationals of third countries remains extremely low in our country, as almost one in two people has one job, far from European averages. In recent years, all indicators of the employment of foreign nationals have generally fallen into the red. Many debates, think tanks and working groups have been set up. But what is the finding? Do we observe a better one? Is integration harmonious? Is it easier for foreign people to find work? The answer is no, absolutely not. Proficiency in language and knowledge of norms and values are essential for emancipation and employment in the host country. All studies show the urgency of action. On 2 June, an OECD study once again found that Belgium did not sufficiently integrate its migrants into the labour market and that this began with education. According to the OECD, if Belgium does not improve this integration, it may not be able to sustain its growth. It is important to remember that our fundamental values, which are freedom to think, believe or not to believe, and equality between men and women, are not negotiable. Anyone who wishes to settle permanently in the country must accept them. The bill we are considering today is therefore a clear message to the first-time arrivals. Yes, Belgium is a host country, but the rules must be known and respected by all. I can only welcome the initiative that has been taken on this issue by the federal government to promote the integration and knowledge of the values that govern our society. The project we are looking at today has two axes. First, it introduces a declaration of the first arrivals. Secondly, it requires foreigners to provide proof that they are making efforts to integrate. Not all first-time arrivals are covered by this bill. A number of categories of foreigners are exempt from this obligation, since Belgium is bound by rules of international law, such as those of the European Court of Human Rights and the Geneva Convention. However, so that first-time arrivals can learn directly about the fundamental norms and values of our society, a copy of the declaration will be submitted to them. Those who are not affected by this project will also receive it for their information, against an acknowledgement of receipt. I would like to challenge what has been said by some colleagues during the discussions in committee. I am talking about the fact that the scope of the bill would be minimal. I would like to point out that it concerns foreigners who enter Belgian territory through family reunification, which accounts for almost 50% of the visas issued. It should be recalled that this draft law is in conformity with European law and takes into account the remarks made in the various opinions of the Council of State that it is not for the federal legislator to unilaterally define these fundamental norms and values. A cooperation agreement will therefore be established between the Federal State and the federated entities. This is not the first time that Parliament has so strongly associated the evidence of integration with the residence permit. Since 2012, conditions of integration have been at the heart of the discussion on the reform of the Nationality Code. They allow those who are fully integrated to obtain citizenship in just five years. The bill we are looking at today continues to work on the importance of integrating first-comers, which is why my group will support this bill. I would also like to draw your attention to the existence of such a declaration on values in other European Union countries such as France, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u16	Mrs Schepmans, you have developed a fairly clear statement on what integration policies are as you think they should be carried out at the level where integration competence is exercised, namely the Communities. You have talked about employment, which in your view is a sine qua non for integration, as well as about the language of the Region where the foreigner lives – which is also de facto a community competence. The only reason why, today, the federal government and, in particular, the Secretary of State for Migration, legislated on the declaration is that there is a federal jurisdiction which is that of the right of residence. Moreover, it is the means through which the Secretary of State presents his bill to us that you are going to vote for. There is a huge problem. As you acknowledge, the declaration can only be effective if the federal state and the federated entities – seven ministers, as the Secretary of State said in committee – agree on it. It is undeniable that it is not possible to legislate by removing the right of residence for persons who would not be integrated according to the criteria laid down by law, without at least having consulted previously the federated entities which are at first and mainly concerned by the competence of integration. A cooperation agreement may be negotiated, but the federated entities will have a knife under their throats, which is the law that you are going to vote for. This is unacceptable, because it is not a way of implementing a living and effective integration policy, since the main stakeholders, namely the federated entities, are still not around the table to carry out the policies and objectives that are, in your mouth, quite commendable. The method is ineffective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u17	Mrs. Schepmans, I listened to you very carefully. You're giving us an inventory of the reasons for the bill you're defending. However, I would like to know what you are going to do – you, your majority and the government – on the ground of discrimination in hiring. We need to be consistent. People can be asked a number of things: commitments, adherence to principles, values. Of course. But it must also be possible to guarantee to all these persons that they can be protected by the State against any form of discrimination. Today, what is actually on the table of the government and parliament, to combat discrimination in hiring, against discrimination in employment? That's what we'd like to hear from you, too. Thank you for any answers you may wish to give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u18	The Secretary of State expressed this in committee: he made it clear that, of course, this cooperation agreement between the federal state and the federated entities was important and that the federal state wants the federated entities to get around the table with the federal state to move forward on this agreement. It is in our interest to ensure that there is a will shared by both the federal and federated entities as well as by federated entities. As I have pointed out, it is regrettable that policies are different from one Region to another, although there is still a great deal of proximity. A first-comer can move from one Region to another, depending on the possibilities or requirements that would be required. For me, it is therefore essential that this cooperation agreement should find its place. I'm counting on the federal government. As such, the project that is being defended today is a strong and clear sign of the federal's willingness to move forward, to demand that everyone participate, that all people participate, but also that the federated entities take responsibility for this major issue of participation in our country, regardless of the region in which we live. With regard to discrimination, legislation had been adopted to combat discrimination, particularly in recruitment. I recognize that these proposals and those texts are not sufficient. We can, of course, legislate against discrimination, but this must also be done in general by training or raising awareness among all partners, be it entrepreneurs, trade union organisations, administrations. The fight against discrimination, particularly in hiring, really needs to be a daily concern of employers in order to be able to hire young people. But positive measures must also be taken, and both the Regions and the federal government can take these measures to combat discrimination. Finally, this bill establishes a link between, on the one hand, the desire to stay in Belgium and the need to participate in the host society. I therefore believe, as far as I am concerned, that immigration and integration must be linked even more, which has been forgotten for decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u19	Mr President, the present draft law introduces, firstly, the obligation for newcomers to sign a newcomer's declaration. There is still a cooperation agreement to be agreed with the regions. Secondly, an integration requirement is applied, which in some circumstances also affects the right of residence. We assume that everyone here in the hemisphere understands the importance of good integration. We can see that ourselves. In the past, we have called for this in Parliament, and we have written it down in certain laws. For example, the element of integration is contained in the law on nationality. Once again, as in committee, I would like to point out that, although everyone recognises the importance of integration and we should encourage newcomers to work on it once they have arrived, failure to achieve integration is only one element in a global dossier with a view to withdrawing the residence permit. The law and also the explanatory memorandum clearly state that failure to make efforts to integrate will be taken into account when assessing a possible withdrawal of residence. The word 'part' in that sense is really very important. It is also stated in the law: in Article 3, § 3, second paragraph, we have also inserted the word "too" in the word "too." In short, an overall assessment is needed. If a woman has entered the country through family reunification, but no longer appears to live with her partner or calls on the OCMW because of a lack of own income or own resources, these are reasons for the possible withdrawal of a residence permit. If, on top of that, the person concerned makes no or insufficient efforts to integrate, the latter may be an effective argument for withdrawing the residence permit. In itself, the fact that integration is not proceeding properly can never be sufficient to withdraw the residence permit. This would also be contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. For example, it has been agreed in the government and this has also been explicitly included in the explanatory memorandum. If I repeat that today, as in committee, it is because we all have to share the same interpretation, an interpretation which, once again, is explicitly laid down in the explanatory statement. In any case, our group is strongly in favour of helping newcomers on the road to integration. We must also ask the regions to do something about this. It is a shared responsibility of both the newcomer, who has to look for work, gets to work and learn the language, and of the government, who, among other things, has to ensure that there is a sufficient range of language lessons and that there is no waiting lists, as in some cities. It is therefore a good thing that the text contains a list of proofs of integration. These are just a few examples; it is not an exhaustive list, because it is also intended to effectively give the person concerned every possible means to prove that he or she has worked on integration. For us, integration is progressing gradually. One does start on the day one arrives here and it is a process of years. It is not from day one that one speaks the language, it is not from day one that one has immediate work. So that's also important. It is also important that the draft should take account of the fact that the conditions of integration allow for integration. If a newcomer argues that he could not start language lessons immediately, because there was no offer, then that must also be taken into account. In committee, I advocated proper monitoring and evaluation of the scheme. For example, after one year of application of the scheme, we can use the evaluation and, on the basis of figures, examine the cases in which, for example, a residence permit has not been renewed. Then we can also see if there should be an adjustment. Finally, the recognised refugees, among others, are exempt from this, because we are obliged to do so. That is also logical: a recognised refugee cannot be sent back to his country of origin, where he fears for his life, whether it is war, for the subsidiary protection, or for refugees; it does not matter. Our group will approve the present draft, but we will continue to ensure that it is correctly applied by the Department of Foreign Affairs, as explained in the explanatory statement. I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will take care of that as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u20	Mr President, a link is finally being established between immigration and integration. This is evident in many countries. Many citizens consider this to be self-evident. This is what we have to fight for for years. That is why we have been advocating it for years. It is extremely important to make the link between the right of residence and integration. It is the only right way to allow newcomers to take the step towards integration much faster. This rapid integration benefits everyone, not only from who is already here, but above all from the newcomers. That's obvious. The newcomer's declaration will apply to all members of the family and to persons who are here as part of labour migration. It is a very good initiative, in which foreigners will be able and need to familiarise themselves with our Western values and standards immediately upon their application. I cannot repeat enough that our party, the N-VA, has been in favour of it for years. Mr Secretary of State, at the time you and I wrote a book entitled Belgium, which was still applicable at the time, without borders. Now we might choose another title. In that book we also wrote about it in detail. I would also like to quote from another book, The Land of Arrival. In it, you read: "The migration we are experiencing today has not made our societies more open in many respects. Because of the traditional views many migrants bring with them, old questions about the position of women have suddenly resurfaced and freedom of expression has once again become controversial. All of a sudden we're talking blasphemy and garbage of faith. Even if it is sometimes about views that we know from our own history, it is still not progressing to repeat the emancipation that we had to endure fifty years ago." That is a quote from the standard work of the Dutch professor Paul Scheffer. It is a standard work on family reunification and the associated challenges of integration and integration. Even the Netherlands on the left has realised that the link is necessary and crucial. In the Netherlands, the newcomer declaration, known as the participation declaration, has recently been introduced. France introduced such a declaration years ago. In many countries, the newcomer declaration has already been introduced. It is evident in many countries. We are finally introducing them today. The newcomers' declaration is absolutely right to link federal migration policy and integration policy, which is the competence of the Länder. I can't stress that enough. The standards and values set out in the Newcomer Declaration are those laid down in, among other things, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Constitution and our anti-discrimination rules. These are very self-evident for those who regard Western standards and values as theirs and live according to them every day. We want newcomers to take these values into account. To do this, they will have to engage. It is clear that the newcomers support them. What is also to be welcomed about the draft law is the fact that it is not a one-off effort. It is not a piece of paper, under which a signature is signed once to obtain a permanent right of residence. No, we will ask the stranger for a continuous effort, not a one-off effort. During the temporary stay there will be a discretionary check of the efforts to integrate by the Secretary of State or by the Foreign Office. Mr Secretary of State, congratulations! You and I pulled the cart together. Together with the current majority parties, we were able to tighten up the law on family reunification in 2011. At that time, we were unable to subscribe to the newcomer declaration or the willingness to integrate. We were disappointed at the time, but we were already glad that we could take a step in the right direction. We were still in another political constellation back then. I am very proud of our party, I am very proud of our group, and I am especially proud of you, that we will be able to introduce that newcomer statement into our Belgian legislation from today on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u21	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to congratulate you, Mrs Smeyers. Please know from the outset that my group and I will abstain from this project. Let me make a preliminary comment on Mr Franken and his methods: "Wie niet integreert, moet terug"; everything is part of a tweet that later announces an amendment to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of you that Mr Franken undertook, at the beginning of his term of office, to present us with a code for foreigners and their right of residence. Instead, a law amendment is presented to us every week with, each time, a not very friendly comment on foreigners. They are presented as potential cheaters, as people who do not participate in our values. Mr Franken, today you continue to adopt the Francken method when you are not the only competent. Moreover, you have no competence in the field of integration, since it is the Communities which have competence in this field. We have voted for the reforms that have given these Communities more responsibility. Mrs Schepmans, you said that Mr Francken was giving a signal to the Regions and the Communities. It's a laugh to die! It has not yet held a meeting with the Communities and the Regions. Not a single meeting was held. He is not competent in the field of integration and he would signal that the Regions move a little. It's a laugh to die! In fact, we are faced with a text which proposes the obligation for foreigners to sign a declaration of integration. There is no question of Europeans or political refugees. Only those who come to us in the context of family reunification are concerned, namely those who fall within the scope of 9bis and 9ter. This is about 20 thousand people. However, this remains, despite everything, some 20 thousand situations. Moreover, this declaration, this proof of integration becomes a prerequisite for residence permit, for the renewal of the residence permit. It's beyond understanding. There is an obligation of result for the foreigner, but there is no obligation of means for the public authorities. You do not give the Regions and the Communities an extra euro. You do not check whether they will be able to provide the required services, but you are asking for the requirement of results for foreigners. It doesn't hold the road! You ask people to meet a number of conditions that you don't even control yourself. You do not have control over language courses, participation in citizenship courses, integration courses. I find this really quite surprising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u22	I find it paradoxical that you highlight the inadequacies of the regions, particularly the Walloon and Brussels regions, in relation to the integration policies of foreigners. What have we done for all these years? We sat together in the Brussels Regional Parliament, in the French Community. What did you do, you who were in power? This is a record of failure! Show this will to move forward, to commit the Regions to go further. This is done in other European countries. Why does Belgium have to stay behind because some Regions do not take their responsibilities? I say it's time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u23	Mrs. Schepmans, especially you, you're lucky. Your predecessor had set up a reception office for foreigners. Today, when you go to the neighborhoods...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u24	This is really an example of success! Take Molenbeek as an example of integration as does Mr Kir... that of time lost! It was not because we opened an office that we succeeded in integrating into Molenbeek! On the contrary, the entire population is asking for participation, but it must be given the means to do so. The responsibility lies not with the municipality but with the Region and the Communities!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u25	You mustn't be wrapped up like that. I heard you, you shouted, I heard invectives, but you can also listen. I know that being numerous in the majority, you can pass with laws, but you can also listen to the minority of this parliament and the opposition. I'd like to answer you, Mrs. Schepmans. Don't pout me now. If you consider that in Molenbeek it is a failure and you are on the side of MM. Franken and Jambon, thank you for the people of Brussels and Molenbeek. [[Brouhahaha]] I'm not done. Can we talk?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u26	First Mr. Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u27	I'll raise my voice too. Who set the example? It's Mr. Moureaux and you inherit it. You're going to the neighborhoods and you're proud of the service you're boasting. Come today to say that the Brussels Region has not taken any initiative and is in failure with integration! You should review your copy. Go back to your quarters and chat with people. I would have preferred to hear a mayor talk about discrimination, as Mr Laaouej did, also talk about the contribution of immigration to our country. All university reports indicate the added value of immigrants. I was with you on a commission. University reports on political refugees.... What would Flanders do without these political refugees to pick apples and pears? The Flemish no longer want to work in these areas. Good thing we have an immigration. Presenting this as a failure is something I cannot subscribe to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u28	Mr Kir, I propose that Mrs Schepmans speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u29	I am extremely shocked by the remarks made by Mr Kir who accuses me of considering integration to be necessarily a failure and particularly in my commune. I've never said anything like that before. You know that well! I really regret the amalgam that you are doing, like your predecessors, when we talk about difficulties, when we dare to say that there are problems and that we must develop policies to enable as many people as possible to be trained and to be able to participate. That is why I stressed, in my speech, the issue of employment which I believe is essential. These people, they want a job and they're motivated to have it. What I'm telling you is that we have to implement policies to allow them to have this job. This is done at the level of education. This is done at the level of training. These are powers which depend on the Regions and the Communities. We are very concerned. Then reduce everything to Molenbeek!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u30	You did it. It's still amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u31	I did not mention once the name Molenbeek in my speech! It is you, obsessively, who bring everything back to Molenbeek. On the contrary, I want to go beyond that aspect. I consider that I am speaking knowingly. I have been involved enough in communal life to be able to speak with knowledge of the cause. I don't make any amalgam, no ostracism. On the contrary, if I ask for support from the Regions and the Communities, it is for us to go further. You tell me that in its time, we created an office to allow people to learn French. Similarly, Bond has done so for many years for Dutch speakers, with great efficiency and with results that we would also have liked to have obtained from the Brussels Region as part of support. So it was not with all the millions that Molenbeek received for integration policies on the part of the Region, it was not because we created an office, that we managed to solve this problem in Molenbeek. I find that the shortcuts you are making here in this House are not correct. We've known each other long enough. We know too much about the Brussels Region's stakes to reduce this bill to a difficulty or to communes like mine or yours! You consider Saint-Josse to be the very example of success. I congratulate you, sir! I work every day to do better in Molenbeek and I'm proud of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u32	Mr President, I would like to say to my colleague that she is right: we must stop making shortcuts. Assimilating the failure of integration to the PS constantly means also making a shortcut. And you don't stop, in the majority, doing it. This is deeply unfair!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u33	Whether in Molenbeek or in the other municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region or in the other municipalities of Flanders and Wallonia, which are proud to welcome a large number of people of immigrant origin, the problem is the same. Before arriving in Brussels, I lived in Liège, where we met a large number of people of foreign origin from another immigration. The problem was already the same. Who does not agree that it is an absolute necessity to invest in the integration of populations of immigrant origin? Who does not see that in the Communities and the Regions we have done a great deal of work? And who opposed it? The MR! When we had to multiply affirmative action programmes for our schools, when we wanted to work against discrimination in the face, against discrimination in employment, we did not always have the support of the MR! When we wanted to combat the discrimination against people of immigrant origin in housing, even today, it was very often in your group that we found the biggest opponents. So when you make such statements, try to see the reality and try to support regional and community governments, which are a priority for the integration of populations of immigrant origin, which are a real wealth for our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u34	I always find the same technique: I am one of the bad guys because of my political group. It's a shortcut I've known for years. Yesterday, we celebrated the 170th anniversary of the Liberal Party at the Brussels City Hall. Liberals have always been at the forefront of accountability and emancipation. And I would like to recall that the Liberals have been in opposition in Wallonia and Brussels for many years. It was not they who prevented you from making emancipatory policies for people of foreign origin!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u35	I didn't quote you once! But if you want me to quote on the Brussels level personalities of your party who have set fire to the powders in our neighborhoods, I can do it! You want me to talk about someone like Mr. Destexhe? You want it? You want me to quote one by one those who set fire to our neighborhoods? The problem is not there! Stop believing it's all about you! I am simply saying that we must respect the integration programmes that have been nurtured, in particular by the Socialist Party, which was at the heart of the investments for the benefit of these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u36	The controversy is no longer very interesting. I would point out that it was absolutely not me who took part in the Socialist Party or Mr Kir or yourself. It was Mr. Kir who designated me in his speech...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u37	But at last! No, I answered you, ma'am, like you said...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u38	I didn't mention you...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u39	Half-words, you did it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u40	... I spoke only about the project and the need to make further efforts to ensure that foreigners have a job, as this seems to us to be the priority of integration. I have only highlighted this need in this bill. I didn't go any further. These frontal attacks on me, because I went up to the gallery, I don't understand them! We need to broaden the debate, it needs to rise!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u41	We're not victims, we're big enough. We had a debate of ideas and I put my finger on a reality. Through this law, Mr Franken gives himself the opportunity to add an additional condition for the stay. At this stage, he did not have any consultation with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels regions. This is unacceptable, since those responsible for integration are in other governments. Before linking language with them, coming with this bill means giving ourselves the opportunity to impose sanctions on foreigners without having the opportunity to verify their level of integration. Earlier, I put my finger on the question of means. Why? Because there's a question of means. Not all budgets are clear. In our country, there is a lack of budgets in many areas. It would therefore be interesting, in the context of this discussion, to respond to the request of the Council of State. The Council of State says: "The Federal State cannot determine the content of this declaration of integration on the ground or its assessment". You have the responsibility today, as soon as possible, to meet with the federated entities and to arrive at a work that is concerted. Get around the table as soon as possible to write this statement together! But without waiting to meet with the federated entities, you provided us with a draft declaration of integration. Like others, I was able to read in the press the reaction of ICRÉ, the Association for the Rights of Foreigners, the League for Human Rights. Everyone is worried; everyone asks questions. I will read a passage of what I was able to collate here and there on the contents of the arrival declaration. First-time arrivals are pointed at, especially on issues such as equality of men and women or even terrorism. It's kind of like, before we start, we're starting to assume that foreigners are likely to cheat. Recall that, in the preparatory work of the law, the declaration says: "...is above all a message of welcome to the attention of the foreigner". There's something to ask. So, at the outset, all this is done for the proper integration of foreigners and, finally, we come with elements that ask questions. There is a negative approach to foreigners. Mrs Smeyers, you have taken the floor. You and Mr. Franken moved the cases forward. You have extended the stay exam to five years at the level of family reunification. I question this very regularly. It is now not easy for many families to be able to cope with this constraint. But, as if that were not enough, you think that this measure will help resolve the issue. And, like Mr. Franken, you often quote Holland. Holland did so in the framework of the European directive, but Holland remained within the framework of the European directive! This European Directive lays down, in a limited way, the conditions which may be required by the Member States in the context of family reunification. These criteria must be precise, limited and marked. They must be aimed at facilitating the integration of the family members of the third-country national and not at sanctioning them, according to the simple formula you have used, Mr Franken. A comparison is made with the Netherlands, but this country is pursuing an approach which is concerned with the proper integration of foreigners arriving in their territory. Of course, my group cannot follow this proposal. Can you already give me an answer on the meetings planned with the Communities to draft together this declaration of integration and to ensure that there can be a reference to how the level of integration of foreigners can be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us concerns the introduction of a general residence requirement. There is, on the one hand, the signing of a declaration in which the foreigner must express the will not only to understand our rights, duties and values, but also to act accordingly. On the other hand, he notes that he will make efforts to integrate. This must demonstrate the willingness to integrate. We cannot oppose this in itself, because we want newcomers to be able to function in our country and to incorporate their rights and duties into our society. I just don't know what that's gonna look like in practice. Let me give you an example. A fugitive comes from Syria. He speaks a certain language, but no Dutch. He gets to sign a newcomer's statement about the values in our country. This will have to be made very explicit if newcomers do not want to sign something. It's also a signature with the knife on the throat. One flees from a particular country. They are coming here and they want you to sign an integration obligation. I know you'll shake no now, but you haven't heard my next sentence. The message that is sent out to the outside world is that everyone who arrives here will have to sign it. What is the reality now? The obligation does not apply to asylum seekers. It doesn't apply to foreigners with refugee status. It does not apply to foreigners enjoying subsidiary protection status. She doesn't apply to stateless persons. She doesn't apply to minors. She doesn't apply to students. It does not apply to EU citizens and family members. Now, of course, you are wondering who remains. Well, these are family men and migrant workers. But migrant workers fall within the competence of the Regions. They can only obtain a residence permit if they also have a contract of employment here. In my view, that means that, even for security reasons, they understand a thing or two about our country. So who's left? Up to 20,000 people per year will have to sign the newcomer's declaration. I have spoken a number of times about integration policy. Mrs Smeyers, you just said in passing that the newcomer declaration already exists in so many countries, but that is where the declaration of participation is mentioned. We can always discuss semantics, but I think that is an essential difference. There is a difference between a newcomer's declaration, with a very one-sided focus, and a participation declaration, a term that includes reciprocity. For the record, I also want newcomers to be integrated here. However, this is not a one-way street, in different areas, as is the case here and which bothers me very much. The newcomer must make an effort here. I hope the newcomers will take that responsibility. Because of my experience in this field, that is the benefit of my old age.................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, you pretend that this is only the responsibility of the newcomers. It is also the responsibility of our society and our institutions to help newcomers achieve integration. Integration is also the responsibility of the Länder. However, I do not hear anything about this. I almost fall off my chair because a Flemish-oriented party, who thinks Flanders is always doing better, completely ignores Flanders here at federal level. I have not checked it myself, but someone has just said that no meeting has yet taken place. I believe that the Länder should be brought together much more, also under the impetus of Mr Francken, so that there is no longer any need for discussion like that. It must be clear that the Länder, following the influx of many refugees who want to build a new life in our country, are developing a well-thought-out policy, involving a large number of partners, including employers, who must make efforts to integrate refugees, institutes such as VDAB and Actiris, which must actively cooperate, and those involved in education and housing. But what will we get now? I may be a little ahead of another discussion, but the new approach of Secretary of State Francken's policy paper, which we have yet to discuss, is that the burden of proof of integration should be placed entirely with the foreigner. The stranger must prove that he is integrated here or that he has made the necessary efforts to integrate here. That is a certain vision, Mr Secretary of State, and you will of course point out again that we are not here in the Antwerp City Council; I would also like to concentrate on Brussels, if that will lead to a better discussion. But if you demand that from the newcomers, where will they go? They will move to the places where instruments are offered to integrate. They will have to prove that they have made efforts. If one lives in a village where there are no language lessons, one cannot go into that. What are you organizing? You make sure that newcomers go to the big cities. That may be your choice and you may have good reasons for doing so. I am simply saying to you that your N-VA colleagues, the chairman of your party and the OCMW chairman in Antwerp in the lead, do not want these foreigners to come to Antwerp, where there are the tools to integrate. Nothing is being done, nothing, about the cottage mafia that is currently busy and making a lot of money. Why? Because your colleague, your N-VA colleague at Flemish level, closes bags and ears around housing. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u43	Mrs De Coninck, I will give a general answer after all the speeches. If you see me so personally, with the same discussion over and over again, it is indeed the Antwerp City Council. That's your right, you say what you want. I can only say that what you are saying has been pretty well taken care of. You say I organize the trip to the cities. I don't see why I'd organize it. Language lessons are organized in many cities and many municipalities. In my municipality language lessons are also organised by the OCMW, now that we have an asylum centre there. That's not a big city. With 14 000 inhabitants, I know it's not a big city. That is a first point. I don't think what you're saying is right at all. The Flemish integration policy is organised in such a way that there must be enough people in the classroom for language lessons so that they are profitable. It is obvious that this happens in a larger structure than a city, a city centre or a city centre. The fact that there are language lessons in Antwerp is a good thing, I believe. I don't think you'd mind. I also remember that there are no waiting lists for language lessons. I think that's very important too. When you talk about Flemish policy, we can talk about it for hours, because you know that I know it pretty well too, then I also think it is important to tell the whole story, including with the asylum crisis. Mrs Demir is here and she is chairman of the Agency for Integration and Integration in Flanders. Also during the asylum crisis, due to the good cooperation there were no waiting lists on integration and on language lessons in Dutch. There was no waiting list, even though we welcomed 45 000 people here last year. Secondly, if you say that I, as Flemish national secretary of state, completely ignore Flanders, that is obviously not correct. I don't see why we should ignore Flanders. A cooperation agreement will be concluded. I await the adoption of the texts here in Parliament. Bilateral contacts have already been established with Mr Vervoort's cabinet. On 8 December there will be a bilateral meeting with the German-speaking Community and in mid-December there will be a meeting with all the partners at the table to discuss the text for the first time. That is, of course, after it has been approved in Parliament. I'm sure you don't blame me for that. What you're saying is far from the truth. Let me make one comparison. If I am not mistaken, you have abstained from the committee. I do not know what your vote will be in plenary. We'll see about that tomorrow. However, what is now being introduced here is something that has been applied for years, even when the sp.a was in the government, in the framework of the regularisation articles. A person who submits a regularisation application 9a on the basis of a long stay shall be granted a temporary status of one year. He will also have to prove that he has been doing integration efforts in the time of the PS for years. He will have to demonstrate this entirely himself by presenting language attestations, an NT2 certificate, a certificate of integration course, a certificate of participation in certain social activities, a certificate of training, as laid down in the present draft law. It's been around for years. This has been applied for thousands and thousands of people who are regularized annually in our country, by your governments as well. What we are doing now is extending that system to family men. We explicitly put it in the law and we make it maximum possible. To be honest, I don't see the problem. With the sp.a in the time we were in the Flemish government together, I was then Deputy Head of the Cabinet of Integration always working on that emancipatory project. We have always worked on a story where integration is a story of rights and duties, where the citizen, the newcomer, has to engage to join the club and have to take language lessons to fit in. Was that in the big city that he had to take language lessons? This is not the case in Flemish Brabant. The vast majority of language lessons in Flemish Brabant are not organized in a major city. Not everything is Antwerp, of course. So I do not agree with you at all. I don't really see the problem. You abstained, probably because you're in opposition. What we are proposing is an extension of something that has been applied for years, at federal level with the regularizations and the conditions attached to them, and at Flemish level, carried out jointly by the N-VA, Open Vld, CD&V and sp.a under Patrick Dewael as Prime Minister. Now it is put into practice by a link with federal residence legislation, which has been a question for many years from the vast majority of Flemish public opinion, from many people in our country on both sides of the language border. So I don't see the problem. If you keep talking about Antwerp, do so. You know that a great deal of effort has been made there. I can only repeat that there are no waiting lists for language lessons or integration courses in Antwerp, where the influx is very high, as in Ghent. I think you should look at the whole picture instead of just emphasising the bad over and over again. In my view, what is going on here has been asked for years in the Flemish Parliament by a lot of parties. Personally, therefore, I do not see what the problem could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u44	Excuse me, Mrs De Coninck, but when I hear the name Antwerp, I have no other choice but to let you hear my opinion and adjust it. I heard this explanation yesterday, especially the part about the house mafia. We have a paradox here. By pursuing a policy in the past that continuously creates disadvantaged ghetto trunks, there is a problem in the housing market at some point. Today we are clearly taking a stand. One must ensure that solutions are provided so that opportunities are created for these people. The concentration must not be permanently fed. All specialists agree that our cities are currently doing more than they can actually do. We'd be happy to do that. There is a historical group that we already serve today and for which we try to take care of as best we can. But today, you're confusing two things. In relation to Ghent, Antwerp is doing its best, with pleasure by the way. As far as the housing market is concerned, solutions must be found. One can act incredibly hard and harsh, and make sure that the houses are released by throwing out the residents, but then one also knows that the inhabitants who are with them are punished. That is why solutions must be found. This means that we must strive for affordable living. These are initiatives that we are currently taking in the city to ensure that opportunities are actually created and that people are not stuck in an environment where they can't get out. They always fall back into a kind of heimated situation where they do not speak Dutch or come into contact with others, even though their children have been in school and have learned Dutch themselves. That is precisely the problem of concentration in the cities, which we are gradually helping, step by step, to combat. That is the policy we are pursuing. If we do this in a good way with different cities, we can get out and give a clear chance in an effective way. That is not an opportunity by choice of words or by saying that we are going to give opportunities; no, we are simply doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u45	Mr President, when you mention Ghent after Antwerp, I also feel called to intervene, and certainly, Mr Van de Velde, if you claim that Ghent would do less than Antwerp. We never said in Ghent that we would not provide housing for the recognised refugees. Yes, you did in Antwerp. We have never said that it is enough and that we will not continue to work on integration. We never said that in Ghent. You say that in Antwerp. I wonder where you'll get it if you say you're doing a lot more in Antwerp. Relatively, I am sure that there is much more happening in Ghent than in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I will address you first and then Mr Van de Velde. You always tend to be extreme in discussions. I have never said that you can see in my personal history that there should be no integration, that there should be no paths, that there should be no reciprocity. On the contrary, as one of the first politicians in Flanders, I have advocated reciprocity, rights and obligations, for activation. As far as the newcomers' declaration is concerned, I am not against it, but I think that a "participants' declaration" might have been a much better word, as Mrs Smeyers said, but that is a separate discussion. I believe that you are now doing far too little positive, especially at federal level and especially with recent developments on migration. Most of all, you're sending out negative signals. There are no waiting lists in Antwerp, which is good. This proves that many people will come to Antwerp, because there are no waiting lists for integration courses and language lessons. In many other municipalities there is no offer. Moreover, integration is not just language and integration. First of all, it is also about housing. A roof over the head is very important. Second place comes food and third place work. Then there's the school and the health care. So that is a combination of these conditions. I say that your policy will ensure that the big cities will be taxed more heavily than the small and medium-sized municipalities. Mr Van de Velde, I am very pleased with the good news that people in Antwerp say that they will be happy to receive, receive and host migrants in an ideal environment. That's incredibly good news. I suppose you'll be on the same page to realize that. My third point, DVZ will be both judge and party. Who's gonna check that people are well integrated? Who's going to control integration efforts? I hear the previous Secretary of State say in a broadcast of the Seventh Day: "I will not behave like a Roman emperor." And she stuck her thumb up and then down. When I hear this story now, the bottom line is that you, Mr Secretary of State, will indeed become a Roman emperor who will decide on the future of people. Last week, moreover, we saw this very clearly in other dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u47	Mrs. De Coninck, with all due respect, what you're saying now goes a long way. You say that by adopting this bill, I will be a judge and a party, at least my administration, because those files will not be on my desk.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u48	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u49	Very exceptional, 99.9 % of the files do not end up on my desk. It's my administration she handles. You say "jurisdiction" and "party" but why have I never heard you in the past, during the previous legislature, when you were Minister, about the same system that has been applied for years for the 9bis procedure, in proving the obligation to integrate on the basis of a number of criteria that are tested by DVZ, which is judge and party? After all, on the one hand, the DVZ requires the illegal persons who are regularised to demonstrate the conditions of integration, on the other hand, it assesses and decides whether or not to extend the stay. Why haven't I ever heard of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u50	We did say something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u51	No, you don't. You're suing that what's being introduced will make us judge and party. You don't think that's possible. But it's been for years. I have never heard the sp.a group and its spokesmen in the past in the committee, where I was often present when I was in the opposition, complain about this and now you come here and tell me that it is a disgrace that DVZ is a judge and a party. I don't understand anymore. You're talking about discretion. Well, the discretionary power has been incorporated into our foreign law since 1980. If I am not mistaken, one of the authors was Mr Louis Tobback. You'd better ask him why he put that in the law. You should ask all the predecessors, including Mr Dewael, why the discretionary power has been registered and incorporated into the foreign law. In Belgium, but also in all European countries, there is always a discretionary power for some dossiers, which belongs to the administration and the relevant Secretary of State or Minister. That is precisely because certain conditions are better not fully defined in the foreign law. That is precisely because it is better not to include certain conditions in the Aliens Act, because they work migratoryly and cause abuse and fraud. That is why there has always been discretion in the past. It is always exercised in a very conscientious manner by my administration. For that, I put my hand in the fire, Mrs. De Coninck. If you have evidence to the contrary, put them on the table. You're always welcome in my office. Tell me if it was wrongly judged. You'll have to prove it. However, as long as I have not seen that and you are talking here about judge and party, I think you are going through a very short process. It's always been that way. I also believe that it is necessary to maintain a certain margin of discretion in the foreign law and our foreign policy. If I don't, I'm gonna see it go very wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to tell you that there is nothing about this in this draft law. When you say that we Socialists have not said anything about regularisation in the past, I remember very well the discussion of ex-Mayor Janssens on the mayor's opinion on the dossiers. I am very sure that Mayor Janssens has gone through all those files and there were 9 000 for Antwerp to come up with his advice. In the end, this has led to the necessary discussions. So we have said some things about this in the past. The discourse is quite often that the Socialists have done nothing right. But if it is convenient, you always come up with the argument that the Socialists have done so before. Maybe next time you can tell me that we didn't do so badly after all? I shall then come to the declaration of integration and the newcomers. Integration is a competence of the Länder. I have already said that you have not made any agreements on this matter. When I hear the discourse, the values used are mainly based on the lighting. The lighting is now suddenly very important. Everyone knows that the three values of freedom, equality and fraternity are a balance and that precisely the search for a balance between these three values in the West is pursued. However, I have the impression that there has been no discussion of this with the Länder, that there is no knowledge of how it will be tested, and that the emphasis is mainly on freedom and possibly equality, while there is no reciprocal fraternity. In this context, I do not know under what authority the federal level will take initiatives. If the N-VA wants to take the initiative at federal level, it has that right as a majority member, but you will understand that I find that very surprising. Finally, we shall abstain again in the vote. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to integration and do not want to give the signal that integration would not be important. We just want to stress that integration is a reciprocal relationship: we ask for efforts from those who want to integrate here, but we must also commit ourselves, as a society, to creating the instruments, the levers, so that newcomers can integrate properly. We must not confine ourselves to giving the people concerned a paper for signature with the message that they must draw their plan somewhere on the land.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u53	Mrs De Coninck, I have listened to your speech. State Secretary Theo Francken has already referred to the Agency for Integration and Integration. I want to make a few things clear. You have just listed a number of important lighting values, including equality. That is our job, the task of policy makers. At Flemish level, we do this every day. We have experienced a huge refugee crisis. Theo Francken managed it as the best. In Flanders integration and integration is mandatory and that is a good thing. I see that as a form of emancipation. I believe that you and your party also consider emancipation important. I would suggest to all my fellow Members here that they also take part in the courses given in integration lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u54	I've done that a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u55	You may have already done so, but we are now dealing with a new kind of newcomers arriving here. I speak now from experience. These are newcomers who do not always understand certain principles, such as equality between men and women. This is undoubtedly a very important principle for all of us. MO teachers do their best to explain everything to the refugees who have arrived since August last year. That principle is not always clear to the newcomers. I therefore find it only natural that the Federal Secretary of State should ask for such a statement to be signed upon arrival. It's no shame, Mrs. De Coninck. It is normal and it will facilitate the work of the MO teachers at Flemish level, because at the moment newcomers are confronted with that principle for the first time, when they sign up for the integration classes, where they get to see the documentary "Femme de la rue," which is not evident to the newcomers. It is therefore not a disgrace, but it is quite normal for newcomers to be asked to sign a newcomer's declaration. We should have done that a long time ago, and I am grateful for that, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u56	Mrs De Coninck, we had a good discussion in committee. You asked for a second opinion from the Council of State because you considered the adjustments to be insufficient. That advice has come to pass. We have travelled a long way to get where we are now. However, I did not think your speech was very intellectually fair. I would have said that it is always the fault of the Socialists. I did not say that in committee either. I often refer to Flemish policy, when the socialists and the N-VA were together in the government. I often refer to that, because I have never hesitated to acknowledge it. Your chairman knows this very well, by the way. You want to abstain in the vote because you think that this is a two-way street. Not only can we impose obligations on newcomers, such as asking them to sign the declaration and the obligation to integrate, with even the possible threat of withdrawal of the right of residence. That's not just anything. The penalty for non-respecting the integration course is from 50 to 5 000 euros. One has to pay that fine. If you don't go to class, you get a fine of 150 euros, then 300 euros. However, it is even more motivating to know that the right of residence can be withdrawn. That's a much heavier sanction. You are saying that this is not really fair, because I am asking far too much from those newcomers and far too little from them. There must be a balance between, on the one hand, asking and forcing things and, on the other hand, giving rights and helping people to emancipate. I can't follow anymore, Mrs. De Coninck. The budget for 2016 of the Flemish government on integration and integration has never been so high. Never before has the Flemish taxpayer paid more for integration and integration courses, for language lessons Dutch as a second language, for housing investments to address the asylum crisis in an optimal way. You say that you will abstain because the efforts requested are there, but we give far too little. That's just not true. There was an additional EUR 40 million for integration and integration. Check it out. Major efforts have been made, both by the Flemish Government and by the Flemish municipal and city authorities, to manage integration and to deal with the asylum crisis properly. So what you're giving up as a motivation for your abstention is obviously wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u57	You can be rather dramatic. I am pleased with what Mrs Demir has discovered. I'd found that out a long time ago. As OCMW chairman, we had customers with whom we concluded integration contracts: we would integrate them into the labour market. So you don't have to explain that to me anymore. Your explanation proves that many people don't know many things because they didn't grow up in our society and they don't understand what they're signing if they have to sign something. You can send them anything for signature. If that means they can stay here, they'll sign. That's what I'm trying to explain. Yes, Mr Secretary of State, that is a very important paper under which they must sign. If they don't, they can't stay here. Are you happy now? You invented something big here again. There is another difference, Mrs Demir, between explaining something that can be done with words or with a drawing, and understanding what that explanation means about equality between men and women, the recognition of homosexuality, but also about discrimination. We must also ensure that we tell those people that there must be no discrimination. I think we will also have to make it clear to many people in Belgium that there should be no discrimination, not even in terms of jobs. I know some people think this is all relative, but there are many things that are relative. So, wider. Around the budget. One cannot suspect the study circle Itinera to be a super-left organization, or they should have changed direction. I have heard them explain that, with what we are going through, we will not have one, but at least two teeth to integrate the group of people who come from abroad here. For the sake of clarity, Mr Secretary of State, your very important document, certainly not a piece of paper, should only be signed by the family men and not by the other large group, for which it should actually be even more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, I have already heard congratulations from Mrs Smeyers to you this afternoon, I have heard statements from Mrs Demir, full of praise, and from the MR, also full of praise. You have come to the press with your newcomer statement which would be a milestone in our policy. Can I ask you what we are going to approve here tomorrow? What will happen after the vote tomorrow afternoon? Will we then have the newcomer statement, which will require all newcomers to sign a commitment to integration? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to that question is no. Mrs Smeyers, Mrs Demir and those who are interested, the newcomer statement does not exist and will not exist after tomorrow's vote, for the simple reason that it has been undermined by the absence of any consultation with the Communities and the Regions on which values and standards newcomers should actually respect. Should all newcomers sign such a declaration? Of course not. It's a fraction. Asylum seekers should not sign the newcomer's declaration or two thirds of the family heirs. The latter is in the report of your own words, Mr Secretary of State; I have that report with me. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an empty box. Actually, I'm sorry about that. I find it interesting to convey our values to the people who live, work and live in our country. Work is under way in the Chamber to amend the preamble to the Constitution. I believe that this is a useful initiative. Our group leader, Kristof Calvo, has launched the idea of a declaration of citizenship, and I think that is also useful. Not everything is in the law, so it is useful to do a piece of education on the norms and values that bind our society. This should apply to all residents, not only to newcomers, but also to a fraction of newcomers, which is actually the subject of the draft law. Mr Secretary of State, in summary, first of all, your newcomer statement does not exist. Secondly, if they already exist, it is only 25 000 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u59	Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u60	Mr De Vriendt, I do not know whether you listened carefully at the committee meeting. You say that the newcomer statement does not yet exist, and that is correct. A legal framework is now being created. Then there is a need for a cooperation agreement on the text. Consultations on this cooperation agreement are planned in mid-December and we will do everything we can to reach a cooperation agreement. To this end, I count on the goodwill of all parties around the table. It is also about parties who are in the opposition here, but at other levels of government in the majority. We will come to a text and the newcomer declaration will come into force as soon as the text is incorporated into a cooperation agreement. That will take some time, but I am sure that we will get out and be able to submit a text. At the committee meeting, the members of the PS abstained from voting. The biggest criticism or the biggest question was to consult, to come together. Well, that consultation is planned. There are still a number of legal questions there, but that consultation will take place and we will also draw up that text. You say it's an empty box. That's not right. The text will be there and you can certainly pay me for it within a year. Secondly, if you say it's an empty box because it's about nobody, then that's not right either. It's about family lords and anyone applying for regularization. Family reunification is the biggest gateway to Belgium. Still do. The vast majority of the people who come to Belgium still come through family reunification. You say it's only about 20,000 people. About half of them will have to sign. If you say there should have been more, everyone should have signed it for me. If you really think I'd be happy to exempt people from that signature, then you don't know me very well. I would have forced everyone to sign. Only there are international rules of law, which means that the Council of State says that this cannot be imposed on asylum seekers. Mr de Vriendt, if you would like to teach me a lesson here by saying that Mr Calvo has launched a proposal which imposes it on everyone, then I tell you: if I cannot impose it on asylum seekers, then Mr Calvo and Mr De Vriendt and the Greens cannot impose it on asylum seekers. Then you will not be able to, because the Council of State will give the same advice, that it cannot be imposed on Europeans, asylum seekers and recognised refugees. It's gonna be the same thing. It will not be possible to impose it on people from Turkey under the Association Agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Of course, I would have preferred not to exempt them, I would have preferred to include everyone, but all those legal arguments for exempting them apply equally to your proposal and to all the other proposals that have been made here. One cannot impose that. It is not possible in international law. So if you make a proposal, you shouldn't come here and tell me it's an empty box. It's not an empty box at all. The majority of the people arriving in Belgium will still have to sign it and the others will certainly get it by registered mail. If you say it's everyone in your proposal, that's not true. You're telling people vesicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u61	The first point I wanted to make, Mr Secretary of State, is a basic endorsement of the need for a pedagogy of our values and values. What I'm suing is that you made your newcomer statement into the media a big show when it's an empty box, because you have nothing in your hands today. You depend on the regions to determine what those values are. It's an empty box. You didn't want to turn it into an empty box, that's true. When we look at the preliminary draft law, you wanted to decide with your own hands with the federal government what standards and values it should be about. You asked Parliament to give you a mandate, and then to make it a federal decision by royal decree. The Council of State has flagged you back and has given an opinion on pages long, which has been devastating for this bill. You had no choice but to back down, which means that you said in committee that you actually confirm that it is an empty box and that you have nothing in your hands that we do indeed have to consult with the regions in order to reach the set of standards and values. Your bill, Mr Francken, was submitted on 16 June 2016. In committee, you said: 'We are going to set it up at the Consultative Committee on 6 July.' That didn't happen. We're five months away, and you still have nothing, nothing, in your hands. I am just saying this to you, Mr Francken, because you have messed up your desire to talk about our standards and values in consultation with newcomers as far as we are concerned in consultation with everyone. You've made a mess of it. This draft law is an empty box, and I seriously wonder how it is possible for the other majority parties to join in such a show policy. I'll move on, because there's a second hatch. If you wish to intervene, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u62	Mr De Vriendt, you can say ten times that it is an empty box, which appears to be well circled in your speech, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u63	Then argue with it. Speak against it. Give arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u64	I just said it's not an empty box. You mustn't say that I realize it's an empty box...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u65	No, you just said that you are still dependent on the implementation by the regions. So you still do not have the approval of the regions, so it is an empty box.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u66	If I may, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u67	Mr Francken has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u68	I agree with you when you say that the Council of State had comments on the newcomer statement. The Council of State has indeed said that it is not up to the federal government, or rather to the federal legislator, to define the framework for the text to be signed. I agree with that. I expected that. So I wasn't surprised when the Council of State's opinion came in. We expected it, but we tried anyway. The Council of State made it clear that this was not possible, because it was a matter of competence to be governed by a cooperation agreement with the Länder. What did we do next? We have kept this separate and we have divided the draft law into two parts. On the one hand, there is the story of the newcomer declaration, for which a cooperation agreement should be drawn up in the coming months. We're working on that. I admit this didn't happen in July. There are a number of practical but also political reasons for this. I will do everything in my power to reach this agreement in the coming months. There have already been a number of bilateral contacts. I can repeat this ten more times. We are going to ensure that an agreement is reached with the German-speaking Community and with Mr Vervoort and Mr Magnette. You can ask me a question about this in a year's time, then we will make an evaluation and you will see that this is not an empty box at all. Secondly, and more importantly, the second section contains the link between the right of residence and the obligation to integrate. That second hatch isn't an empty box at all. It's about a lot of people. It is also a huge step forward. The law states that this will apply on the day of publication in the Belgian Official Journal. So this is something for the next few weeks or months. From then on, that article will also be applied to evaluate residence on the basis of the obligation to integrate. If you make an evaluation of this in a year's time, I will be happy to come to the Chamber to put the data on the table. You will find that it is not an empty box at all. You're even saying that I would have said this is an empty box, quod non. You're making a mess of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u69	You are already moving to the second part of the draft law, because of course you are aware that I have a point concerning the newcomer's declaration and the first part of your bill. In your place, I might try to do the same. I would like to dwell on the first part of your draft law, the newcomer's statement. The five months after the draft law was presented were not only not enough to reach a consensus with the regions, it has not even been discussed yet. So there is no newcomer statement at all after the adoption of this bill tomorrow. Besides, not everyone has to sign. More newcomers will not have to sign the Newcomer Declaration or sign it. I give the list of those who should not sign: asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016 were record years, so we are talking about much more than 25 000 people; family members of recognised refugees; EU citizens and their families and parents of unaccompanied minors. Those who will have to sign, are newcomers from the 9bis or 9b procedure and family owners from outside the European Union. That's only one third of the total number of family men. All newcomers who do not have to sign will receive a copy of the newcomer's declaration for information. Mr Secretary of State, the newcomer statement makes no difference in any way. I find it appalling that you have sold such a show and that you have undermined the very useful discussion about our standards and values. It's been pure symbolism. I come to the second part of your bill, the right of residence. That is indeed more substantial. The right of residence of the same group of newcomers may be terminated by the Secretary of State if the newcomers have not made sufficient efforts to integrate. More information can be found on page 40 of the booklet. We must consider how you will assess whether or not the integration of the foreigner has been successful. Integration can be assessed on the basis of the following criteria: the taking of an integration course; whether or not to have a job; a diploma, a certificate or a certificate of registration in an educational establishment; vocational training recognised by the competent authorities; knowledge of the language of the place of registration; any criminal record and any active or non-active participation in an association. On the basis of one or more of these criteria, you may decide to grant a discretionary power to you here as State Secretary to withdraw the right of residence. This is the same category of foreigners, namely the 20 000 to 25 000 newcomers that your newcomer declaration concerns. It's not about all the others. Those others are not at risk of losing their right of residence. Mr Secretary of State, you are imposing a particularly severe sanction on the basis of an unclear set of criteria. Why is it not enough for you to apply the sanctions that already exist in the regions? The regions are already able to impose sanctions on foreigners who are not sufficiently integrated. These sanctions exist, but the Flemish government rarely imposes those existing sanctions. Have you contacted your Flemish colleagues? Sanctions already exist for newcomers who are not sufficiently integrated. I'll go over it with you. In Flanders, there has been an integration decree since 2004. Mieke Vogels was at the time the leader of compulsory integration in Flanders. That decree was amended in 2013. Financial penalties of EUR 5 000 are now possible in Flanders, which is no less. Sanctions can also be imposed on living wages, unemployment benefits and social housing. However, it seems that Flanders rarely imposes these sanctions. I'd say shoemaker, stick to your reading. Integration is a regional competence. Your party has been in the Flemish government for more than ten years. If there is a problem in terms of integration, it is also your party's responsibility. You must ensure that legally established sanctions are applied as well. If there is a manifest unwillingness to integrate, sanctions are possible. However, you are doing more than just a little bit on top of it. That's disproportionate. You want to take away the right of residence for the persons concerned. That goes too far for us. Mr Secretary of State, sanctions are possible in the other regions too. There are also sanctions in Wallonia, including financial sanctions. In Brussels there is an ordinance in the making. It will be approved shortly. The German-speaking Community is not present for the time being. No integration course has yet been developed there. Therefore, there is scope for sanctions in the region. Your main argument for introducing sanctions here for foreigners who do not have a will to integrate is therefore no longer valid. These sanctions already exist, but they are rarely applied. Speaking of integration, I would like to ask you a question, Mr Secretary of State. What if the regions do not have a good integration policy? Will you or the Foreign Affairs Office still sanction the individual foreigner, because he does not want to show sufficient evidence of integration if insufficient resources are made available in the region, insufficient language courses, insufficient housing policy? Then what will you do? That's not obvious. I would like to ask you what your ambition is with the draft law. If it is your ambition to get as many of the 25 000 newcomers as possible out of our country, you will be able to do so. I wonder whether the fellow Members of the other majority parties are actually aware of this. When it comes to encouraging newcomers to integrate, these opportunities already exist at regional level. There are even sanctions. Not only are housing policy, integration and language regional powers for Flanders, there are even sanctions. Then why do you need this draft law, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u70	Mr De Vriendt, I did not mean to interrupt you, but I would like to point out the irony of your speech. You have just listed the number of newcomers to which the draft law does not apply, while you have so stressed in committee that you have not tabled the amendment, but if I am not mistaken, you have supported the fact that we should explicitly include the exhaustive list of newcomers to whom the newcomer statement would not apply, although it is already explicitly stated in the general explanatory statement. Nor is it illogical that it does not apply to certain newcomers. The exemption is based on a number of international rules to which we are bound, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the Geneva Convention. So, as you rightly point out, the application group consists of a good twenty-five thousand newcomers a year. That's not a bad thing. In the past, under the old law on family reunification, there were many more newcomers. Since the entanglement it has been about twenty thousand people, with the migrant workers a good twenty-five thousand. Now you ask the Secretary of State if it is the intention to keep them out as much as possible, to sanction them as much as possible, because we would hope to suggest to you that they would not pass the integration test. I think it's kind of perverse that you dare suggest that. I believe that they are still being kept out of society by the policies that have been pursued in recent years and by not encouraging newcomers enough to integrate, despite all the efforts made by the government, with Flanders as the frontrunner, in terms of language lessons, for example. Mrs Demir has already said that there are no waiting lists. Despite all the efforts made by the government, we have to note that the newcomers are still far too often excluded from society. That is the so-called tolerant, warm and social policy that has been pursued in recent years. I doubt that the integration, the inclusion, has succeeded effectively. We must all do this together. You are making constructive opposition, and I appreciate your courage to see it. Now we are gradually taking steps to achieve more successful integration. It'll take time. What is now in store is the first step. I therefore hope that you will take that step with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u71	Mrs Smeyers, I do not understand your explanation. Surely the draft law doesn't strengthen integration policy? The only thing it imposes is a sanction if the limited group of newcomers does not want to integrate into the bill. The draft law gives full power to the Secretary of State to rule on this matter. This does not strengthen integration policy. If you want to strengthen integration policy, I would advise you to contact the N-VA ministers in the Flemish government, where the N-VA has been in power for more than ten years and therefore had all the levers in its hands to draw up a strong integration policy, but has simply not done so. In order to strengthen integration policy, you need to be in Flanders and not here, at the federal level. You simply want to impose a severe, ruthless sanction, whereas sanctions already exist in Flanders. You want to place the power over that sanction regime entirely in the hands of the Secretary of State. That's what this bill is about. The draft law contains another element. The newcomers' declaration, which is an empty box, because its content depends on the regions that have to set the standards and values in this respect, only refers to a minority of the newcomers arriving annually in our country, namely twenty-five thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is partly wasted time and partly dangerous, because it introduces a very heavy sanction regime, which is totally unnecessary and falls entirely into the hands of the Secretary of State. We abstained in committee, but we will vote against the vote in plenary. Mr Secretary of State, we have had a lot of discussions with experts and we have tried to give you the benefit of the doubt. That advantage is no longer valid. It is not a good draft law and we do not understand that your colleagues from the majority will support it. In our opinion, only a no vote is in order, unless, of course, the spirits here in the hemisphere ripen and you would decide to remove that bill from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u72	I find your statement particularly paradoxical. You say, on the one hand, that the design is an empty box that doesn't count on anything or anyone else. On the other hand, you find the design dangerous. If it's an empty box, how can it be dangerous? I don't understand. You're gonna have to explain that to me. How can something be dangerous if it's an empty box? An empty box is by definition harmless, isn't it? If it doesn't count for anything or anyone, how can it be dangerous?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u73	I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u74	Furthermore, Mr De Vriendt, you excel in a particularly hypocritical attitude. In committee, you demanded that the recognised refugees be explicitly exempted. Here you say that there are too many exemptions, that it doesn't count for anything or anyone and that it's an empty box. Green calls for more exemptions in committee, please. Here in plenary, you say that too many newcomers are exempt from the obligation and that the text is an empty box. Please, please! I don't know what I'm hearing. You ask: what if there is no or insufficient integration offer? That is what I said in committee, and I would like to repeat it here. If, after a year, a newcomer has to demonstrate his integration efforts and can prove that, for example, there was an insufficient offer of language lessons in Dutch, French or German, depending on where he has settled, this will be taken into account. That element will play a part. One can't blame the stranger for wanting to register, but couldn't take a language class because there was no place. But, again, there's no waiting list right now. Suppose there are waiting lists again. This will then be taken into account in the evaluation and the right of residence of the person concerned will then be extended. It is obvious that one cannot blame the individual stranger if he wants to register, but he cannot take the lesson because the government is failing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u75	The nuance that you make here orally that there must be a sufficient range of integration courses and language courses and that you will not sanction if you do so is not stated in your bill. Your draft law states that, on the basis of a number of criteria, you will decide on the abolition of the right of residence and thus the expulsion of newcomers, which is not evident. What you're saying here is not in your design. It is not just about language courses, Mr Secretary of State. It is also about housing policy, in which Flanders is failing, and about integration policy in general, in which Flanders is totally failing. It's about that, too. That one small nuance, which you are now making here orally, is not in your bill. I would like to explain it to you again, because you clearly did not listen very carefully. Your newcomer's statement is an empty box, but the second part of your draft law, the sanctioning regime you want to impose, in particular the withdrawal of the right of residence when the limited group of foreigners is not sufficiently integrated, is dangerous. You are putting forward to this House a draft law consisting of two parts. The first part is an empty box, blown up in the media up to and including, but actually it doesn't mean much. That is a pity, because we could, however, have a useful debate on standards and values. The second part of the bill you submit to the House is dangerous. It is a sanctioning regime for a small group of newcomers, which involves the abolition of the right of residence, while at Flemish level there is already a sanction regime that the Flemish Government, of which your party has been a member for ten years, has not in practice applied. Then what are we voting on, colleagues? I would ask the majority members who are still here to ask the Secretary of State to remove the bill from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u76	Mr President, I will talk about my bench, because I do not have much to add to Mr. From Vriendt. First of all, I'll talk about the ideal world. We do politics, we propose a project and meaning. The ideal world with this project would have been for you, together with your colleagues from the federated entities, to have drawn up a cooperation agreement in which the French-, Flemish- and German-speaking federated entities would have agreed on a minimum base of values, to ensure that, in parallel with the exercise of the competence Integration of federated entities, a federal sanction of exclusion from the territory would come, possibly, for the heaviest cases, where there is clearly extreme non-integration. You would have negotiated for many months with your French-speaking, Flemish and German-speaking colleagues and you would have reached this foundation of common values. You would have signed this cooperation agreement, and then you would have proposed here, on our benches, a bill that reflected the foundation of values on which the federated entities, which are primarily competent in matters of integration, agreed. And there would be a system of coordinated values and sanctions between federated entities, including Mr. De Vriendt spoke, and the federal power. The federal government would provide the most severe sanction for the most extreme and serious cases of non-integration in the range of sanctions. This is the ideal world. It must be noted that you did not function by following this method. You work in two points. The first is a statement. First-time arrivals sign a so-called "integration" declaration, which states that they understand and act in accordance with fundamental values and standards. Because of the comments of the Council of State, you had to withdraw it from your bill, because it will have to be the subject of consultation with the federated entities. These, as you said, will begin in December. But on March 31, 2016, on Twitter, you shared widely a draft declaration that is not the one that will be finalized and that is not the result of the consultation with the federated entities. Your goal is not efficiency, but symbolism. You mean you're doing something about integration when it's not your responsibility, and you're proposing on Twitter on March 31 a draft list of values to be respected. These values are stigmatizing for first-time arrivals. Indeed, they are referred to as macho a priori if they are men, or more or less linked to terrorism as foreigners. As Mr.Kir has said, it is contrary to the passage of your bill that states that this statement is above all a welcome message to foreigners. Your draft charter as published on Twitter on March 31 proves the opposite: it is not a welcome message, but a message of stigmatization. Beyond the declaration of integration, different criteria are set out in section 3 of your bill. They aim to provide the Office of Foreigners with the ability to verify the efforts made by abroad in terms of integration. As we have told you in committee, the Office's margin of appreciation is particularly large. For example, we know that today the labour market is very tense for all citizens and, in particular, for people of foreign origin - who are themselves victims of discrimination. Will this be taken into account in determining whether the foreigner has made sufficient efforts in terms of integration? Then your project, Mr. De Vriendt, is dangerous, not because it would be an empty box, but precisely because it grants the Agency this power to check whether a foreigner is integrated according to criteria which are laid down, I would remind you, by Article 3. These integration measures can be interpreted restrictively. They are specified. As you said earlier, most of the public to whom this Act will apply is made up of persons who benefit from family reunification. I would point out that the European Directive 2003/86 deals with this issue. In this respect, case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union indicates that Article 7 of the same Directive strictly limits the discretion of governments to apply the right of access to the territory. However, through the above-mentioned article, you add conditions of stay such as having to work, mastering the language or participating in associative life. In my view, your bill contravenes European law and is likely to give rise to an appeal to the Constitutional Court, beyond the problems of conflict of jurisdiction, in this case the non-compliance with European law. As I said, and all colleagues have repeated, this will apply to a number of people, mainly those who benefit from family reunification, among them an immense majority of women. I would like to know if you, who drafted this bill, and your services, have conducted a study of the impact that this can have on women. They are often single men who move, come to us and then bring their families, especially their wives or spouses. How will these restrictive measures on the right of residence have an impact on women? Have you measured the percentage of women that this may affect beyond the absolute number? To conclude my speech, Mr President, I would like to quote a carte blanche which was published by a researcher from the Université libre de Bruxelles today in La Libre Belgique: "In order to be integrated, it takes two parts: it is impossible to enter a room with closed doors. The basic principles of integration policy for migrants in the European Union do not say anything else: integration is a dynamic, two-way process of reciprocal compromise between all immigrants and residents of the Member States. Integration only with threats and sanctions is a decoy." Your bill, Secretary of State, is not about integration. It is a strictly draft of sanctions. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard today that this draft law is a milestone in foreign policy, that this bill also represents a turning point in foreign policy because of the simple fact that for the first time a declaration with a number of conditions is indeed linked to the residence permit. That's new, I can't deny it. It was in your program, and you realized it. We can discuss the points and the commas. Maybe we should do that first. It has been said here several times, only a limited part of the newcomers will sign them. People of Turkish nationality do not, asylum seekers do not, family men do not. There are options for discussion about the sanctioning. Does it or doesn't it? The sanctioning is rather vague and you seem to be given a great authority to issue or not to impose the sanction. The fact that compliance as such is not really linked to very clear conditions may also lead to a lack of sanctioning, which we will have to wait and see. There is also the discussion on the text of the Newcomer Declaration. If there will be one technical problem in the coming months, perhaps even in the years to come, that is, of course, to find a consensus. You seek what I understand, I would also do so in the case of a newcomer's declaration which is not asymmetric, which will be the same in the different Communities. If that were not the case, the newcomer's declaration would of course have been written down in advance. In the event of the slightest dispute, the newcomer will eventually be right in court if he were ever rejected on the basis of that newcomer's statement, by you or your administration, because of the simple fact that there are two separate statements in the same country, which will automatically lead to a suspension of your possible refusal to grant the residence permit on the basis of the non-compliance of the newcomer's statement. I did not accuse you in committee, let us be mild today, but I did point out that it is perhaps your intention to let this whole story, which is, of course, politically symbolic, especially for your party, stand up to the fact that there are Community differences between the Communities, which, unfortunately, may not make it possible to produce a unisono like-minded newcomers' declaration, with the result that the whole story dies silently. I am not going to conduct any intentional processes on that either, and we will see what comes of it. Apart from the debate on sanctioning, regardless of the story on the text of the newcomer statement, apart from the debates that can be held on who signs, there is a minimum of one subject that I would like to touch briefly as an introduction. That is the fact that, of course, the whole story has no retroactive force. This is just about newcomers. I know, we have about 120,000 foreigners entering our country every year, of which about half are non-EU aliens. I think less than half of them will eventually have to sign that newcomer's statement. But what about all those who are already here? There are a lot of problems with that. The recent facts of radicalisation and such have proved this all too clearly. But, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, what is much more essential to me than this detail criticism to which we are now restricted is the essential debate: do we need a newcomer statement? That is the essence of the debate. My answer is, no, we don't need that. We don't need a newcomer's statement, we don't need newcomers anymore. That must be the essential starting point. We have to go for an immigration stop. We should put that forward instead of a newcomer's statement. A newcomer's declaration means accepting the circumstances, it means accepting the immigration invasion, it means accepting the permanent influx of foreigners to our country. I say, full is full. I say enough is enough. I say that the borders must be closed and that we must ensure that there are no new foreigners, no more newcomers to our country. That must be the starting point for our immigration policy. Now we say that we will have everyone who comes, at least a limited part of it, sign a statement. I have heard Mrs De Coninck and I can agree with her for once, une fois nüsest pas coutume. I fear that everyone will sign that statement, as far as they already know what they are signing, if only because they want to stay here, because they intend to be present in our country for as long as possible. Of course, that's where the shoe is wringing. That is why I think that we should stick to another string, in particular the string of the immigration stop and not the string of the attempt to integrate more and more foreigners. That is why they do not integrate: because there are simply too many and because there are more and more. Why should we still integrate in neighbourhoods where more than 60% to 70% of Muslims and non-European foreigners are already present? It is our native population that integrates into the alien community. It is the Flemings, the Walls and the Brusselsers who integrate into the Islamic communities instead of vice versa. Perhaps, instead of a newcomer declaration, we should make an old-fashioned declaration, not only for the immigrants living here, but also for the few remaining indigenous people in the neighbourhoods concerned, in order to protect their rights in these impoverished and Islamicised neighbourhoods. Finally, Mr Secretary of State. In your draft law, in the conditions and in the integration criteria you put forward, I miss one word, the problem of a great deal of misery in the areas of migration, multiculture and immigration, a five-letter word: Islam. Why does this newcomer statement not mention the fundamental problem by name? Don't you dare? You don't like it? Or can't you? I don't believe the latter. You can do it, I'm sure. You can't. You want it, but you don't like it from your coalition partners, when you know very well that that's where the shoe is wringing. As long as we do not dare to talk about this issue, about Islam as such, in the newcomer statement and do not put it forward as one of the integration criteria, it will never work. Then I fear that this newcomer statement will turn out to be an empty box. What should happen when it comes to Islam? That's easy. In that newcomer statement, we must explicitly dare to say that as a Muslim, we must agree to the deletion of all the passuses in the Qur'an that go against the separation of church and state, all the passuses in the Qur'an that compromise or question the equality of man and woman, all the passuses in the Qur'an that constitute hostility towards unbelievers, disthinkers, perverses and women. We must include in the newcomers' declaration and in the conditions of integration that those who want a residence permit here must reject the Sharia. We must include in the integration criteria the rejection of all the passions in the Qur'an that are contrary to freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In fact, we have to rip half of the Koran out of that damned book. If we do not do so, if we do not oblige the Muslims who come here in dense droves, then this newcomer statement is a measure of nothing. I fully agree with my good colleague and friend from the Netherlands, Geert Wilders, who rightly states that the whole problem of integration and multiculture is ultimately bound by the problem of Islam. In his view, if we do not tackle, curb and curb Islam, we will never be able to integrate the countless newcomers who are already there and who are still there, not to integrate, but to assimilate them into our European society. Islam and Europe will not and will never be able to go together, will not and will never be compatible, because Islam and Europe are the opposite of each other, because they have always been, and because, to the regret of the naives who envy and contradict that, they will always remain in the future. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to urge you once again not to sweep this issue under the carpet and not to pretend that there is nothing wrong with it. Don't, almost triumphalistly, pretend it's all inside now, like that newcomer statement will make the big difference for the future. Quite the contrary. Despite my sharp criticism and my politically incorrect analysis, I still want to be mild. I would like to announce that we will abstain, because every small step forward and every small entanglement of the foreign law is better than no entanglement, better than standstill or relaxation, as unfortunately we have seen too often in the past. Our criticism is too fundamental to approve this. It goes beyond the details I have heard here. The most important point is that the debate on Islam is not conducted, that the conditions for integration are not linked to the major problem, particularly totalitarian, intolerant and sectarian Islam. I would add that the option you are taking is not ours. Your angle is not ours. We should not go for more immigration and more newcomers, but for fewer, fewer and fewer: fewer immigrants, fewer newcomers and fewer immigrants. This can only be achieved by a halt to immigration. Then we will no longer need a newcomer statement because we will no longer have newcomers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u78	I have no further speakers. I call the government, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u79	I have already given many answers. Mr Kir, I understand that your group's abstention is justified by the fact that it is necessary to have a negotiation with the federated entities. We have already held consultations and we will have consultations in the coming weeks after the vote tomorrow in plenary. We have the will to bring this project to a successful conclusion and to have a concrete result for the integration of the first arrivals. Could your group contribute at Walloon level and at Community level? Absolutely! And I am sure that we will arrive at a text that will suit all groups. We must respect the way the institutions in Belgium operate and the reforms of the State, which are not always very clear, but that is the case. There is no doubt that the Communities have competence in this area of integration. Mrs De Coninck, I think I have responded to a lot of comments. For Green too, Mr De Vriendt, I think I have also answered the questions. Mr Hellings, what percentage is women? I don't have the numbers. My staff are asking the Office, but I don't have them yet. I'm pretty sure most of them represent men, but we're going to check it out. I will forward the answer to you before the vote in plenary tomorrow night. Secondly, you say that it is discrimination or stigma and that NGOs will certainly bring a remedy. I do not think I have introduced a bill for which the NGOs have not appealed. I'm very used to it. For all my proposals, all my draft laws, groups systematically bring appeals, either to the Council of State or to the Constitutional Court or to the European Court. This is the democratic state, the rule of law; therefore, no worries! I only note, Mr. Hellings, that it is not obvious for the organizations, who are always the first to bring appeals..., that since my mandate, even before the family reunification of 2011, and for all the laws that have followed, never, ever... There has never been a suspension or a destruction of the essence of our draft laws or proposals. You say that there will certainly be an appeal against it: that the NGOs will then do their thing. That's their right. If they want to exhaust their democratic rights, they must do so above all. However, I can see that until today, no bill or bill we have tabled here has been suspended or destroyed by the Constitutional Court. None. I'm actually pretty proud of that, so I'm gonna repeat it three times. Every proposal we have put forward here in this Chamber of Representatives has passed the legal test. All of them, every proposal. But who am I to blame the NGOs? If they want to file an appeal, that's what they do. I have not yet tabled any draft law against which they have not appealed. I would therefore be surprised if they did not appeal against this, as they always do. This is a big step forward. It is also a fundamental step. Of course, they'll appeal against it if they do. Let's go, let's go. I wish them good luck. We will certainly defend ourselves very well. Besides, I think we've been doing a good job of that in the last few weeks. We've had one of those cases recently. Mr Dewinter, of course you dance on two legs. You say that we do not really need all this because we need an immigration stop, but you also say that this newcomer statement is not good, that we need to change them, that there is nothing about Islam and so on. I have also read that your party chairman, your good friend Tom Van Grieken, has launched an immigration stop. An immigration stop. I thought that European extreme right focused mostly on Islam today, that she had stepped away a bit to target all migrants. Now they return to the principle of turning everything into one soup, all migrants. Personally, I find that a little weird. I have to say that I can't imagine anything. Not letting a single migrant in anymore? I assume it's a non-European immigration summit. I assume it is not about French or Dutch, I assume it is a non-European stop. I also assume that it is an immigration stop that focuses on certain countries. After all, I do not see what would be wrong with an American manager coming to work in the port of Antwerp as part of labour migration. I take it that's not what you're talking about. A total immigration stop for ten years, that's just absurd. If you say that there should be an asylum stop or a family reunification stop, something you launched during our debate at a debate club in Antwerp, then that is legal nonsense. There's no getting out of it. If one would like it, then that is not possible at all. There are a number of European, Belgian and international rules of law which require the right to family life. That's a good thing. There are, of course, certain rights for people who are fleeing, and that is a good thing. An immigration stop, that's talk, that's just kidding people. That is completely impossible in practice. Anyway, that's probably gonna sound good with some of the guys, to push them up. If you say that a solution must be found for the unbridled asylum chaos of the last 18 months, then I agree with you. You talk about it, I'll do something about it. I'm working on it day and night. We have concluded an EU-Turkey deal that will reduce the number of deaths in the Aegean Sea to almost zero. The chaotic influx via the Balkan route, via Austria and further on to Western Europe has stopped. We're working on a solution for the Libya route. That's the biggest influx now. People die every day. In the meantime, more than eleven thousand people have drowned. That is a disgrace to Europe. There is an urgent need to find a solution to this. That solution lies, if it depends on me, in North Africa. Better reception in the region, more comfort in the refugee camps there, settlement possibly, certain quotas, not only for the strongest who are now making the boat trip, also select the weakest, the most vulnerable: that is what needs to be done. If that is what you mean by an immigration stop, because everything is being thrown into one pile, and that is not desirable, and I do not even think you are talking about it, but it may sound good... So if it is about an asylum chaos stop, a stop on the asylum chaos of the last year and a half: we are working hard on that. I'll give you a page that'll be there. There will be a structural solution for the influx through Libya in the coming weeks. I also note that Mrs Merkel's CDU will put the Australian approach to her congress to the vote this weekend. In any case from my party and from the government you know very clearly that we must stop the asylum chaos. Resolution, shelter in the region, no more drowning deaths in the Mediterranean. It is now a matter of priority. If that's what you mean, I can tell you, you talk about it, we're working on it. That's the difference between you and me. You say that there is no need for a newcomer's statement, but if there is, you claim that it is now an empty box and that this newcomer's statement is also about almost nobody. Again, I absolutely disagree with that. It is about most of the family lords and family reunification is still the biggest gateway. We will impose maximum on everyone what we can and can impose international law. What we cannot do will simply not go. You can agree with it or not, and you have clearly expressed your point of view. However, I have to abide by the rules of law, or else you would imagine that the NGOs might be right at the Constitutional Court, and I would not allow them to. So I'm sticking to the rules of law. Mr Dewinter, you claim that the newcomer statement is far too blurry and does not come to the essence, because it has to be about the five-letter word, Islam, it has to be about the Sharia. I can only say that the newcomers' declaration I submit to the Länder is very clear. We do not fish for one faith; we absolutely do not want to do that. However, it is about the fact that young girls should be able to wear the clothes they want. However, it is about equality between men and women, about the separation between church and state, about respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Mr Dewinter, you know that this statement was made with Professor Vermeersch, who is an eminence grise in our country on European, international and universal human rights. Professor Vermeersch knows perfectly what and from what point when it comes to defining the basic principles and pillars on which our democracy and our freedom are based. That's what that text says. It is, however, about a number of particularly painful things, which are bothering everyone. It is true that these things also occur in certain religious communities, in certain conservative interpretations of their beliefs. However, if you say that you cannot accept the text if it does not explicitly state that Islam is endorsed, then you should vote against it. We will not, of course, do that; that is not the case. However, we will discuss the bad and bad excesses of some of the interpretations of Islam, and that is in black and white in the newcomers' declaration. You know that well enough. It is about waste of faith, about wearing clothes that one wants to wear, about equality between men and women. That is absolutely not a measure for nothing, it will make a difference. I'll make an appointment with all the critics in a year's time on the Chambers Committee. I will be happy to present my results, as I do every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u80	Mr President, I thank Mr Franken for his very comprehensive answers. However, I would like to speak about the necessary openness to federated entities. It is essential to have an agreement with the Communities if you want to avoid recourse by associations. In this regard, you have indicated your firm will to reach an agreement. An open mindset should therefore be adopted in order to move forward. Both in terms of integration and how you intend to manage the integration criteria – since you make it a condition, with the declaration of integration, of obtaining and renewing the right of residence – you will need to find the right modus vivendi for your administration to have objectified information before making a decision. It would be a shame not to do so, especially for families. In this regard, I thank Mr Hellings for speaking about it, because they often include vulnerable people. It is important to find solutions tailored to each situation. Mr Franken, you will have to exercise an open and constructive attitude with the Regions in order to reach an agreement. I wish you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u81	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1901/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1901/11) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u83	Annex V.Part
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u84	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u85	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u86	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u87	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u88	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u90	Mr President, I would like to refer again to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u91	Mr. Chair, I will try to be brief because the previous bill has given rise to three times as long discussions in plenary as in committee. It's becoming usual. On the draft tabled on the table, I would say that on the substance, I fully understand the political objective. As a first step, we are trying to demonstrate that foreigners are expensive and, in a second step, we are showing citizens that we are charging more expensive services to discourage them from coming home. We are in the same political line as the one that caused the increase in case fees for people who want to enter our territory. In the explanatory memorandum, you refer to a study which was discussed in committee, which was carried out by the Agency for Administrative Simplification, to justify the fact that the processing of applications for residence permits by persons of foreign origin is more expensive than those submitted by European or Belgian citizens. When it was discussed in committee, this study was not available. We were able to read it through the commission's intranet in its Dutch version. It hasn't been translated, it's already a problem. On the other hand, you say that there are often appeals to the Council of State by associations and that these appeals never succeed. This is already an opinion of the Council of State and it already raises a number of problems. This opinion refers to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and raises essentially two problems in relation to the cost of identity card. For a non-European national, the Council of State states that this cost should not be disproportionate to the cost of a card issued to a Belgian or a citizen of the European Union. But you yourself say, in the explanatory memorandums of your project, that this cost cannot be defined by yourself and that this will be settled by a royal decree. You are evacuating the problem raised by the Council of State by referring it to a royal decree that will be taken. But, in my view, the problem will also arise for the Royal Order as well as for your bill. You are referring in committee to the cost that could be charged for an identity card to a non-European citizen. You've been up to 50 euros, if I have a good memory. You estimate that depending on the knowledge of the costs of the services that are generated by the instruction, the issue of this card could amount to up to 50 euros. That shocked me a bit. The cost of an electronic identity card requested by the Ministry of the Interior from the municipalities is now around 17 euros. I found Ben Weyts' speeches during the previous legislature. Ben Weyts was a member of the N-VA. He went out in the press, I still have the articles, that he found scandalous that the price of identity cards was increased by one euro. And you, you find it normal that we can ask foreigners for 50 euros by identity card instead of 17 to 20 euros! In general, there is still a woman and maybe one or two children. It's still a significant budget. The Council of State also states that this cost must not exceed the applicant's financial capacity. It is also a question of inquiry. How will you define this element? As with the previous element, you will say that a royal decree will define it. Oh, yes! Well done! So, each time, you refer all this to a royal decree, but on the substance, the opinion of the Council of State remains. Defining the applicant's financial capacity will also lead to an administrative workload which will also result in costs, thus an additional cost. You also miss out on the objective of saving money or reducing the cost of training the issue of the document for the municipalities. Finally, what is the purpose of this bill, apart from serving the political objective that I described at the beginning of my speech? I'm not convinced of what you're proposing. You're going to have a lot of trouble countering the Council of State's remarks. You'll probably tell us just now how you're going to do it. In committee, you didn't. That is why I have allowed myself to re-develop the argument already developed in committee. I will not go much further and will not unnecessarily grab the microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u92	I would like to speak on behalf of Mrs Schepmans, who is chosen by her communal council. Local democracy is important. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment provided for in this bill sets the maximum amount of compensation that municipalities may receive for the renewal, extension or replacement of residence permits. I would like to stress that the processing of these applications is a considerable administrative burden for municipalities with a large foreign population. Perhaps Mr Thiébaut is less concerned in his commune. The bill discussed this afternoon allows for this cost to be taken into account and leaves it to each municipality to determine the amount it will ask of the persons concerned. In addition, each municipality has the option of introducing or not introducing the proposed regulation. Each judge according to its means, financial opportunities or priorities. The difficulty is that it is often communes with few financial resources that have to deal with a large number of residence permits. Human and financial support for local authorities is therefore very positive. The Royal Decree announced by the Secretary of State will also ensure that the financial capacity of each applicant is taken into account. Depending on this, the MR Group will support the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u93	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law should enable the municipalities to gain more financial strength in order to cover the costs of renewing, extending or replacing certain temporary residence cards for foreigners. This is very specific about the A-card. In 2015, more than 40 000 persons applied for an extension of their temporary residence card, which is no less. The Administrative Simplification Service or DAV carried out a measurement. The DAV Measurement Office has measured that the administrative burden for municipalities between July 2015 and September 2015 in the administrative handling of that type of cards is much more complex than the renewal of ordinary identity cards for nationals. It is therefore clear that this handling is an additional workload for the local authorities. Several municipalities, including my own city of Aalst, have opened a specific foreign office, just to be able to work on those specific applications, in order to be able to handle them more quickly and better. With the maximum fee that a municipality will now be entitled to collect, the municipality or city can cover the administrative costs incurred in handling those applications. In fixing that maximum amount, it is logical that it should be taken into account that it is a proportionate amount, which is not disproportionate to the fee charged by the State for issuing an identity card for its own nationals or citizens of the European Union. It has also been ensured that the amount does not exceed the applicant's financial capacity. The principle of proportionality is therefore certainly guaranteed and respected in respect of the maximum amount, which should not be imposed. The local authorities are free to fill that out themselves. Consequently, the draft law does not affect the autonomy of the municipalities, but merely creates the option for the municipalities to ask for the fee or not. It is a good draft law that gives the local authorities the freedom to levy the fee, of course with a proportional ceiling. Mr Secretary of State, I think it is clear that our group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u94	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the present draft law implements a compromise in the coalition agreement. I can honestly admit that we are not a large asking party, but we finally reached an agreement and today the draft law is now on the vote. We shall therefore vote in favour of the text, because it is the implementation of the coalition agreement. With this text, we are merely creating the legal framework within which municipalities can but do not have to charge a fee for renewing, extending or replacing a certain residence permit. The broad lines of the measure, which will be worked out in detail in royal decrees, are clear: municipalities can impose a maximum amount of EUR 50, only once a year. This means that municipal authorities can decide to raise a lower amount or even not to introduce a residence fee at all, because it is not worth the cabbage, because very few foreigners, for example, settle in the municipality. We have always stressed the need to take account of a number of factors, which are also included in the text. The amount must be proportionate and proportionate to the fee paid by the municipality for the renewal of identity cards. Nor shall the amount exceed the financial capacity of the applicant. If foreigners can prove that the amount exceeds their carrying capacity for some reason, they cannot be denied the residence permit. We are therefore pleased that these principles have been added to the explanatory statement. Soon the text will be worked out in royal decrees. We have also asked that account be taken of the other fee that we have already introduced, namely the fee for the residence application, which is imposed once by DVZ. It has been agreed, and that is what is being proposed, and we welcome the fact that the fee will only apply to persons with a temporary residence permit, i.e. persons with A-cards. We also insist that there should be an exception for certain groups. These still need to be defined, but we were already thinking of unaccompanied minors, victims of trafficking in human beings, persons with medical regularisation and asylum seekers, categories which are also exempt from the fee for the residence application imposed by DVZ. We cannot decide on the exceptions ourselves in Parliament, but we would like to make suggestions about the target groups, Mr Secretary of State. You have asked the Council of State for an opinion on this matter. We'll look into that when it's there. In any case, we are convinced that the groups listed should be exempt from residence tax. We shall approve the present draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u95	Mrs. Lanjri just made a very beautiful freudian slip. She said that the draft law was well in place. That's probably not what she meant. I will not repeat everything, but in the light of administrative simplification, we do not think it is a missed chance that someone who has to go through a number of procedures to get a residence permit or an identity card, among other things, should be given a global price, after which the money is divided internally between the various levels of government involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u96	Mr President, a number of general comments were made. I think I have made it clear in committee that two important points will still have to be dealt with by means of an RB. The first concerns exemptions, in which context suggestions were asked to the Council of State as to which categories of international law would be best exempted. The second point is a regulation for persons whose financial capacity would be exceeded if this were to be imposed. How exactly this will be defined should be recorded in the Royal Decree. Negotiations on this matter are under way. This will be worked out once this bill has become law and is effective. Then it'll follow KB. One thing follows after another, that makes sense. For the rest, I can only say that what we are proposing here has been discussed for years. It started in Antwerp, where the ship's college had proposed to introduce a municipal fee for foreign cards. The provincial governor had said that this was not possible, because the law had to be amended accordingly. That's exactly what we want to do, change the law. So I think we are taking a step forward. In my opinion, the municipal authorities will introduce the fee massively. I think that they will do so because they know perfectly well that there are administrative costs involved in extending alien cards, because this is on top of the usual work. That is also very clear from the study. I can only say that the amount of 50 euros is the result of a DAV study at the following cities and municipalities: Antwerp, Leuven, Genk, Ghent, Ixellecht, Anderlecht, Schaerbeek, Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, Liège and Charleroi. A good balance has been found between cities and municipalities of all kinds. That's a representative sample. So that 50 euro doesn't just fall out of the sky. I think it's a reasonable amount that can be requested. There will therefore be another KB with a system of exemptions. The same Royal Decree lays down rules for those for whom this is too expensive. In my view, this is only a limited group, which we will effectively exempt on the basis of certain criteria. I hope that we can move on quickly, Mr President. This is also important for the budgets of the municipalities for 2017. I know some city authorities who are certainly asking for this opportunity. It is a question of good governance that it is made clear to the municipalities that they should include this item in their accounts, because they will be able to collect that amount from next year. That is why we must continue to work quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u97	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2097/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2097/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u101	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2045/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2045/3) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Article 61/2 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens in order to replace the order to leave the territory with a temporary residence document in the procedure of victims of trafficking in human beings." The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending article 61/2 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens in order to replace the order to leave the territory with a temporary residence document in the framework of the procedure of trafficking in human beings". The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u105	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karin Temmerman, Peter Vanvelthoven, Johan Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u107	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been repeating this since Fukushima: we must never exclude a large-scale nuclear accident, even in those countries which have complete control of technology. Unfortunately, we saw this with the nuclear accident at Fukushima in Japan. To say that, Madam Minister, is not to play with fear, but simply to be transparent and accountable. Too many today are the public officials who practice a form of denial in the face of the inherent risks of the atom. We must stop saying stupidly that zero risk does not exist, while comfortably thinking that a nuclear accident will never happen in Belgium. It's unlikely. The risk is obviously low but cannot be excluded. For years, a compensation scheme for victims has been organized: compensation for the damage suffered by the victims of a nuclear accident, which is organised under international conventions. You know they've been reviewed over time. On the initiative of the PS, the 1985 law was amended in 2011 to increase, as has been repeated, the maximum amount up to which the operator can be held liable by 1.2 billion euros. In 2014, new positive change for potential victims, since they are better protected: the prescription of bodily harm went from 10 years to 30 years in 2014. And we are introducing the possibility for the State to grant a guarantee, obviously for nuclear operators in the event of an accident, but a guarantee, I insist, because this law does not respond to this, with the payment of compensation to the State since it is the State that offers its guarantee. That goes without saying. Mrs Marghem, I repeated it in committee, in December 2015, you tried to table an amendment in program law to try to prevent the 2014 law from coming into force in early January 2016. The manoeuvre didn't work. There was still dramatization on the part of opposition groups and even of the majority who did not follow you. Everyone felt that this important matter could not be dealt with at the same time. As a result, the 2014 law came into force in early 2016 and the difficulties are known today. The current legal insecurity is due not to this parliament, but to the minister's inaction between October 2014 and December 2015. Here we go. I therefore regret the way the minister works, because, once again, you did not get it last year, but, again, you waited long months for us to vote on these laws as a matter of urgency. It is Parliament that must urgently catch up with your own delays. Here's the shape. Now let us deal with the substance, Madam Minister, which is a disaster. If there was only the form, it could still pass. This bill is nothing but a fundamental step backwards from the 2014 law. Since the 2014 law, compensation for personal injury, occurring within 10 to 30 years, from the date of the nuclear accident, is borne by the nuclear operator. This bill goes back and places this financial burden on the State and, without any compensation being paid to the State for this service rendered to the operator. This will be the case at least until 2018 or later, if the government decides, since there is not even a date in the law, it is a royal decree that will determine tomorrow whether it is in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2025, what do I know again! In its opinion, the Council of State considers, this time, that this provision has all the characteristics of State aid. We're coming back, Mr. Friart. To all the laws that Mrs Marghem submits, the Council of State says "attention, it's state aid". On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, and in order to avoid Belgium being condemned by the European Commission, on the initiative of the Sp.a., we have signed an amendment which Mrs Temmerman will explain to you in a moment. For the PS, it is very clear that to charge the community, for an indefinite period of time, and without compensation, reparation of bodily harm is an unacceptable advantage, an unacceptable gift, given to the nuclear sector. Madam Minister, after the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the fall in the nuclear rent is a new gift that you offer to nuclear operators, to Electrabel and Engie in particular. Of course, we strongly condemn this new gift. The debate we have today must be an opportunity to raise the issue of unlimited civil liability - I believe my colleague will also return - not only the unlimited civil liability of nuclear operators but also the joint responsibility of the parent companies. We have discussed this issue many times in the Committee on the Economy. The current system has advantages that I have mentioned, but of course it has disadvantages. I believe that unlimited responsibility and, above all, the role of the mother houses should have been part of our discussions. We know how Engie benefits from Electrabel today. We don't see why, if there was a nuclear accident, it would only be Electrabel who would be responsible and not his mother-house. That's not acceptable. You did not want to open the debate on unlimited liability either. We regret this, of course, because it exists in other countries such as Germany, for example. Today, ladies and gentlemen, what do we have? In 1985, in 2011, in 2014, the previous governments but also, each time, this parliament passed laws that improved the state's situation, improved the situation of the victims and, of course, strengthened the duties of nuclear operators. Now with this law, it is a total reversal, that is, that we have decided to put the interests of the nuclear operators before that of the population and that of the State. With all Mrs Marghem's projects, these are gifts to Electrabel and gifts to Engie. It's the state that's headed. It's the consumer who pays. This is totally unacceptable, and it is a real step backwards in relation to a nuclear risk policy that has been in place since 1985, which has been in place for more than 30 years. It's not mean. It's just facts. You have to read the law, Mr. Flahaux! I'm just saying what's in this bill. As you will understand, colleagues, we will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u109	Mr President, I would have two small comments on what my colleague was saying, since I did not have the opportunity to speak while she was speaking. This is a project that was not presented at the end of 2015. It was a project that followed its path. He also passed through the Council of State, which had delivered an opinion. It was already due to pass in November 2015 but it was the Conference of Presidents, through an agreement between the majority and the opposition, which, in view of a very busy 2015 agenda, had decided to postpone it in 2016. But the project was ready in 2015. Furthermore, at the last committee meeting, Mr Dussart-Desart was very clear about state aid. I quote: "The state of relations with the competent services of the European Commission does not give rise to any particular concerns. The case seems to be solid, especially since several European bodies, such as Euratom, are encouraging States to take steps to ensure the proper functioning of the system of objective liability. All this seems to indicate that Europe does not consider there to be state aid." I come back to my speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u110	Mr Friart, far from me the idea of keeping the debate going. However, let me ask you to make sense. If the bill was in place in November 2015 – we just wanted to make an amendment and a budget program act when this bill has no budgetary implications – how come it was tabled on Parliament's table in November 2016 with a request for an emergency? Why did the minister not table it in January 2016, when there were no problems? Let's be a little serious! As I said, the shape is the one usually used, we asked for urgency. There are delays and it is Parliament that has to make up for the minister's delays. On the other hand, of course, Europe says that this objective coverage should be organised for victims. But when there is State coverage, when the state offers a guarantee and it risks having billions and billions of costs in the event of a nuclear incident, it has to charge that guarantee. That's all they say. Otherwise, the state gives a gift to the farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u111	In fact, during 2016, operators had to make sure. However, it has been found that at this stage no insurance company agrees to insure this risk. A guarantee must therefore be made with the government. All this is going to happen. These are the reasons why this project is being submitted to you today. Now I'm going to the project. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on April 22, 2014, our House passed the bill amending the Act of July 22, 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. This law extended the nuclear civil liability of operators. It added to the damage already taken into account, compensation for environmental damage and increased the limitation period for personal injury to 30 years. The bill before us today does not call into question these important achievements under the nuclear civil liability regime. On the other hand, it aims to take into account, on the one hand, the practical constraints created by the entry into force of this law on 1 January 2016 but also, on the other hand, to take into account the requirements laid down by the European Union, which the Council of State had itself stressed, when examining the draft which became the law of 29 June 2014. What is it? The practical problems I am referring to are first of all related to the fact that it appears today that the nuclear insurance market still does not have the capacity to cover the risks associated with the new guarantees offered by the Act of 29 June 2014. Moreover, the 2004 protocols to the 1960 Paris Convention on Civil Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy, which the Act of 29 June 2014 wished to transpose into our domestic law, have not yet entered into force. Two European countries, the United Kingdom and Italy, have not yet ratified these instruments, although the first country is about to ratify them. However, it has always been clear to the legislator, and therefore to the parties belonging to the former majority, that these provisions could only enter into force once all the Member States of the European Union, which are parties to the Convention, have ratified them. This is a condition of simultaneousity required by the decision of the European Council of 8 March 2004. In other words, this can only be implemented once all the countries of Europe have ratified the Convention. The Council of State had stressed this. This bill preserves the main achievements of the 2014 Act. It shall temporarily suspend certain provisions of that Act until the conditions necessary for its applicability and entry into force can be met. Finally, the draft law creates an interpretative provision that removes any ambiguity as to the amount of a nuclear civil liability of an operator, fixed since 1 January 2012 at €1.2 billion. As a reminder, the regime historically in force in Belgium establishes the limited liability of the operator of the nuclear facility in return for the fact that the victims will not have to prove fault in the latter's head. On the occasion of the bill's consideration, some members indicated that they wished to introduce unlimited liability in the event of a nuclear accident. In particular, the proposed law advocated by Mrs Temmerman required each operator to guarantee the availability of EUR 2.5 billion, as would be the case in Germany. In truth – it was recalled in committee – such a proposal is based on an erroneous interpretation of German legislation. The capacity of nuclear liability insurance is roughly the same in all Western European States. Contrary to what has been supported in committee, German operators are not insured up to EUR 2.5 billion, but EUR 256 million. The balance must be provided by a contractual solidarity mechanism between all operators and other companies in the nuclear sector. It will be recalled that the amount available is linked to the size of the nuclear industry in Germany. Not so long ago, it was five times more important than the Belgian nuclear industry. It should be borne in mind that such an attractive proposal would also endanger the nuclear transport sector in Belgium. Indeed, the determination of an amount of insured civil liability or to be guaranteed unrelated to the real risk would not be economically justifiable and would endanger the continuation of certain trade or research activities. Some sites could close or relocate, with all the consequences it could have on employment, and we care about it. The proposal could thus make it impossible to operate (the low-risk facility), as in the case of the IRE in Fleurus and the SKC-CEN in Mol, by repealing the King's ability to set reduced civil liability amounts for low-risk facilities and transport facilities. They would therefore have been forced to have insurance of up to €2.5 billion, regardless of the risk posed by the installation or transport. Again, such a measure would have proved to be arbitrary. In doing so, we could only reject this proposal in committee and we will continue to vote on it at the plenary session. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provisional postponement of the extension of the obligation of reparation in the regime of nuclear civil liability to environmental damage will not affect the safeguards currently in force. Most, if not all, environmental damage remains covered by other rules providing for compensation for damage. Thus, an infringement of property in the event of soil pollution will give rise to a right to compensation in respect of the owner of the property. We hope that the two European States parties to the Convention, which still have to ratify the 2004 protocol, will do so quickly so that the positive contributions of the 2014 law can finally be realized. In the meantime, it was necessary to temporarily postpone the entry into force of the new regime provided for by the Act of 29 June 2014. That is why we will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u112	Mr President, I shall not dwell on the scale of the draft before us. Mrs Lalieux has already talked about this in detail. However, I would like to reiterate, Mr Friart, that your reasoning that everything was ready by the end of 2015 does not make sense, since the discussion of the draft did not begin until November 2016, i.e. 11 months later. Once again, Parliament must correct the tampering of the Marghem cabinet. We must pursue them and deal with the design quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government will once again give Electrabel a gift. We are used to that in the meantime, but now, of course, it is a gift that could be very expensive for our country. So let us hope that it never happens. What exactly is being decided? It is decided that the government, that is, all of us, and the people will be guaranteed in the event of a nuclear disaster. The reasoning is that the risk of a nuclear disaster is low, but is that really so unlikely?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u113	If I may, Mrs. Temmerman...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u114	Mr President, I have not actually said anything yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u115	It still happens here sometimes. Mr Friart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u116	Mr President, I wanted to point out that when this Paris Convention is finally ratified, there is certainly an entire insurance market that will be set up in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u117	I haven't said anything about insurance yet, Mr. Fiart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u118	I'm telling you already. You are talking about the state guarantee, but I am telling you that this state guarantee, from the moment the Paris Protocol is put in place, will certainly not play any more. An insurance and reinsurance pool will be set up and will take responsibility not only for Belgian operators but also for all European operators. At that time, there will be no guarantee from the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u119	So I asked if it is so unlikely that there could be a nuclear disaster. In the 1980s, in Chernobyl, and then in Fukushima, it was considered very unlikely that a nuclear disaster would occur. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, they did occur there. However, there is much more. Unfortunately, we did not hear the FANC's flagrant criticism of the shamelessly nonchalant security policy of ENGIE Electrabel at the time of the discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I think we should be really worried about that. I also refer to the countless incidents in our power stations: the technical defects in the pumps and at the heart of the reactors, the fire in the transformers, water leaks or sabotage in the oil reservoirs and so on. All conceivable and unthinkable incidents take place in this country, Mr Friart. In fact, German, Dutch and Luxembourg municipalities have expressed their fear of a possible nuclear incident in one of our nuclear power stations. The border municipalities therefore demand that the power stations close down. Let us hope that there will never be such an incident, but today you are letting the citizen pay for potential damage that the operator should bear. Your selective advantage of a particular energy producer, Madam Secretary, really knows no limits. Gas plants and wind farms can have some dreams of such a regime. Of course, you're not looking at that. Mr Friart, not only Germany imposes an unlimited responsibility on the operators of nuclear power plants, Finland and Sweden also introduced them. It is not possible in this country alone. In fact, we believe that the same operator should not only be unlimitedly responsible and liable, but also that he should be insure of EUR 2.5 billion on the private market. That this is not utopia proves Germany. Mr Friart, if you say that this is not economically feasible, you yourself prove that the exploitation of nuclear energy is not economically feasible, because it is indeed not insurable. If there is a disaster, the costs are not insurable. You said it yourself. You have just said, as a result of my legislative proposal, that this is not economically feasible. I would like to repeat once again that if the nuclear disaster that occurred in Fukushima were to be transferred to Belgium, it would be estimated at 742 billion. That is well above the economic strength of our country. So let us stop investing in this economically unsustainable energy producer and finally switch to alternative energy. Mr Friart, there are a lot of jobs in there too. The real future is there. We do not have the problem of these nuclear disasters, nor do we have the problem of nuclear waste, which we have still not solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u120	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman's proposal for a law does not distinguish between nuclear power producers and other operators, which are much less important on the market. We talked about IRE and SKC-CEN. There is also everything that is nuclear medicine, the transport of all these radioisotopes. With the bill as tabled by Mrs Temmerman, all these activities would also be put at risk. They would be placed in parentheses. That would be serious because we would then affect the health of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u121	You can always table an amendment. I'm definitely willing to look into that. I have also said this in committee, but I have still not received an amendment from you, Mr Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u122	In the draft law as it exists, the distinction is made between large operators, electricity producers and other operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u123	That's right, but you're gonna let the state take the fall for the deposit. Of course, that's the big difference. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to have a resolution on the agenda. I propose that we no longer vote on resolutions. In 2011, we unanimously adopted a resolution aimed at revising the civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy in order to provide for a system of unlimited civil liability borne by the operator of the nuclear installations. This was unanimously approved by all the parties that are present here in 2011. Now you come up with a proposal that will catapult us back in time. Not only do you renounce the resolution you adopted at the time, but you add a number of things, such as environmental damage. Mr Friart, your proposal or the Minister's proposal no longer regards environmental damage as nuclear damage. Electrabel will therefore no longer be responsible for compensating for any damage to our environment. Do you think that's normal, Mr. Friart? I don't think so. Moreover, it is not at all in line with the resolution we all adopted, including Mrs Marghem, in 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u124	This 2011 resolution was not included in the law of 29 June 2014, when you were in the majority, as well as the PS and the cdH, when this law of 29 June 2014 passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u125	Mr Friart, you have not answered the question whether the environmental damage is no longer...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u126	There was someone else who asked to speak, Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will never be the biggest fan of nuclear energy, Mrs Temmerman. As you know, we also have ambitious plans to cut down nuclear power stations as quickly as possible. However, let us get away from the drama. I understand you're in opposition and the duty of the opposition is to raise. However, you know as well as I do that there is no alternative to having security of supply and affordable energy today. It will not be Johan Vande Lanotte's magic cable that will save us in terms of security of supply in winter. The situation today is what she is. The most pro-active and ambitious report written so far to make the transition from nuclear to other energy is that of Elijah. That report is known to you. That report is based on no less than 50% of electricity imports, which is not possible today because we do not have the infrastructure. The other countries are also unable to provide us with this energy today. Today, the situation is what it is. We are dealing with these plants and we must deal with them in the best possible way. As a member of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, you know that we met yesterday, and I am sometimes worried when I read the newspaper this weekend. I think we should take this very seriously. Together with the FANC, we must examine with the Subcommittee whether the safety culture in Tihange is acceptable. If this is not the case, we must draw the necessary conclusions. Today we are discussing a bill of which you are the author. Actually, we're having a somewhat semantic discussion. If we really have to bury the damage of a nuclear incident, let's all hope together that this never happens. We are talking about hundreds of billions. You yourself mentioned EUR 742 billion. Whether we are going to apply the German system, where there is an insurance obligation of EUR 2.5 billion, or EUR 1.2 billion, that will not cover the damage of that nuclear incident anyway. In any event, the German system or the Belgian system shall not be covered by insurance to cover that damage. This will end up with the government. Whatever legal framework one prefers, yours or what is in front of the government, it will make no difference. It is ultimately a damage that is not insurable because the damage is much greater than the amounts involved here. What are we trying to do in a quiet way? In fact, we have come a long way together in the previous legislatures in this area. I refer to initiatives by my colleague Willem-Frederik Schiltz, together with Karine Lalieux and members of the sp.a Group, in the previous legislature. Even then, we extended the definition of nuclear damage. There is, of course, the problem of insurability, which is still under discussion today and for which a little more time is needed. In addition, we have together increased the minimum amounts of recovery payments, a measure which we continue to support. Finally, we have extended the limitation period for physical damage. So we really want to go in the same direction, I think, but you have to admit that the damage is far greater than the insurance ceiling imposed by any country in Europe, including Germany or any other country. In fact, the German system is not so different from ours; there is talk of unlimited liability, but for me the insurability of count. That's what it's really about. In Germany, too, there is no insurance to cover the real damage caused by a nuclear incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u128	Mr Lachaert, I am very pleased with your speech, because you simply confirm my statement that this damage is not insurable. Mr Friart said just now that if the two other countries also adopt such laws, many insurance companies will insure such damage. Then the problem is solved and the state guarantee is no longer required. You're right, because you're saying it's not insurable. We all know that. Such damage is not insurable. As a liberal, you must also dare to say at that time that it is actually economically irresponsible today to go further. The alternative was the core exit, which we decided together a while ago. It was planned. Unfortunately, you and your party have stopped doing so, which means that investment in the alternatives is almost impossible. After all, it is very uncertain what is happening in Belgium: one stop, the other stop. So we will not invest anymore. As a liberal, you know very well that one must only create uncertainty in order to block something. Then, of course, investors are no longer willing to invest. You are also talking about security of supply and interconnection. You are also in favour of a great Europe, aren't you? We need to get there. We all know that. We need to go to this interconnection, we need to make agreements with the countries around us in the future. We can't get out of that. Among other things, through the proposed measure and all the other measures adopted by the government in connection with the core exit, we are always returning. We're not making any progress on the case. I am not talking about the energy transition, which we still have to vote on. Mr President, we are now far beyond the scope of the draft law. It is a very interesting discussion and we should certainly have it with Mrs Marghem. But what you are deciding here today is, of course, a consequence of all the decisions that have been taken. Why do we have to give Electrabel another gift here? Why? You say that we have jointly introduced a nuclear damage regime. You can now screw it back with this design. Electrabel is no longer in charge of compensation. Mr President, I would like to say one more thing and then you will give the floor to my fellow Members. Madam Secretary, we have not yet discussed the physical damage. You say the people who don't have to prove it anymore. That's what the bill says. However, you forget to say that the physical damage that occurs ten years after a nuclear incident is no longer reimbursed. You know very well that certain cancers do not manifest themselves immediately, but only much later. Colleagues, Electrabel is exempted in this area too, and it is once again not liable, even if it can be proved that the cancer was caused by a nuclear incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u129	Mrs Temmerman, first of all, you said that we are turning back on the core step. The exit date hasn't changed. In your version, the last nuclear power plant will close in 2025. In the version of the previous government, the last nuclear power plant will close in 2025 and also in the version of the current government it will close in 2025. So nothing changes in that respect. Secondly, I note that in the previous legislature you did change the exit date for Tihange 1. You did that for the sake of security of supply. That had to happen so the light would stay on. You referred this legislature in committee to the fact that two winters ago we crawled through the eye of the needle in terms of security of supply and that that step is indeed necessary. Thirdly, you say that investments will be reduced and that the transition will not take place. We have had hearings in connection with the discussion of the extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 with, among other things, the Federal Planning Office. This has calculated that there is just as much renewable energy available in the system in the scenario of extending the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2 as in that of not extending the lifespan, for the simple reason that it comes first into the market and its marginal costs are lower than those of nuclear power stations. However, we must take into account the fact that the Netherlands produces more energy in its coal plants, because Belgium needs more energy, according to the report of the Dutch Central Bureau for Statistics of June. In Germany we hear the same story. There is an increase in electricity production in coal plants, because it is cheaper than natural gas plants. I can't deny that. Finally, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the insurance obligation in Germany. We are fortunate, Mrs Lalieux, to be able to testify that we held a lot of hearings on liability and insurance obligations in Germany last legislative term. I hear you say this a number of times, and this is also stated in your amendment, which states that in Germany there is an insurance obligation of up to EUR 2.5 billion. That is not true, however. In the previous legislature, it was very clear how the system works in Germany. There is indeed an insurance obligation of EUR 250 million in classical insurance. Mr Marc Folens explained this in our committee in the previous legislature. What then is the remaining EUR 2,250 billion about? Well, Germany allows the value of nuclear power plants to be guaranteed. In that case, insurance can indeed be taken out. In Germany we are talking about an insurance of EUR 250 million and in our country we were already a lot higher than what is on paper. We must therefore put everything in a clear perspective. We cannot therefore accept your amendments, because the system you are proposing is not even being used in Germany, because it is unrealistic and not possible. We need to think about that. If you like, I can send you the report on the hearings so that you can quietly read how things are going. At least the reality is different from what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u130	Mr President, I can join Mr Wollants. The system in Germany is indeed a layered system and that does not correspond to Mrs Temmerman's presentation. The first layer is a private insurance by the operators, depending on the output of the plant, and there is a limitation in size for that first layer. The second layer is an insurance pool, as Mr Friart has already explained. All plant operators in Germany pool their insurance. This second insurance layer is also subject to a limitation in size. The third layer is the responsibility of the community. Mrs Temmerman blames us if that were also the case here. In fact, I find it hallucinating and downright populist to blame the current minister and government for postponing the core exit. On the other hand, Mrs Temmerman believes that an investment climate must be created long enough in advance, otherwise the core exit cannot be realised. Now, when should this climate of investment have been created? Years ago, right? It is therefore nonsense to place the responsibility for a lack of decisions on this matter with the current government in the last two years. Seven to eight years ago, a plan should have been drawn up so that the market could have adapted. That is why the energy plan with the regions is currently being worked on. Mrs Temmerman, you should not blame the government for delaying the core exit. In the previous governments you have always ruled with it, but at that time you have not managed to make the necessary investments so that there are alternatives now. Today you bring something very populist. You are shooting at nuclear power stations and you have no alternative. Those cables aren't here. There's no interconnectivity. There are no such alternatives. However, you want to close today's nuclear power stations tomorrow. Then I tell you, we can turn off the lights here tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u131	It's too bad Mr. Wollants left. It is quite special to see people, who were for the liberalization of the sector, changing the rules of the game. You support an actor who is quite dominant in Belgium with totally unacceptable gifts. You can always try to show us, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was not necessary. The reduction in the rents you will be voting for in a week is still a gift to a monopolistic actor. Mr. Lachaert, I didn't hear you. You don't listen to Francophones, but it doesn't matter. He's not listening anyway! Mr. Lachaert, I didn't hear you on the fact. It's good to talk about the bill with unlimited insurance issues. But what about the gift this Liberal and right-wing government is making, at some point, to a company that is particularly monopolistic? It's a step backwards, saying, "you don't have to be completely sure," 1.2 billion euros – fortunately we didn't get 1.2 billion euros – "and we're going to give you a guarantee without even having to pay a euro." We're going back in relation to environmental and physical damage. That is the heart of the debate that you did not want to do here. You are talking about the energy transition that we do not have and that we will obviously not have with this government, not to mention this reversal in relation to a totally liberalized market that is within your framework of ideological thinking. That's not what you're talking about. It's too easy to drown the debate as you do. I believe that the debate has taken place in committee and that we must no longer continue to debate. I didn't hear you because, of course, it bothers you. And Mr. Wollants left because it also bothers him. A state guarantee that is not financed by a multi-millionaire, billionaire actor and that makes money on the backs of consumers, it is nevertheless special!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u132	Mr President, I have been patient in the debate on this dossier, which has been analysed at length in committee and whose resurgences are being reviewed here. I would like to say to Mr Friart that he has a somewhat special way of rewriting history in relation to an amendment that was tabled during the vote on the 2015 programme law. It wasn't a bill, Mr. Friart. It was an amendment that had to be made within the framework of a programme law. Between December 2015 and November 2016, it still passed eleven months without being able to move things forward. The result of this is that the government has come to ask this Parliament for urgency with regard to this draft, that it was imperative to vote before 31 December. It is the typical character of good governance that is now before us! Mr Friart, you must arrive in this way because no diplomatic action has been taken between November 2015 and now to try to put this famous Paris Convention on the move. To go back to the content of the case, when we see the technique of unlimited liability, it clearly demonstrates that the bill enshrines the fact that the nuclear sector is, in the end, not or little insurable. I find that it is not acceptable for any industry sector to be in a position to ensure against the risks it poses to the community. Admit it's special, though. In this case, there is also the problem of State aid. It has been mentioned several times and I think the Council of State is very clear on this. Why not have a formal procedure at European Union level? The Minister of Finance has only initiated an informal procedure. It can be considered that the opinion of the Council of State leaves little doubt on this issue and the risk of state aid will come back to us as a boomerang in this situation. Following yesterday's meeting of the nuclear subcommittee, I am not reassured of what is actually happening in the framework of the nuclear gendarmerie and its weakness vis-à-vis the operator. I hope that this issue of nuclear coercion and monitoring will be increasingly prevalent in our debates, in order to avoid the occurrence of drama and the need to operate large amounts of insurance at the state level. In conclusion, the amount is 1.2 billion without calling on Electrabel's mother house, since it is Electrabel who insures and not Engie. However, when it comes to asking Engie to validate the extension of Doel 1, Doel 2 and to establish the amounts to be paid to nuclear operators and operators, gloves are not put on. The operator and operator signs and co-signs the bills and related agreements himself. Admit that there is double standards with this particular operation. We also discussed the issue of environmental damage and personal injury. They were obviously withdrawn. We will not go back to that for the time being, but know that this is a problem that concerns us all and that we will come back to some day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u133	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte was only talking about the amendment. But before the amendment, which was refused, to the program law, there was the bill. I explained it. It's one thing. On the other hand, at the level of the guarantee, but I see that Mrs Lalieux has left, it is quite clear that the State will be asking for compensation for the guarantee it will provide to the nuclear operators. That has been said. That's normal. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u134	We know that: if something is asked about Electrabel, we know how that happens. Mr Lachaert, you blame me for populism. I do not agree with that at all. If there are issues that I or my party support, I will defend them, even if they come from the majority. It's not like I'm saying those things because I'm in the opposition now; it's things I'm convinced of. The next thing is very strange. There is a statement by the Council of State in which it states clearly that this draft could potentially involve State aid. You are convinced that this is not the case, but why not ask the European Commission directly? Why should this happen indirectly, should we not receive the letter, should we not receive the application and not even the matter for the European Commission? If you are so convinced that this is not state aid, do you have to support the amendment? The amendment states that it can only be introduced when the European Commission gives the green light. This can't be a problem, can it? Surely you have to explain to me how, as a liberal, Mr Lachaert, you can declare that one producer does not benefit from one producer only once, but over and over again, as Mrs Lalieux says. The offshore also has a major insurance problem. Not as big as the nuclear sector, but also very large. In fact, a number of investments do not happen there because the insurance problem is so great. How can you, as a liberal, continue to defend that one sector is always favoured again, so that the Council of State warns that this is a form of state aid? However, you say that you will not ask the European Commission, you will continue to do so, and you will also support this project. If I may finish my reasoning, Mr President, then my speech has been made and my fellow Members can take the floor. At a time when more and more voices are being voiced to bring the system of civil nuclear liability into line with common law, this government is returning for a number of years. Countries such as Germany, Sweden and Finland take the lead. They started it. You allow families to continue to suffer from a nuclear disaster, but you remain consistent: you always call on the same people. They'll have to pay if it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u135	We can, of course, continue to prolong the debate. We are also different from the current draft law, but I am surprised when I hear your discourse, Mrs Temmerman. It would be thought that the sp.a had never been in the government and never extended a reactor in Tihange, together with Mr Wathelet and Mr Di Rupo. If we look at the convention afterwards, we have many problems in calculating the nuclear contribution. So none of that happened? You're virgin again and every nuclear power station should be shut down now? I think that's a sign of frivolity. That's not right at all. You have to be a little consistent somewhere. This government is doing the same as the last one. Since security of supply is not guaranteed and the FANC says that it can continue to operate, the extension has been approved here. Do we have to keep doing that forever? No, we have to come up with a plan to finally get rid of it. Our party will be your ally in that. We must work together to find solutions. You won't be able to blame us. Bart Tommelein, at the Flemish level, works very ambitiously to take all the necessary steps from the Flanders region to ensure that we make it by 2025. Maybe ten years ago we should have done it that way together. Stop playing each other and let's just work together on the alternatives that have to be there in a few years. There is little point in telling people vesicles about nuclear power plants. We cannot just shut down nuclear power stations and guarantee security of supply. As far as possible state aid is concerned, I understand that there will be a notification anyway. This majority is fearlessly opposed to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u136	Mr Lachaert, I would like to remind you that together we decided to close Objective 1 and Objective 2. At the time that closure was ordered, Elijah produced a report stating that there was no security of supply problem at all, but there was no problem at all. You're gonna have to reread that report. Moreover, if you take into account all the problems of power stations and their age, and the fact that the FANC report now states that there are major safety problems, I find this draft really irresponsible. It is true that together we decided to close one plant later, but under two conditions: that the other two plants would definitely be closed down and that the phrase............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But you forgot to tell me. We are very consistent in our attitude. We are very consistent. Once again, I am surprised by the Liberal colleague, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking... I do not think you ever speak to alternative energy producers? I do. They say that we are no longer investing today, because the political climate for keeping nuclear power stations open is far too uncertain. Mr Lachaert, that is true. All studies show that, too. As a consequence, your party agreed that Objective 1 and Objective 2 would be definitively closed. Finally, that is what we all said at the time. With this government, however, you have decided to keep them open. As a consequence, that can count.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u137	Mr. De Lamotte, is that enough for you? Is everyone served, like they used to say on the tram? No one else? Then I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u138	Mr President, indeed everyone was served except the government. I will try to be as synthetic as possible in order to avoid prolonging the debates, knowing that we have already discussed these issues widely in committee. The Government's view, expressed repeatedly, is to provide security of supply, and that cannot be done without the country's nuclear power plants. Studies – GEMIX 1 and GEMIX 2 – have been planning this for a long time. They also provide for the extension of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 while the previous government preferred the extension of Tihange 1 only. This extension is due to what could be described as the half-time of the road to the exit of nuclear power as provided for by the 2003 law, when it was anticipated that things would have been sufficiently organized for Doel 1 and Doel 2 to be closed at the age of 40. But, as Mr. Lachaert pointed out, from the moment we did not work on the energy transition from the time when we voted in 2003 for the release of nuclear power in 2025, all that time was lost to work on this energy transition. Even today, even with Doel 1 and Doel 2, we have a very tense supply security. You've seen him lately on the last weekend where the cold has stagnated a little for a few days on Western Europe. Knowing that in addition, we have a special situation with the closure of five French nuclear power plants in addition to what is usually planned. Because of this, we cannot benefit from full interconnection. It's nice to have a physical interconnection and enjoy physical capacities at borders up to 4,000/4 500 megawatts, but if no electricity passes through these interconnections, we need to think about a minimum of energy independence. From the moment these units are operational, they have to be assured like all units of any kind, and Mrs Temmerman has reminded us that even offshore wind turbine operators – offshore wind turbines are in the jurisdiction of the federal government – have assurances for the machines they place and which produce, when the wind is at the rendezvous, the megawatts we need. It was precisely this wind that was not on the rendezvous during the last weekend that made our security of supply unsecured since wind power is intermittent. It's one of his characteristics. In the spirit of the 2014 legislator, that we were all, the text was to enter into force only on the day when all the parties to the Paris Convention – made up of European States and non-European States –, in any case those that are part of the European Union, would have ratified the international instruments of the Paris Convention and the 2004 Protocol. In order for there to be an insurance market that is able to take into account the insurable increases provided for in international instruments and provided for by countries – some countries are above, including Belgium, as provided for in these international instruments – Europe has indicated that a sufficiently deep and broad market in Europe is needed for these insurances to be covered by insurance companies that re-insurance with each other. This simultaneity is therefore required. But it is also requested in order to avoid distortions of competition between countries, depending on the entry into force, differentiated over time, chronologically different in each country, if each progressed at its own pace. Today, there are two countries that have to ratify. Britain must do so apparently in early 2017. Italy is still nowhere and does not show any particular sign of progress on this issue. That is where the fundamental problem lies, which had not necessarily been assessed, with sufficient knowledge of the future that we could have at the time. Indeed, in 2013, when we assessed this legislation that, on the basis of a proposed law, you voted here in Parliament on 29 June 2014, we thought that these two countries would be in a position to ratify so that the law of 29 June 2014 would come into force on the first day of the 18th month following its publication in the Belgian Moniteur. Unfortunately, it was still too short. That is why, by an article to the law on various provisions, this government wanted, at the end of 2015, to postpone the entry into force of the text of the law of 29 June 2014 in two lines to be in the conditions of simultaneousity required by Europe. Since, in the Conference of Presidents, this law was somewhat boned by either side, because an agreement had been reached between the majority and the opposition to pass only the texts on which the two parliamentary groups - the majority and the opposition - would agree at the end of 2015, I had the audacity to take up this simple text of postponement of the entry into force, to make it an amendment to the programme law. I found quite easily the justifications since the state guarantee (second subject) implemented in the law of 29 June 2014 - concrete and objective element that we voted and you know very well - is not conceived without remuneration from the operators to the state that provides this guarantee. It is made necessary by the fact that the insurance market cannot offer sufficiently broad and deep coverage, in particular because of the lack of ratification of certain European countries which do not create the valid insurance scale. The State must therefore provide this guarantee so that the nuclear operators of that country have the possibility, on the one hand, by the normal means of insurance and, on the other, by paying the State, that is, without any cost to the consumer, subject to this guarantee, to respond in the event of a disaster to the extent required by the international instruments duly implemented in our legislation. The mechanism before us is very simple. There is therefore no cost to the consumer, since the Minister of Finance, when developing this guarantee, will provide for the payment of a premium to be paid by the operators in order to be able to benefit from it to the extent that it is necessary for the entire insurance scheme. Secondly, it was the obvious financial justification that I had developed by saying that this law had financial implications for the state budget. It is part of a comprehensive system to which will be added another law providing for a State guarantee for remuneration to supplement the insurance scheme and, since this has a budgetary impact, it is possible to attach this amendment to the programme law. So, here's the whole story. It's one thing. Of course, it is not so easy to establish a regime that takes into account the entry into force, in January 2016, of a text that should not have entered into force with the problematic technical consequences that I have just outlined, and nevertheless to ensure that there is a legal continuity allowing the entire regime to finally find its harmony when this remunerated guarantee is developed. So that's not a step backwards. It is simply a situation that takes into account the premature entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014 and the fact that nothing could be done and the postponement of the entry into force could be voted on. And there, we were in a situation of non-progress, or even backwards as you understand it, because we would not have allowed a law that has been passed, which gives additional guarantees to the victims, to come into force. It would have been recognized by this postponement of entry into force that international conditions had not yet been met. We have not done so and, finally, we must be able to take advantage of what is being done and draw the right conclusions from it. This is what we are doing through this law, which can be called "reparation law" or "intermediate law", which allows the regime to exist, not to be in contradiction with the lack of ratification of all European states and therefore to create distortions which could actually be described as state aid, i.e. aid which does not comply with the rules of European competition. But it's not! This is not the case since we provide for a paid guarantee, a guarantee for remuneration. These particular operators are, like all other operators of gas plants, offshore wind turbines, any energy production unit, subject to insurance for the risks they cause by the units they operate. It is possible to discuss, as far as possible, the unlimited nature of this insurance. The Belgian regime has always been to provide for limited liability. It is nothing original; it is simply the translation of a pre-existing regime into the Paris Convention and the 2004 Protocol. Other countries have made other choices, but in reality this too is a semantic discussion. Because unlimited liability is the liability of the operator to the end of its assets, i.e. the bankruptcy of its assets to cover liability, beyond what is required in terms of insurance, even in Germany, of the operators in question. It all depends on what we want to do. We can agree with everything, but we must have a concrete and practical mind. From the moment you choose unlimited liability, for damages that infinitely exceed the amounts of liability in Belgium and Germany, compared to damage that would occur due to nuclear energy, it simply means that your regime is based on the idea that companies should, if necessary, disappear. I reassure you from the outset: probably because of the incident itself, it would disappear ex officio. This reasoning therefore does not have much meaning, except to give a purely semantic signal without any concrete impact. Consider Fukushima. I do not know the particular insurance scheme imagined in Japan. But it is clear that the scale of the disaster, which has rightly moved the whole world and prompted us to take more severe measures in the area of stress testing, including in the field of safety, has demonstrated that all States are responsible to their citizens for the damage caused to the environment by units producing such damage on their territory. It is therefore the continuity of the State. A State is nothing more than a sum of individuals, of legal personalities producing income, with continuity over time, which far exceeds the continuity of enterprises, and with financial forces, which also exceed the financial forces of enterprises. It is therefore ultimately the State which is, in any case, responsible for this. I believe that the Belgian State feels responsible for this situation, since it analyses the problem before us with the utmost seriousness and provides for the instruments. As of December 31 of this year, we asked the Minister of Finance to provide and establish this guarantee for compensation. We have requested that it provide the necessary instruments to complete the increased insurance scheme, not only in the amounts, but also in the quality and nature of the damage thus insured. The Belgian State, like all other states, including the German State, is responsible for more than 2,500 billion. The German State is responsible for more than this amount. And if nuclear damage arrives in Germany and the financial impact of it exceeds that amount and the German State, which is responsible for the victims, decides to provide compensation for the damage, it can do so, and I suppose it will do so, beyond what is provided by law. It's obvious. All of this, therefore, is, as Mr Lachaert has said, a semantic debate which does not want to recognise that we are moving increasingly, as time goes on, towards an increasing recognition of compensation for damage. We are moving towards increasing requirements for operators to ensure the risks associated with the operation of their industry. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this text. We will return, the Minister of Finance and myself, with the file that will relate to the paid guarantee that will complete this system. Why did we ask to vote on this text before 31 December 2016? Because this is the deadline that all the ministers involved in this matter have received for the whole regime to be complete. This deadline applies not only to the Minister of Economic Affairs and myself, who are presenting this matter to you, but also to the Minister of Finance, who must establish this guarantee. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is also concerned because he is taking the necessary steps to make Italy aware of the decision, first of all, to sort between its so-called nuclear infrastructures, knowing that the situation in Italy is simple because they do not have a nuclear power production unit. It would therefore be very easy for them to ratify these international instruments quickly, in order to ensure that the whole market opens up to nuclear operators and allows the market to bear premiums that would probably be less important than the guarantee that the Belgian State is going to demand from operators in that country. Insurers in the market will then be able to take full responsibility for the risk, as required by Belgian law and, with other requirements, the laws of other European countries that are parties to this convention and that we can continue to make progress. I imagine that, in future years, we will be increasingly demanding with the damage that these units can cause and that we will further refine their insurance regime. But we must remain reasonable and ensure that these insurances can be financed by farmers so that they can continue to operate their infrastructure properly for the benefit of the population in terms of security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u139	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u140	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2085/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2085/5) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u141	• 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 2 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 3 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 4 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 5 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 6 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 7 • 2 • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) Article 8 (n) • Karin Temmerman cs (2085/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u142	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u143	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u144	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1973: Nele Lijnen, Tim Vandenput, Peter Luykx, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Els Van Hoof - 602: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt - 1118: Dirk Van der Maelen, Fatma Pehlivan, Gwenaëlle Grovonius - 1354: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart, Ahmed Laaouej - 1853: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Georges Dallemagne, Dirk Van der Maelen, Fatma Pehlivan. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these proposals. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u145	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1973/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1973/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Les rapporteurs sont Mme Grovonius, Mr Luykx, Mrs Bellens and Mrs Pehlivan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u146	Mr President, the rapporteurs refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution was originally drawn up in response to the French Foreign Minister Fabius' proposal to revive the Middle East peace process by organising an international conference on the subject. We wanted to make it clear through a resolution that the Belgian Parliament supported the initiative. We also wanted to encourage the federal government and enlargement of the European Union to fully support this new drive in the peace process. However, we have gradually expanded our focus within the resolution. Several motions for resolutions on Israel and Palestine were already on the table. We saw this as an opportunity to reach a single broadly supported resolution in the Committee on External Relations. Instead of always making resolutions on sub-problems, we wanted to come up with a resolution which gives a more global view of the conflict and discusses all the issues together. We are therefore very pleased that the opposition has actually given us the opportunity to sit together on this issue on a broad basis, in order to arrive at a broad-based text. Ladies and gentlemen, although this is not the fastest way of working, we have shown that we can work together across the boundaries of opposition and majority. It was also encouraging to see that there was unanimity on many matters on the subject on the road to a solution. In committee, too, we were able to discuss constructively matters which were not included in the resolution. For example, additional requests were added on the Belgian differentiation policy. The immediate freezing of Israeli settlement policy is now explicitly requested. There is also a direct call to Fatah and Hamas, to sit together around the table. However, the most important change to the resolution is that we call on the federal government to take diplomatic initiatives from now on, to demand compensation from Israel for the destruction of Belgian development projects in the Palestinian territories. Colleagues, that is one of the important things that we ask and demand in the resolution, together with other EU Member States involved, if possible, but only bilaterally, if necessary. The final result that lies ahead may therefore be seen. In concrete terms, we ask the federal government to do the following. We call on both sides to stop all actions leading to a further escalation of the conflict and to stand in the way of a two-state solution. In concrete terms, this leads to the following demands: a condemnation of Israel's settlement policy and the demand for its immediate freezing; the call for the lifting of the Gaza blockade by Israel and Egypt; a condemnation of Palestinian missile attacks and the construction of tunnels; and the EU's support for the French initiative to relaunch the peace process by organising an international conference on this subject. At the moment, however, it does not appear that this conference will come soon, but in this way we show that we want to bring vitality back into the peace process. The total lack of negotiation between parties does more harm than good. We also call for further development of the EU's differentiation policy, which prevents Israeli companies in Palestinian colonies from benefiting from bilateral agreements between the EU and Israel. We are also asking for a condemnation of the Israeli destruction of Belgian development projects and we are asking for diplomatic initiatives from now on to demand compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have noticed that I have raised some points twice in order to emphasise the importance of the subject. I believe that in this resolution we have taken maximum account of the concerns of the opposition. I therefore hope that we will be able to approve them unanimously. After all, a wide-ranging resolution sends out a much stronger signal, both to our own government and abroad. That is what we are trying to achieve with our resolutions: that they have maximum impact in practice. I would also like to thank Mr Wouter De Vriendt for his incredibly perseverance in reaching an agreement on this resolution. I believe that the two amendments tabled by Mr De Vriendt and Mr Hellings, who were unanimously signed by the other Members of this House, also send an important signal. It is very important for us to specify their reasons, but Mr De Vriendt will perhaps come back to it himself later that differentiation policy should not lead to the punishment of companies and entities which are not involved in the development and maintenance of settlements and which do not engage in business activities there. I think it is important to reiterate this point in my explanatory statement today. I welcome the outstretched hand and I very much hope that all my fellow Members will vote in favour of this resolution in the near future. I would also like to thank the services and all those who have been actively involved in this. It is a resolution that we have worked on for a very long time. It was a process of moving insight. The result may be there. I believe that we are sending a very strong signal to the outside world. I hope it will come, but above all that there will be a change in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work we have been doing has led us to try to answer important questions. Thus, how can Belgium, on its scale, relaunch a peace process in the Middle East? How should Belgium position itself vis-à-vis Israel, but also with regard to the Palestinian Authority, taking into account a historical context and acts of provocation which unfortunately continue to multiply? How can we find a peaceful solution based on the coexistence of two democratic and independent States that each have the right to live in peace and security with borders that are mutually recognized, accepted and respected? These are some of the innumerable essential questions that our Committee on External Relations has tried to answer. It is true that it was necessary to be patient before the debate was opened and above all to be concluded, even if, in my opinion, it is not closed. In fact, at the beginning, the majority was a bit flimsy not wanting to talk too much about the subject, especially since Mr. Reynders had to carry out a mission to Israel and Palestine and this could complicate his mission. We may regret that our parliamentary agenda depends, in a way, on the good will of the government, but the important thing is that the majority has finally tabled a draft resolution on the Middle East peace process. I really want to welcome this approach and the openness to the opposition in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u149	Mr President, I am not going to criticise what Mrs Grovonius has just said because, for once, she is complimenting work between the majority and the opposition. On the other hand, history has its truths. I don't like it when we go back to events. In other words, the majority has never been sluggish about this subject. We simply asked to wait for Minister Reynders to travel there so that he could give us more news so that we could have a resolution that was far more grounded than we could have had before his trip. So the truth has its rights, Mrs. Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u150	Your truth probably has its rights. You will allow me to have another interpretation of the facts. Anyway, we are not going to argue forever on this point. We can move forward. I wanted to pay tribute to the work and tenacity of my opposition colleagues. Without all the initiatives that have been taken and the texts that have been tabled, the text we are discussing today would never have come to light. If the various motions for resolutions which we have tabled had not been tabled, whether this is the text of my group which I have written on administrative detentions and on Palestinian prisoners, whether this is the text of my colleagues in Ecolo-Groen on the destruction of projects financed by development cooperation and the compensation for these destroyed projects, be it the text of my colleague from the Sp.a., my chairman of the Committee on External Relations, Mr. Van der Maelen, on the reconstruction of Gaza, had not all these texts been written and tabled, we would not have to discuss this resolution today. The mission of the section of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Belgium-Palestine, which I chaired this year, led us back from this mission, together with all my colleagues who represent a wide range of parties represented in Parliament, to plead for Belgium's support for the French initiative. It is also important to recall the work carried out within the framework of this mission of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. It was also an important milestone in the drafting of the text discussed today. I welcome the work done, even though the texts of the opposition were finally rejected in committee. I am convinced that they have enabled the majority to write this resolution. Not quite the one on our benches today. Indeed, the first martyred text, open to discussion, was a little more timid. But, thanks to our work of openness and constructive opposition, a number of essential amendments have been tabled to strengthen the original text of the majority. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues from the majority who drafted this resolution for really taking the time to seriously study the amendments tabled. Several of them have been adopted in committee and are an integral part of the text we are talking about this evening. The work done together allows our committee to reconnect with a long tradition of consultation between the majority and the opposition, a tradition that had not been cultivated for several months. This resolution had an important role to play in guiding our country's diplomatic and development efforts in the region, at a time when Israel could legalize its settlements in the West Bank and when we must recognize that the peace process is inexorably sinking into a cul-de-sac. We cannot give up or diminish our diplomatic efforts and act as if nothing were or try to give us a good conscience by making press releases or resolutions. The time has come to act in order to achieve now, and not at a hypothetical opportune moment, a lasting solution to peace. A lasting solution that must end the human suffering of generations of Palestinian and Israeli civilians who have never finally experienced peace and security in this endless region. The conflict in the Middle East has been undermining international relations, the stability of this neighbouring region of Europe and, above all, the lives of the people living there for more than half a century. Too much blood has already sunk in this conflict! As you know, this situation is a global source of undeniable radicalization that can have global consequences. In the face of this ongoing conflict, Belgium has always been a supporter of an approach that respects international law aimed at recognizing the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people through, inter alia, the end of the occupation of the occupied Palestinian territories and the right to security of the State of Israel and its inhabitants. To call on all parties to respect the rule of law is certainly not a provocation and to criticize certain Israeli policies is neither to be against that State nor to recognize its right to security. It is simply a requirement of this rule of law, a member of the United Nations, that it respect international law because no rule of law is above any international law. Therefore, as was the case with the "protective border" operation, how could we not condemn the disproportionate use of force, strongly denounced by the United Nations itself? How could we close our eyes to the deaths of so many civilians? How can we ignore all the repeated attacks on the peace process as recently as Israel seeks to legalize its settlements? My group has repeatedly reiterated that only the urgent and effective resumption of negotiations with a view to reaching a solution based on the coexistence of two States with the independent, democratic, contiguous, sovereign and viable State of Palestine and the State of Israel living side by side in peace and security can be a long-term solution. Let us now look at the text of the majority. I must admit that between our debate here on the recognition that my group would have wanted immediately from Palestine, already in 2015, and this text, you have come a long way. The adoption, as I said, of several socialist amendments and other opposition groups has made it possible to substantially strengthen a basic text which may be inadequate. I would like to mention, in particular, the addition of recital h, which reminds us that our country does not recognise any change in the delineation of the pre-1967 borders. The addition of recital i also indicates that Israeli colonization is illegal under international law. I would also like to refer to point 4, which now refers to the deepening of the policy of differentiation between Israeli settlements and Israel. This point will also be reinforced by the amendment tabled today by my colleague De Vriendt, which I have co-signed. I would also like to refer to points 5 and 6 which refer to the need to implement the guidelines of the interpretative communication of the European Union, but also to the recommendation of the SPF Economy, as my group has been asking for for many months. Point 8 calls for an immediate halt to colonization, equivalent to a freeze that is necessary for us, if we still wish to safeguard the last chance of the two-state solution being realized one day. Point 12 refers to the constantly postponed elections, which are more necessary than ever to restore legitimacy to the Palestinian Authority and its leaders. Item 15 calls for the lifting of the blockade of Gaza. Finally, point 17 allows for the inclusion of the full paragraph on administrative detentions, a point that is of particular interest to me, given my motion for a resolution on the subject. The clarifications made will certainly help to guide our diplomacy when the subject of detention is discussed with the Israeli authorities. We also recall the importance of guaranteeing the right of Palestinians to a fair trial, which I believe is fundamental. Despite all these advances, which I welcome, the problem is that the situation in this region requires strong commitments for peace. The situation has been getting worse and worse for many years. The regional geopolitical context is, to say the least, explosive. And I'm not even talking about the election of the new American president, who is not likely to pacify the situation. We really need to show even more courage. Perhaps I regret that the opportune time has not yet come, allowing us to better understand why this contradiction appears in point 4 on differentiation policy. Indeed, in my group's view, we cannot on the one hand ask for this policy of differentiation to be deepened and, at the same time, ask that it not cause any decline in investment in Israel for entities whose activities are all or part of the occupied Palestinian territories. You have refused my group's amendment abolishing the end of this request. It was not at all a question of questioning the trade relations with the Hebrew State within its borders recognized by our country. But these relations must be carried out in accordance with international law and the Belgian and European directives which exist, but which, unfortunately, are not applied in practice by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u151	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, I share the substance of your thoughts on maintaining the end of the sentence. We voted in favour of your amendment. You and I know our positions on this. That is not what we want to propose. But what is at stake in a resolution like this, which has been worked out on many occasions, including at the last moment with the amendment of which Mr. De Vriendt took the initiative and that you will vote like most of the colleagues here, is to appear, opposition and majority, united against Israel. It is true that the amendment that you have proposed to remove the word "boycott" with regard to Israel, which bothers me, has been amended with the addition of a point 5 and a point 6, which, I would remind you, aim to fully implement the European instructions of 9 July 2013 on labelling, including a clear territorial limit in all bilateral agreements with Israel in the future. The amendment by Mr. De Vriendt makes it very clear that trade between Israel and the European Union, and therefore Belgium, can only concern products manufactured within the recognized international borders of 1967. It's clear and clear. Finally, point 6, which has been added by the majority, on the initiative of several colleagues from the majority and the opposition, including you and us, provides for the full implementation of the SPF Economie's labelling recommendation. I agree with you that this is not the ideal text, as we have tabled at other times in this Parliament. Nevertheless, progress is significant enough, including last minute additions. I believe that this justifies our voting on this motion for a resolution, in the name of the good work done together and the pressure we can therefore put on Israel. I hope that we can constructively convince you to change your point of view. I'm sensitive to your argument. We share it. Nevertheless, I believe that voting to improve our country's balance of power towards Israel would improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u152	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Hellings. We share the same view on this matter. I was going to conclude by saying that the amendment tabled today by Mr. De Vriendt considerably improves the non-compliance in this paragraph. Nevertheless, there are still elements which, for me, are not present, in particular the fact that, at this stage, there is still a refusal to consider the implementation in Belgium of a compulsory labelling mechanism for products originating from the colonies, an effective control mechanism and possible sanctions. In the paragraph we are discussing, of course, there is the question of boycott, but the question of sanctions is also there, and it raises questions. I am not saying that it must be done, but it cannot be closed down if a mandatory mechanism with labelling controls is put in place. Unfortunately, the fact that this possibility is automatically excluded does not strengthen our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u153	Mr President, it is to make the debates dynamic and I am not going to contradict Mrs Grovonius. If tomorrow there is a majority in this Parliament to decide that the products from the Israeli settlements can no longer be imported or sold in Belgium, the amendment that Mr. De Vriendt proposed, and which you co-signed, allows this possible majority to pass a law that eventually prohibits products manufactured and produced by Israeli settlements. I also believe that, in the long run, we must be able to think about sanctions and other sanctions against Israel. But if tomorrow we want to pass a law that prohibits the sale of products from Israeli settlements outside the 1967 borders, we can vote on it here. And I will vote with enthusiasm, probably with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u154	Yeah, most probably with me. I would already have liked to have been able to vote for this kind of item tomorrow in the text before us. Another point that remains problematic for my group and myself: point 10. Its formulation is, to say the least, convoluted. Again, the real strength of such a formulation is very weak. I'll read that. He said that we must start now, in consultation with the European countries concerned and, where appropriate, bilaterally, diplomatic initiatives to encourage the Israeli Government to accept the principle of compensation for the destruction of development projects financed in whole or in part by Belgian development cooperation. I am sorry, but in short, it gives a little impression that Israel is destroying projects financed legally by our Belgian development cooperation, and that we are just asking them to accept the principle of compensation. I feel a little bit like it's not diplomacy anymore, it's almost self-denial.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u155	Mr President, I would like to refer to the report. Everyone has read it, so has Mrs Grovonius. The report is very important with regard to point 10. You were not in the committee when we voted on it, Mrs Grovonius, and I will explain two points to you. It is possible, Mr Flahaux, that fellow Members of this House are not present. Firstly, it is important that we have asked the representative of the cabinet which countries specifically would like to join in a consultation with Israel, especially in order to show that this cannot be done. Secondly, it has been made clear by Mr van Groen that we are not under any illusions of ever seeing the money again. What is particularly important to us is that the countries that want to follow, with Belgium in the lead, clearly underline that what has happened cannot and that we assume that it will not happen again. As a signal, point 10 of the resolution can count. What we were particularly afraid of was that we would go around again in Europe to get all the noses in the same direction. It turned out that this could not be done within Europe. A number of countries have clearly indicated that they would take a step further. This was clearly emphasised by the representative of the cabinet. If we take paragraph 10 of this resolution together with the piece of the report, we will give a very clear signal, not only to Israel, but also to Europe and to the whole world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u156	Mrs Grovonius, it is true that you were on mission during the last discussion, and that is a shame. We will therefore explain to you how we have achieved this compromise. Point 10 is a compromise accepted by the majority as a result of our two resolutions to Mr. De Vriendt and I...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u157	Two amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u158	Of the two resolutions on compensation requested for cooperation projects destroyed by the IDF in the occupied area. Of course, you can consider it a little soft. That's your point of view. But it was that or had nothing at all. Secondly, there is an important step forward that has been accepted by the parties of the majority. It refers to the words "if any". To date, Minister Reynders, his representative and no party of the majority had accepted or envisaged unilaterally requested compensation. You will find the debate in the parliamentary proceedings, as Mrs Lijnen has indicated. The expression "if any" clearly refers to the initiative taken by the Foreign Minister, once it has been found that European actions have not been successful, by unilaterally asking Israel for compensation. Point 10 has been drafted on the basis of what the minister's representative has explained to us, namely that, as you know, the Israeli position is completely contrary to this point of view and is not even ready to consider going in that direction. The minister's representative said for the first time: "We are not going to fall behind the position of a European initiative. The majority agreed to ask for a unilateral initiative after this process, to speak to Israel in a clear way and to encourage it to accept the principle of compensation." So, in all friendship, it's not a smoke or an attempt to have you without warning. This is really the result of democratic work, of a political discussion, where we have reached this compromise – a compromise which, for me, is quite honourable, since we are moving towards a position allowing Belgium to tell Israel about these politically unacceptable destructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u159	Mr President, I would like to emphasise once again what I said earlier in my speech and what I said in committee. This seems important to me for the report. Mrs Grovonius, you are quite right to point 10 of the resolution. However, let us be quite clear that this is an explicit condemnation of the Israeli destruction of Belgian development projects. This point has been made because we have had a discussion with the government's representative, who has made it quite clear that we want to make progress with the countries that are benevolent. Those countries that do not want to join us and who have delayed the process so far, we are leaving behind. We are taking a step forward. Internationally, the signal is stronger if we send this message to the world with multiple parties. In addition, in order to meet the aspirations of the opposition, to which we have listened very carefully and for which I also understand, we have added that it can also be bilaterally, if necessary. I believe that this responds to the concerns that you have quite rightly expressed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u160	Mr President, I should like to apologize for my absence in committee. I was on a mission abroad. I assure you, I have read the report since I am even one of the co-authors and I have also been informed of the discussions that have taken place in committee. I know that this paragraph is the subject of a compromise. I think I myself have highlighted all the progress and all the important elements on which I never thought the majority would accept our amendments or the demands made. Mr Hellings, Mrs Lijnen, you will not prevent me from dreaming and asking for more. I hear it's a compromise. You have agreed something with a representative of the firm to try to have an acceptable proposal, including at the government level. I'm a parliamentarian. I'm in parliament. It is true that, in relation to this element, there is a paragraph in which, at some point, there would be a request to the government to simply receive compensation, which would seem to me to be more successful than the ambiguous formula in the text today, even if I acknowledge that this is a good step forward in relation to some of the positions taken earlier. I will not go back to the text on destruction. However, I would like to stress the issue of compensation because this paragraph does not mention a precise timing. We don't set a deadline. If we now follow an approach that accepts that bilateral discussions should be held at some point in time, but we do not know how long. Even if this had been discussed in committee, it would have been interesting for this to be included in the text. Indeed, this would have been an additional commitment in a text that would perhaps be voted on by all parliamentarians. In any event, this text is important to the extent that these destructions are intolerable. And when one hears the Israeli ambassador speak of a "unaccepted" when projects such as those in question are destroyed, the answer given must be equal to the provocations suffered so far. It is therefore very important that bilateral discussions on this issue can take place. But it lacks "the little soul supplement" for this text to be acceptable to my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u161	I hear your argument, Mrs Grovonius, about the lack of timing, but there is progress. The majority agreed that Belgium was moving unilaterally towards Israel. Mrs Lijnen is right: in the discussion in our work, which the Israeli embassy will be able to read, the European countries which were blocked in the European process have been clarified. We have discussed and unanimity has emerged from the work of this committee, unfortunately without you working abroad at the time. This unanimity demonstrated that we have identified the European countries that are holding back, but also those that are ready to go in the same direction. So there is a profound paradigm shift. That is why Mr. De Vriendt and I will vote enthusiastically on this resolution and this paragraph. We agreed, however, that, together with other progressive countries on these matters, Belgian diplomatic initiatives, and thus unilateral, possibly with friendly countries, would be taken to put Israel before its contradictions, its financial responsibility for Belgian projects financed in Zone C.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u162	I do not necessarily read the elements of this text in the same way, but we do not have to agree. Another point I wanted to highlight is point 15. I regret that item 15 does not refer to the illegality of the blockade of Gaza. This would have really added weight to our request to have this blockade lifted at some point. Secondly, there are two issues on which this text is also silent and which are nevertheless essential. The first of these points will not surprise you, of course, the formal and immediate recognition of the State of Palestine, alongside the State of Israel, by Belgium. I regret that Belgium has chosen not to follow the Swedish example. However, such recognition would have been a very concrete contribution by Belgium to the solution based on the coexistence of two democratic and independent States, which have the right to live in peace and security, with mutually recognized, accepted and respected borders. The second point I would have liked to find in this text is the support that our country could have given to the families of prisoners held administratively for the exercise of functions exclusively related to projects developed and financed by our bilateral cooperation for indirect, direct or multilateral development. It's for these reasons that...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u163	Mrs Grovonius, I have not understood your second point, but if you table an amendment, we are prepared to analyse it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u164	It has already been tabled and discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u165	I didn't understand it, but it doesn't matter. As regards your first point, the recognition of the Palestinian State, we had a long discussion with as few people as we are today in the Chamber a year and a half ago. I would like to point out to you that, although I am a fervent supporter of the immediate – and not timely – recognition of the Palestinian State, this recognition was not a point contained in any of the resolutions tabled; neither yours, nor that of the majority, nor of ours, nor of Mr. Van der Maelen. You may regret, like some of us, that the independence of the Palestinian State is not being addressed, but if you want to restart an in-depth debate on the subject, let us do so through a resolution that you will table, but it has not been the subject of a resolution. The debate should not be held here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u166	It is, of course, a resolution that I have already tabled, since it was following that resolution that the majority had tabled a text on the recognition of the State of Palestine at the appropriate time. On the other hand, this question of recognition of the State of Palestine is not a demand in the text on administrative detentions, but rather, in developments, an important criterion for facilitating the peace process in the region at a given time. It is essential if we are to achieve this objective of peace in the Middle East, which is enshrined in the title of this resolution. As you have not understood the second point that I have developed, I will explain it to you. People who work for Palestinian associations or NGOs, often in the field of human rights, have been held in administrative detention for a year, a year and a half, two years. These people are developing projects financed by Belgian Development Cooperation. My request was to analyse the extent to which Development Cooperation could continue to support these people and associations financially so that they could continue to work despite the fact that their director, for example, is in administrative detention for periods that are sometimes very long and can put the viability of the structure in jeopardy. They either stop paying this director who no longer does his work in the field, since he is in prison, or they have to hire another person and pay two salaries to do this management work, which would undermine the viability of the structure. This was the request that was made in my motion for a resolution and that I would have liked to see included in the section on administrative detentions. Finally, I would like to stress that the European Union and Belgium are intended to be actors in peace and human development in their Mediterranean neighbourhood, of which the Middle East is a part, and that our objective must not be limited to seeing a particular phenomenon and indifference to a particular event, but that, beyond words, concrete action is needed at a given moment. There is the action of our government, but also that of our parliamentary diplomacy, which must be there to build bridges and also relay the difficulties of our co-workers, NGOs but also of certain civilian victims, arbitrary detainees or refugees. We really need to have the courage to look at this suffering in the face to motivate our diplomatic and cooperation actions rather than to take stock of what unfortunately is not going, and then rebuild what has been, and will be constantly, knowingly destroyed by actors who find their interest in the status quo. We must find a negotiated political solution with the support of the international community and the European Union in order to bring about this lasting solution, which we call for. Pending the resumption, and above all the completion, of this peace process, we must respond to the blatant lack that affects civilians, as is the case in the Gaza Strip. We must prioritize our diplomacy in the search for a lasting solution acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u167	Mr President, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs temporarily, I would tend to say, to begin with, "I have a dream". I dream that one day, whether we call ourselves David or Sufiane, we can live in peace, whatever territory we occupy. Colleagues, I had the impression of hearing my esteemed and honourable colleague Mrs Grovonius live a play that I saw not long ago, called Antigone. Antigone is a woman of faith, but she doesn't want to compromise. In the name of this refusal to compromise, it does not ultimately advance the situation. Rather, I share the idea that in order to move forward in life, compromises must be made. We are a Parliament. What do we do on a daily basis, if not compromise, to take one step towards the other in order to advance the legislation and the causes dear to us all? If we put ourselves in the position of refusing any compromise, we have its truth, a part of the truth, but we will never make progress. We have another philosophy. The Socialist and Socio-Democratic parties, all over Europe, accept compromise. I had the impression that we had come back to time immemorial. Our Assembly has already shown how much political currents combined, we attach great importance to the situation in the Middle East, and particularly to the peace process between Israel and Palestine. We have already discussed at length the issues of occupied territories, refugees, colonization, destruction of homes and infrastructure, armed violence causing many unnecessary victims, negotiations, alas, too often in a deadlock. We are discussing this again today to support the concrete action of the government in its common will with our European partners – there are about fifteen socialist governments in Europe – to move forward with the aim of achieving lasting peace between these two peoples. This objective is still alive throughout the heart of the political forces that make up this Parliament, and the number of resolutions tabled and of signatories attests to this. The Reform Movement firmly believes in the possibility of this peace. Our commitment to these two peoples, our development cooperation with Palestine, the very strong ties that bind us to Israel, especially since the Shoah, command us not to turn our eyes away from this war, with its procession of death, destruction, violence, which make fertile ground to radicalization of ideas and acts. Our diplomacy has consistently called for the final settlement of the conflict and the construction of a lasting peace between the two sovereign and independent States – for it is an essential element: two sovereign and independent States – guaranteeing the security of all citizens recognized by all the States of the region. We supported the Quartet's important efforts to move towards resolving the conflict on these bases. Like our Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Foreign Affairs, we all hope for economic cooperation which, as we have done in Europe, guarantees and strengthens peace and harmony between peoples. The announcement of a conference bringing together Israeli, Palestinian and European economic actors in Brussels next month can only welcome us. All that goes in the direction of dialogue is a positive step. We continue to call on the belligerents to measure, to respect the fundamental rights of the people to live in peace, security, dignity, within well-defined borders and, above all, respected. This security and dignity require a roof, water, electricity, food, work, education in a spirit of respect. That's the word that's missing the most there: mutual respect. That is why our country is cooperating with Palestine to provide its inhabitants with decent or decent living conditions. That is why we call on the Israeli Government not to destroy homes and infrastructure, not to bring the Palestinians to the despair and violence it harbours, not to further widen the gap between it and the Palestinians. Today, the Israeli government wants to negotiate only bilaterally and without preconditions with financially and politically weakened Palestinian authorities, because of the lack of regular elections for about fifteen years, I believe, with extremely limited capacity for action. International diplomacy is therefore trying, in particular under the impetus of the French Foreign Minister, Mr Ayrault, whom Mrs Grovonius knows, to facilitate this negotiation by working to consolidate the institutions of the future Palestinian State. Obviously, what I'm talking about is not of interest to Mrs Grovonius. Mrs Grovonius, I listened carefully. You could have a minimum of politeness and do the same. The construction of economic support for that State, following the peace agreement, has the support of civil societies. It does so while solemnly affirming that only the two-State solution can receive its support. In order to promote the emergence of this agreement and to allow for the effective recognition of Palestine as a State, even if the position of the current Israeli government complicates a little – and it is an euphemism – or a lot of it, a reflection on the status of Jerusalem, on the question of refugees, on the question of borders, on the question of colonization is carried out in partnership with regional and Western diplomats, in order to develop what is called a accompanying package around this forthcoming resumption of negotiations between the two sides. It is clear that, although impatient and impatient, we support this initiative. That is why we must respect both the framework and the spirit, without risking endangering them by decisions that are certainly generous and honourable, but potentially counterproductive. The resolution for the timely recognition of Palestine as a State, which we adopted last year, is part of that perspective. The resolution we are going to put to the vote today shows the support of the Belgian Parliament and we hope for unanimity to further strengthen the weight of this resolution, but perhaps Antigone will not want it. By calling for the revival of the Middle East peace process and urging the federal government and the European Union to fully support it, she called on the government to call on both parties to stop any action against a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders. It also calls for condemnation of the colonization policy of the State of Israel and for its immediate cessation. It also calls for an end to the blockade of Ghaza by Israel and Egypt. And Egypt too! It calls for the condemnation of Palestinian rocket fire and the construction of tunnels. Finally, she asked to join the French initiative, taken by Mr Fabius - it was still more friendly, was it not Antigone? - aimed at relaunching the peace process through the organisation of an international conference, even if, as mentioned above, the holding of an international conference is postponed. It will also be met in part at the meeting of economic leaders next month in Brussels, which is in line with another step in this resolution, which calls for several sub-paragraphs: 1. contribute to the reconstruction of Gaza by organizing an economic conference and providing bilateral development assistance; 2. encourage the European Union's policy of differentiation by fully implementing the recommendation of the SPF Economy on the labelling of goods from the Palestinian territories; 3. To condemn the destruction of Belgian development projects in Israel and to request, if necessary, bilateral compensation; 4. To condemn the administrative arrests of Palestinians and, in particular, members of political and associative movements; 5. Continue to advocate for human rights activists; 6. To urge the Israeli authorities to accelerate the transfer of powers and responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority in Area C; 7. To insist with Hamas and Fatah for reconciliation and the holding of elections allowing for legitimate and effective Palestinian political representation because a country without an election is not a true country. The more a broad consensus emerges, the stronger the signal given – I would like to insist again – and the more likely it will be to be heard by our government but, beyond it, by Europe. It supports the policy of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and beyond, at a time when US policy – Mrs Grovonius rightly pointed out – on this issue may be less legible – it is an understatement – and potentially less balanced in the future. Clearly and in summary, on behalf of the MR, I welcome this resolution, on which we have worked together, with the majority and with the opposition, for the work done in the majority but also in opposition on a number of points. We even took into account the amendments tabled by the PS when no Member of this group was present in committee. It is rare, in my view, for this to happen. Anyway, we take our choice with pride. I hope that the diplomatic efforts undertaken for many years will finally bear fruit and open an era of peace for the Israeli and Palestinian people, so long awaited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u168	Mr President, everyone is aware that the peace process between Israel and Palestine is at an impasse. Parliament is very concerned about this. It is therefore important that we give the signal that the situation in the Middle East needs to be closely monitored. With this resolution, we want to push that process forward again and address the concerns that need to be resolved in order to get the peace process back on track. The resolution has therefore become a wide-ranging resolution covering many concerns and seeking to put forward a solution. It is therefore an exercise to approach the peace process between Israel and Palestine in a pragmatic and balanced way. We believe that this is the way to bring the actors needed to implement the peace process effectively, namely Israel and Palestine, to the table. Our group calls for a peaceful and lasting two-state solution, which takes into account the legitimate demands of both parties, namely the security of Israel and the establishment of a Palestinian state within the 1967 borders and of Jerusalem as the capital of both states. We are very much looking forward to the international conference to be held at the initiative of France. The concerns we raise in the resolution are as follows. First of all, we want to urge both sides to stop actions, provocations and acts of violence that can block the peace process and undermine the two-state solution. A second concern is the situation in the Gaza Strip, which is very serious and should be given priority attention. The reconstruction of infrastructure and the provision of humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian people are therefore essential. This resolution therefore calls for the blockade of Gaza to be lifted on both the Israeli and the Egyptian sides and for the separation between the Gaza Strip and the West Bank to be brought to an end. A third concern is the settlement policy, which undermines the two-state solution. We therefore call for the condemnation and immediate cessation of the Israeli Government's settlement policy. This includes the destruction of development projects. It is therefore entirely justified to ask for compensation. The resolution takes a number of clear and important steps by asking Israel, with the countries concerned, which also saw their projects destroyed, to ask for compensation and if this fails to take further steps even at bilateral level. We want and must take the lead in this as a country. One final concern that I would like to raise is the fact that it is also important that we subscribe to the differentiation policy. With this differentiation policy, we want to continue to guarantee the two-state solution so that Israeli settlements cannot enjoy the benefit of bilateral relations between the EU and Israel. However, this does not lead to a boycott of Israel itself. An important condition for increased stability in the region is that there is a reconciliation between the various Palestinian groups, so that the Palestinian Authority has authority over the entire Palestinian territory, and thus also over Gaza. This resolution also calls for this. We must also put an end to the secret arms and militant actions in Gaza. These elements are also essential in order to enable the two-state solution. In short, this resolution seeks to push forward the peace process between Israel and Palestine once again. Our group will therefore support this resolution. We would like to thank all those who have contributed to this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate Mr Van Peteghem on his maiden speech. [[Applause]] Colleague, there have already been better circumstances to make a maiden speech, but you should be aware that whoever remains is the hard core. It's actually the quality that floats above.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on External Relations we have the habit of discussing a resolution once in a while. I rarely find these resolutions interesting because they are often copy/paste of government policy. Parliament then has little added value. I believe that we, as Parliament, should be able to formulate this added value in resolutions that are opposed and which encourage the government to go beyond government policy. If we can adopt such resolutions, I think we will take our responsibilities as MEPs to heart. The resolution before us is a good example. It does not follow the bad example of, unfortunately, most of the resolutions on the agenda in the Committee on External Relations. Why is this resolution different from the others? Why is she better than average? First of all, because the method was right. There has been a lot of consultation between majority and opposition. We have had a long debate on this resolution in committee. Many amendments from opposition groups s.pa, PS and Ecolo-Green have been accepted. Two amendments from my group have been tabled today by the majority groups. In short, we have established a great deal of openness in order to produce a text which can send a strong signal to all concerned. People who follow the problem know that resolutions on Israel and Palestine are read at embassies, in foreign departments, and that they appear in the press, let me put it this way, the specialized press, in order to put pressure on us, representatives of the people. We know that there is also a representative of the Minister in the Foreign Office who is here to give us signals. The pressure on the cabinet is sometimes increased. That is, of course, because the Middle East is a delicate region where there are many interests. If you ask my opinion, we must be able to assess the situation in the Middle East from our own security point of view. I am convinced that this resolution is a signal that will come. I would specifically like to thank Nele Lines, the main proposer of this resolution. I would also like to thank her colleagues from the majority for their open spirit and for the constructive method used here. This resolution is also different from other resolutions because of its content. This is an example of a resolution that effectively encourages the government to do things that it is not doing yet. It is a resolution with a clear content. It contains a number of clear measures. In any case, there are no unacceptable issues for us. Could the motion for a resolution go further? Yeah, I could have. The text goes beyond current government policy in a number of areas. The government is urged to take steps. In this sense, it can be a good and potentially strong resolution. I should like briefly to comment on a number of substantive elements. The motion for a resolution clearly confirms the two-state solution, which was evident a year ago. Now she's not obvious anymore. In Israel, ministers, even Heads of Government, are questioning the two-state solution. The debate in Israel is evolving in such a way that we are increasingly turning away from such a two-state solution. If that becomes the consensus, the Belgian Parliament will certainly make it clear that we do not want to commit to it. We are sticking to the 1967 borders, i.e. to Israel within the 1967 borders. In the current political debate in Israel, there are voices in favour of legalising illegal settlements in Palestinian territory. In other words, this goes completely against the European consensus and Belgian policy in this area. The fact that we are holding on to the 1967 borders is now more important than perhaps ever before. However, we go beyond government policy, even bilaterally, when we ask for greater differentiation policy. In particular, we say that Israeli settlements should not benefit from relations between the European Union and Israel. We are also making a very clear declaration of territoriality for all the bilateral agreements that we are still concluding with Israel. We also argue that goods from the Palestinian territories still need to be labelled. We also call for the immediate cessation of settlements in Palestinian territory. With regard to the compensation we demand in connection with the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure in occupied territory, financed by our resources and by Belgian Development Cooperation, we add one more element. We are adding a useful process to the European structural dialogue, which has recently been extended and should result in an arrangement preventing Palestinian infrastructure from being destroyed in the future. From now on, therefore, we are not waiting for the end of the European structural dialogue, and we are asking the Belgian Government, in consultation with the countries that are prepared to do so, to take diplomatic initiatives to ultimately obtain compensation. Mr Lijnen is right to refer to the report of the committee meeting. This clearly shows the will to sit with other countries. This is not about the whole of the European Union, it is about those countries which, like Belgium, want to go further and see themselves blocked by other Member States of the European Union. From now on, we will continue with a core group and will put a question of compensation together or bilaterally if we have to. I would like to comment on a number of current developments which make the timing of this resolution proposal equally interesting. The security situation in the Middle East, Israel and the Palestinian territories remains very precarious. The frustration and desperation of the Palestinian people remain great. A knife intifada has been going on for a year, with victims on both sides, and many civilian casualties: almost 300 Palestinian and 33 Israeli deaths. Yesterday, a knife-waving Palestinian was shot dead at the West Bank. Four days ago, a Palestinian was shot to death on the Gaza border because he was throwing stones. There are also victims on the Israeli side: settlements are invaded and civilians are endorsed. There are regularly new announcements of permits for settlements, for example in early November 181 additional houses in East Jerusalem. With the election of Donald Trump the reins are also celebrated. In Israel, more than seven thousand new homes are now announced in settlements. In the Knesset, a law is currently under discussion to re-legalize settlements, as I have just said. The first reading in the Israeli Parliament is already over. As regards the destruction of the infrastructure, a playground in Za'atara, south of Nablus on the West Bank, was destroyed by the Israeli authorities on 12 April 2016. Earlier, on 29 September 2014, there were destructions to the electricity network of Khirbet al-Tawil. In Israel itself, the NGOs working for respect for human rights and international law are being addressed. Human rights activists are being made difficult to live. Think of Brigitte Herremans, who is denied access to Israel for no reason. Brigitte Herremans is a valued voice in the debate. There is also detention, Mrs Grovonius has rightly tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter and undermining the rule of law in Israel. There are therefore many reasons why a resolution and a stronger Belgian policy are appropriate. For a number of substantive and methodological reasons, the opposition will support the motion for a resolution. We could, of course, move on. Our party's position is clear and well-known. We have had many parliamentary debates. We are in favour of the recognition of Palestine. We are also in favour of banning the import of products from illegal Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory. Such initiatives are not excluded by what is now in the text. The motion for a resolution represents an important step forward for us. It is a compromise, but it is a good and strong compromise. It's not a half-baked compromise. It will arrive at the places where it must arrive. I think we should continue along that road. We must enforce respect for international law by exerting pressure on the Israeli government. Let us work on mandatory labelling of products coming from illegal settlements. Let us acknowledge the Palestinian state. The proposal is a good, important step in the right direction. The opposition has been pleased to participate in the process. We will also approve the text tomorrow with enthusiasm in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u171	I still have two requests for intervention. The first is from Mr. Van Hees, who does not honor us with his presence. The second, by Mr. Van der Maelen. Yes, Mr. Van Hees comes back before you finish, we will give him the floor. Otherwise, we will not benefit from his analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try not to take too long. If you follow me, my intervention may be very brief. If you ask me for my personal opinion on this resolution, I think the only sensible thing we can do is to send them back to the committee and start the exercise we have made again. Why? This resolution has been overtaken by a fact, in particular the election of Donald Trump in the United States. The starting point of this resolution is to work on a two-state solution, but I believe that there is a consensus on this by majority and opposition, and the settlement policy is a major obstacle to a two-state solution. Mr De Vriendt just pointed out how Israel reacted to Mr Trump's election. Here and there I can quote a statement and put a name on it. Do you know what the Minister of Education, Mr Nafali Bennett, a Minister of the Israeli Government, said? He said that thanks to the election of Donald Trump, they can permanently bury the two-state solution. That's what a minister of the Israeli government said. I am also thinking of the statements made by a number of other ministers and politicians from the majority and from the opposition. For example, Mr Lapid, who seems to be Mr Netanyahu's great challenger, has, quite frankly, said that nothing now prevents Israel from creating more facts on the ground and building even more settlements on the West Bank. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the totally new situation that has been created. The text of this resolution is based on the assumption that Hillary Clinton and the Democrats would win the presidency of the United States. If that had been the case, the resolution before us could be satisfied, albeit with considerable difficulty as far as I am concerned. However, the situation has changed completely. Once again, if we take ourselves seriously, we will send this resolution back to committee to start from the newly created situation, after which we will decide what we think is necessary. Let us not be naive. The majority of my fellow Members strongly urge that the resolution be adopted unanimously, because that will impress where it needs to be impressed. Colleagues, I don't know if you remember Moshe Dayan. You know how crucial the United States is to have an impact on Israel. Do you know what Moshe Dayan said about Israel's relationship with the United States? They give us money, he said, they give us weapons and they give us advice. And I, Moshe Dayan, suggest that we accept the money that we use the weapons and that we put the advice aside. To all those who have the illusion that a resolution, unanimously approved in the Chamber, will make some impression in Tel Aviv, forget it. With a Democratic President in the United States, the appearance of a two-state solution could still be maintained. As I said in committee, one has to be almost hypocritical to close his eyes to the facts. In 1993 there was the Oslo agreement. The deal was peace by land, where the Palestinians would get a piece of land; 22% of the original area was given to the Palestinians. Well, as I said, for the first ten years, i.e. between 1993 and 2005, 250 000 settlers, 250 000 Israelis, have established themselves in the West Bank. A further 120 000 have been added between 2005 and the end of 2015. And I'm not talking about East Jerusalem, I'm just talking about the West Bank. Paragraph 4 of the resolution deals with how we will react if Israel continues with the settlements. What does the majority propose? Firstly, that our response will be limited to what is called differentiation. I admit that the scope of differentiation is getting a little wider through the Green amendment, but before Trump's election, and especially after Trump's election, you cannot allow your only response to additional settlements to be limited to differentiation. It is therefore unacceptable that it should be said at the end: neither economic sanctions against Israel nor a boycott of Israel. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 196 states in the world, 196 countries that are members of the UN. On what grounds, politically or legally, should an exception be made for Israel, so that that country can never be subject to sanctions? Netanyahu is the most moderate in the Israeli government. After the election of Trump, right in Israel, the road is now open to build even more settlements and to permanently bury the two-state solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u173	I shall then come to the second stumbling block, point 10. Ladies and gentlemen, read this text carefully. Again, progress has been made. However, there is no timing. Moreover, never underestimate diplomats and certainly not when their minister is called Didier Reynders. Look at those lines. What is in it, ladies and gentlemen, is the following, I quote: 'to take diplomatic initiatives to persuade the Israeli Government to accept the principle'. It's not about the compensation. It's not about taking diplomatic initiatives to get compensation. No, it is about asking the Israeli Government to accept the principle of compensation for the destruction of infrastructure paid with Belgian tax money. I come to my third and final point. I promised I'd be short. Our amendment is not in the resolution. It was rejected. I don't understand why it was rejected. It calls on the Belgian Government to support the preliminary investigation by the International Criminal Court into the behaviour of the Israeli army and Palestinian organisations in the last two conflicts that took place in Gaza. I know Israel absolutely doesn't want that. Israel considers itself a state that is not subject to international law and certainly not to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. Colleagues, many countries believe, like the sp.a, that respect for international war law and international humanitarian law in their mutual clashes is the least we can ask of the two parties. The majority wanted that. Perhaps we would have got over it, because with this text there is indeed progress, but after the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States this resolution is far too light.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u174	Mr van der Maelen, we are almost always on the same lines as we are on Israel and Palestine, but you are too sensitive about the signal we are sending and the importance of the resolution. It is a comprehensive resolution that addresses much injustice that is currently taking place in the Middle East and the Palestinian territories. That injustice is caused by Israel. This is recognised in the resolution. There's a lot of indignation in it. It would be a good thing that this also happens room-wide. It is also good that it is repeated after a number of years, so that all spirits in this hemisphere remain on the right line. I don't think that's something we can just sweep under the mat. The resolution goes even further because we are encouraging the government to take action that goes beyond current government policy. We are also in favour of the recognition of Palestine and we are asking the government to recognise it. We would also ask for a radical ban on products coming from illegal Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory, but that might be for the next time. We will fight for that, hopefully together with you. However, the progress made by this resolution, both in terms of method and in terms of indignation and in terms of effective progress in policy, is worth supporting. As far as your point on economic sanctions and Israel's boycott is concerned, I have always understood that it was also your party's position to go first to a sanction against settlement policy. That sanction against settlement policy is just that deepening of differentiation policy, which is literally stated in the resolution. We ask the Belgian Government to deepen and strengthen this differentiation policy. In fact, we are already starting with these compensations, for the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure in occupied territory, but it can of course go further. There is a European research programme involving our FPS Justice, EU LAW-TRAIN, which, in our view, does not take sufficient account of this differentiation policy. Well, on the basis of this resolution, we have an additional instrument in our hands to interperate our Minister of Justice on this and to ask him whether he should withdraw from that EU LAW-TRAIN project because the network does not take into account differentiation policy. I come to one final point. When it comes to compensation for the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure, it is a great step forward for me in this text that we are no longer waiting for the end of the structural dialogue, which had actually ended in March this year and which has been extended infinitely. So far, the attitude of the Belgian Government has always been to engage in this European structural dialogue and to wait. Inside, we're gonna put our items on the agenda, but we're gonna wait. If the government follows Parliament's question, then from now on the government will have to take other diplomatic initiatives in parallel with those few countries that are fully in line with us in order to arrive at a demand for compensation. I do not think it is a pity that a different, more urgent and stronger diplomatic initiative is now being launched. I don't like that. I think you are getting over those points, which we believe can improve Belgian policy on Israel and Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u175	Mr President, you and I generally condemn the Minister for Foreign Affairs for being very strong in the speech when, for example, the Israeli government decides to set up new settlements. He was irreproachable in his speech at a time when the Belgian Development Cooperation projects were destroyed by the IDF in Zone C. Moreover, the speech of the Minister for Development Cooperation was also extremely strong on this occasion. On the other hand, you and I can blame him that the political acts he subsequently imposed were weaker. If one can congratulate himself on his posture, one can deplore his lack of actions. You have mentioned two points in connection with which Mr. De Vriendt and I played a role through the amendments we tabled. Here we are talking about the major advance in compensation and the reference to "unilateral" which is a first in the history of our committee and this Parliament. On the other hand, the question of differentiation with, for the first time, a reference to a text which clearly allows, as I said to Mrs Grovonius earlier, to imagine a rule, a law designed to prevent the eventual sale of products from the colonies. Indeed, the text is very clear about the export of goods from Israel. This is a question of the 1967 borders. These two elements show us that there is real progress and that we can imagine progress, in the context of a thorough democratic parliamentary debate, on these two issues. And these advances are not to be taken lightly. That's how I get to your argument about Trump. The connoisseur of the field and the file that you are usually makes better arguments. You know, like me, that even if Hillary Clinton had been elected, the power of the Israeli lobby over Mrs. Clinton's person would have been extremely high, even if Mr. Netanyahu hoped that Mr. Trump would be elected, which was the case. With this resolution, which the Foreign Minister can rely on, I believe that the European Union can move forward with its partners. It can advance both on compensation for destruction as well as on a rule that would allow in the future to prohibit the importation of products manufactured in colonies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u176	I would like to mention the end of point 4 of this resolution, which states: "ensuring that the application of this policy of differentiation does not in any way lead to a limitation of European investment in Israel". This point was amended by Mr. From Vriendt to ensure that Israel is well distinguished from the occupied territories. What makes me difficult, and what Mr. Van der Maelen has just indicated, is the continuation of the sentence. It states that "the application of this policy of differentiation does not in any way lead to economic sanctions". This is difficult because, contrary to what Mr. De Vriendt, the policy of differentiation does not necessarily lead to sanctions, since the text explicitly states that this "can under no circumstances lead to sanctions". If, indeed, one wants to be credible and audible, one must not close the door to possible sanctions when the Israeli State commits acts that are, under international law, completely illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u177	That is indeed a difference of opinion. This is new to me. If you say that you are in favour of economic sanctions against Israel, and Israel within the 1967 borders, we have added that through an amendment, which is at least a new tactic. It's something we can discuss, but it's not our tactics. Our tactic is to first sanction the settlement policy. This resolution opens up a number of new possibilities to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u178	What we learn in the Committee on External Relations is that there is a difference in language between diplomacy and politics. What Mr De Vriendt said earlier is that we often ask ourselves in many resolutions: what have we achieved here? I think that we have just taken this resolution a step further and that this is due to a cooperation based mainly on progressive understanding. The debate was enriching and the result is on the table here today. Mr De Vriendt says that this resolution on which we will be voting tomorrow will arrive where it is due to arrive. Mrs Grovonius said that she feels it is almost a shame that it took so long for us to start this debate, for the well-known reasons. We've been very honest about that, too. I understand she's sorry about that. You, Mr Van der Maelen, are calling on Trump to send the debate back to committee today and again. I think it's a missed chance that you don't majority. I am also very sorry that you are proposing today, because of Trump, to console the entire debate in the garbage can, to miss an opportunity here with history and not to approve it. Sin, sin, sin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u179	I think it is very nice to try to put myself in Trump's camp, if one knows my opinion of the region and of Mr Trump's. I do not know if you have noticed, colleagues, but the first government leader to speak to Trump after his election was Benjamin Netanyahu. Benjamin Netanyahu said in the election campaign: I am committed to moving the United States Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I could make the list even longer. I'm rounding up. Colleagues, the difference of opinion with you, the majority plus the Green Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, concerns two things. Firstly, I say, and I say it in French: 'La donne a totalement change'. The environment and the determining actors in the policy towards Israel and Palestine have changed completely. I've said it before. I didn't happen to give those examples. This resolution is based on the option of a two-state solution and it starts from the premise that we must limit settlements. Now, read what is written in Haaretz and other Israeli newspapers after the election of Trump. Forget it, that's over! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, you have a great deal of confidence in the majority, which does not surprise me, but it does surprise me about the opposition in the actions that must be taken in the future in support of this text. I suggest that we look at the effect of Trump's election and see what the government makes of this text. Let's say a year from now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB is very committed to the question of a just and respectful solution to international law for Palestine, which implies an end to occupation and colonization, the right to the return of Palestinian refugees and equal treatment for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this resolution. I give you the two main reasons and I will go to the essentials. The first point is the dismissal of the two sides back to back: Palestine and Israel. Today there is a clear situation of a State that has been oppressing, discriminating and colonizing a people for decades, in the most total disregard of international law. As a reminder, since the launch of the Oslo process in 1993, there have been the construction of the wall as well as 50,000 new housing units built in the West Bank and a few thousand more in East Jerusalem. The settler population in the West Bank increased from 116,300 in 1993 to 385,000 by the end of 2015. For East Jerusalem alone, this number increased from 146,800 in 1993 to 211,960 in 2015. The blockade of Gaza is maintained. On 16 November, the Israeli parliament adopted a bill providing for the legalization of houses built by Israeli settlers in the West Bank on Palestinian private land. There is no desire for peace or recognition of the rights of the Palestinian people by the Israeli authorities at the present time, and that is where the problem lies. This situation seems to be denied in this motion for a resolution. My second point, arising from the first, concerns the lack of sanction for the Israeli government's policy. I think this is essential and the end of apartheid in South Africa has, it seems, shown it. Labelling is a very good thing, but it is not enough. Steps must be taken to stop support for the Israeli government from Western governments and the de facto impunity that Western governments enjoy accordingly. In addition to the three billion annual US support, Israel is supported through economic cooperation agreements and European programmes such as Horizon 2020. I have also recently spoken during the oral questions to denounce one of the projects envisaged by these programmes, the LAW-TRAIN project, which aims to strengthen the Israeli apparatus of repression and which directly involves the Belgian public authorities and universities. It is for this reason that we have pleaded, for years, with the PTB, for the cessation of Belgian economic missions in Israel. On the contrary, the resolution takes an explicit position that "there is no need to restrict European investment in Israel, to impose economic sanctions or to boycott Israel". Pleasing without any means of real pressure for a peace process, of which it is clear that the current Israeli leaders absolutely do not want, makes no sense. It is for this reason that we consider that this resolution goes beyond the question and is therefore counterproductive. We will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u181	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u182	• 26 Wouter De Vriendt cs (1973/7) Demand/Request 4 • 27 Wouter De Vriendt cs (1973/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u183	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u184	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u186	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2092/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2092/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u187	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u188	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u189	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u190	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2093/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2093/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u191	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u192	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u193	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u194	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2094/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2094/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u195	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u196	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u197	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u198	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2095/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2095/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u199	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u200	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u201	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. I did not agree to this with the previous speaker, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, but I am explicitly asking you to return the important bill, which is now before us, to the committee. That would allow us to reopen the debate. Let me explain to you why. We received the draft law on 10 October asking for it to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, whatever happened. It suddenly crawled for all the drafts and proposals in the special committee on combating terrorism. There was no response to the request by several members of both our groups and other groups to hold hearings, which I believe is somewhat contrary to the spirit of that committee, because that committee would seek to seek a consensus across the borders of majority and opposition in a common fight, including a legal fight, against terrorism. On 21 October, ten days after the distribution, the draft law was discussed. A second reading took place on 10 November and that is what it was. That could be the case, had it not been for a colleague from that committee, Mr Yüksel, who is present here on 16 November, six days after the end of the discussions, to suddenly feel alarmed and inform the public, referring to a letter from the European Commission on the draft law. The European Commission is apparently warning the Belgian federal government of possible problems with the draft. With all possible means, I have tried to get hold of that letter from the European Commission, but I have not succeeded. If the European Commission writes a letter to the federal government on this draft law, it would be useful for a democratic debate to report and explain it when discussing the draft. I have read the report on our committee's work very carefully. The Minister refers to the transposition of a European directive and a number of opinions are mentioned, but no mention is made of the European Commission's letter on this draft, which, according to Mr Yüksel's public statement, had apparently already been sent to the federal government. I would therefore ask, in the context of transparency, that our institution should at least allow us to take note of this letter and to devote the necessary discussions to it. I therefore urge that the draft be dealt with in committee as soon as possible. That means that it should be sent back to committee here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u202	Mr President, I agree with my colleague on this request, which I think is entirely legitimate because indeed there is an important fact which has come since the closure of the committee. It was this famous letter that was sent by three different Commissioners, which was in any case signed, as we can read, by three different Commissioners. So it's not annoyance. Therefore, if we do not go back to committee, I would like to have this letter at least so that we can see what the Commission's prior opinion on this draft Belgian NRP is. I think this is important in the debate we have today. It would be much more serene if we could postpone the point and discuss it again in committee. I will ask at least to have the letter sent by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u203	I think we have had a good discussion in committee twice so far. It is true that some were in favour of holding hearings, including the two speakers who have just spoken. I think it is also interesting to know exactly what was asked by the European Commission. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify exactly what was said here. I believe that this does not have to be suspensive for the discussion and the vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u204	Indeed, in this somewhat special legislative process, we met twice at noon, once a Thursday noon, which is quite exceptional, and once a Friday noon, which is even more exceptional. Here, with new information coming to us, if we had followed a normal legislative process that would have spread over three weeks, we could have had a week of hearings. We could have interviewed the European Commission, such as the police, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy or other actors. We could have interviewed the European Commission, possibly Violeta Bulc, the Commissioner for Mobility and Transport, Dimitris Avramopoulos in charge of Migration and Home Affairs or Julian King in charge of Security. We could also have heard the Transport DG, who sent you a letter last summer via our ambassador to the European Union's COREPER here in Brussels. I have the letter from the European Commission. I am quite prepared, if the minister is not ready to give it, to pass it on to the president so that we can share it with colleagues. I'll be happy to share this information. It's a shame, it's true, to have to come to this. A normal, non-emergency democratic process would not have lasted longer and could have allowed for the adoption, under normal democratic conditions, of a measure that is an extremely intrusive measure of privacy. Here, unfortunately, the process does not allow us to have this complete opening on the information available. If transparency is to be made here in plenary, I am quite prepared to give this letter which has been sent to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u205	Mr President, we are about to begin the final discussion of a framework law. The European Commission's comments are without prejudice to this. The further development of these issues in the R &amp; D programmes, which was also mainly my point of criticism, involves looking at the right approach for each transport sector to ensure that the side effects are to a large extent absorbed by a number of supporting measures and framework conditions. I will discuss this in detail later in the discussion. It is, of course, up to the Minister to judge the question put by Mr Bonte and other fellow Members to make the letter public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u206	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u207	Mr Van der Maelen, I cannot know if the letter has arrived. I know he left, and I don't have any information on that. We are voting tomorrow on a framework law. The comments are without prejudice to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u208	Mr President, I understand the opposition perfectly. I might have done the same in their place, except for these important safety-related issues. However, I understand that the opposition is using everything to slow down the legislative process. This is part of the parliamentary work of an opposition. Mr Bonte, you never asked me, otherwise you would have received the letter. That would not have been a problem, because the issues raised in the letter, as Mr Yüksel rightly says, have all been reviewed in committee. We have talked about the fact that it is a framework law, about the consultation with the various sectors before we come up with CEDEFOPs. I have undertaken that we will not take unilateral measures on such matters, such as international rail traffic, without discussing them with the countries concerned. All these issues have been dealt with, and I have no problem with dealing with them in the debate which I hope will be discussed this evening, Mr Yüksel. The position will, however, be no different in the course of the debate than it will be during the discussion in committee. The letter from the three Commissioners of the European Union, on which I addressed Commissioner King last Friday and which has already been answered, does not deviate from the discussion in committee. I see no reason why we should slow down the discussion at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u209	Firstly, I take note of the willingness to distribute the letter to those who do not yet have it, because apparently some already have it. Secondly, and for the sake of Mr Bonte who started the discussion, I must of course say that I note that there is a committee report, that there has been a vote and that this matter has therefore been given by the committee to this plenary. We are therefore called upon to begin this discussion unless, of course, we decide otherwise. That's the obvious thing. In that case, you have to tell me exactly where you're going with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u210	Mr President, Minister, I would like to respond calmly to what you are saying, in particular that the opposition must slow down. You have not seen any delay in my two years, in any of the draft laws. Mr Minister, I only note that certain issues need to be dealt with quickly, while other matters relating to security policy, which are particularly important for many, both the majority and the opposition, are not even discussed, for example, about the merger of the Brussels police zones. What is crucial in the fight against terrorism in this country, in particular an effective unitary structure in our capital in the field of police, is not even mentioned because some majority party is making it a taboo. That is the reality. I have not done any delay manoeuvre so far, and I would also like to deny that this is a delay manoeuvre. I would also like to say that even if we are told on Wednesday that there is a committee meeting on Thursday afternoon, we will be present. I will check and let you know how many times the committee could continue despite the fact that the majority was not in number. Even if the majority were not in number, we have continued discussions from the opposition in order not to have any delay. I'll look it up and let you know. I do not accept the criticism that we have been delaying in the past in the safety files, nor do I accept today that the manoeuvre I am referring to here is regarded as a delay. Mr President, I fully agree with you that, in a democracy, the majority can force the minority. This also happened in committee, after which the committee concluded, were it not that five days later a committee member referred to a European letter which was already on the table and which was not mentioned. Mr Yüksel, I feel that you are taking a turn. I have the press release before me, which shows that you are very concerned about the Commission's writing and that you take into account the Commission's warnings on this matter in the draft law. That's what I read in your press release. Mr President, all I want is for us to be able to express our views on this important draft with all the arguments and elements of the dossier. That is how I started my speech. My question is therefore to postpone it for a day and to deal with it tomorrow or Friday in committee. I understand that another e-mail has arrived today that we have a committee meeting after all on Friday. Have it on the agenda and we'll be back here next week. Mr President, our country has committed itself to the European directive story. That European Directive should be transposed by April 2018. The draft was distributed on 21 October 2016. It was thoroughly discussed for the first time, and a second time in second reading. After that, the criticism of the European Commission was made public by a member of the majority, and I do not have it at my disposal. I am simply asking that you be the guardian of decent parliamentary work, of decent legislative work. I understand that a committee of inquiry has been set up today to see if we have worked too quickly in the past. Let us do a decent parliamentary work here, which is likely to enable us to create a much broader draft law. It would only benefit security policy if we had a broader democratic basis for important laws such as this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u211	Mr Bonte, I would like to reassure you, firstly, with regard to the single police. I know you are getting impatient, but we will also have that debate in committee. Don't worry. Secondly, with regard to the Commission's concerns expressed in the letter, I share those concerns. When we start the discussion, I will come back to that as well. There's no bend or anything. My point is, and the Minister has just confirmed it: we will be talking about a framework law. The practical effects... The Commission's concern is just about that. I will come back to that later. In practical terms, we take into account a number of things. No more, no less. I hope that we can indeed begin the debate. There's plenty of room and time to discuss all these matters in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u212	Mr President, I would like to point out, in relation to the honourable Member of the European Parliament, that the debates have been properly conducted. I would like to thank the minister for having been there every time, for having answered all the questions that have been put. This is the implementation of a European decision. In the European Parliament, there have been hearings, there have been many debates in the Committee on Freedoms. In this context, we may not share, as is the case with the Ecolo Group, the foundations of what has been discussed and voted on by the European Parliament. There was a large majority, ranging from Christian Democrats to Liberals, to Socialists, to this project. Of course, the Minister's draft is a framework law which, a priori, can make it possible to go further, since it allows us to go beyond the railways, towards the railways, the sea lanes, the bus tracks. On two occasions, however, the minister reminded the committee that there would be consultation. Cooperation is also under way with the railways of the other countries directly surrounding Belgium. The minister is more or less committed to not acting alone in this area. Furthermore, it seems to me to be extremely important, and this has been said in committee, that it is explicitly foreseen that interim assessments will be organised and a synthesis analysis will be carried out after the two years of application, which will allow, if necessary, and we are always smarter when we adapt to reality, to amend legislation, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u213	I propose that we confine ourselves to the discussion on the order of business. Mr Bonte introduced this point. The substantive debate is either for tonight or for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u214	Mr Flahaux, Mr Bonte insisted on a letter from the European Commission which was concerned that the Belgian law transposing the PNR Directive involved other means of transport than the aircraft, namely the train, the bus and the boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u215	(...) They ask for consultation and we have already replied that we are ready to accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u216	Minister, what you're saying is not correct. Allow me to translate the penultimate paragraph of the letter. It states that the implementation of a NRP could reduce the attractiveness of public transport. If that's not a concern, minister, that's a very clear warning. It's not a request for explanation. Mr Flahaux, although the in-depth debate has already taken place in the European Parliament on the choice of the European directive, the debate at European level has only taken place on the plane. And the letter to which Mr Bonte refers concerns the fact that only Belgium incorporates the means of transport other than the aircraft in its law transposing the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u217	Mr Bonte, I would like to confirm that you are not the one who is causing delays in the files. You may say that the majority is not always in number, but even though you were present at the time the procedures were discussed, you left the sitting when it was about content. You must have had your reasons. You did not delay, because you were not present at the time. You accuse the government and the majority of us of working too quickly on the dossier, and you point out that there is still time. On the other hand, you often accuse us of following the facts with our legislation. We are now taking the lead in a dossier. We are taking the lead at European level. I therefore propose that we continue this pioneering role and begin the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u218	Mr President, I seem to have been misunderstood. I'm not blaming anyone here. All I want is for me to have all the elements of the file at my disposal to make a correct judgment. That is my pride as a Member of Parliament. I have had to observe that, after the committee's discussion, a letter appears from the European Commission, which, according to the press, has been signed by three Commissioners who are addressed to the Belgian Government and of which I have no knowledge. Nor is it mentioned in the report, let alone that there has been a debate on it. Today it is confirmed that the letter criticises legislation. I therefore feel a little caught up as a Member of Parliament, because I am unable to judge and weigh the arguments. That's it! For the rest, I am not blaming anyone here and will always try to be as constructive as possible on the relevant policy area. Allow me to take all the elements into account before I have to push a button here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u219	Mr Bonte, first of all, there is a committee meeting and a report. The draft will therefore come to plenary. Secondly, it is constantly about the letter. I'm just asking a question, Mr. Bonte. Could you agree to start the debate as the letter in question, which I understand is circulating in the hemisphere, as soon as possible, that means immediately, copied and distributed? Thirdly and finally, we can only change the agenda by voting on it. But if you ask for the vote, then there are not enough of us to be able to make a valid decision, not to say any more. In that case, regrettably, I shall have to suspend the sitting and, if Rule 42 (3) is applied, refer to tomorrow. Mr Bonte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u220	Mr President, I have long been chairman of the Committee on Health, the Committee on Social Affairs and a committee of inquiry. I have a lot of experience with that. So I know that I can ask for a vote to change the agenda. Maybe I should consider that. I would just like to try, also in this debate, to keep the courtesy going and to continue constructively. There is no reason, Mr President-in-Office, not to answer a question put by a Member of Parliament, if he knows of any other important arguments, to refer the draft law back to the committee, which will be held the day after tomorrow, and then, instead of writing a first on 23 November on 30 November. It is about a directive to be transposed by April 2018. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a directive adopted in 2004 is also being transposed here? We are about 12 years late with that. Now it's supposed to be a week? I would therefore ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to refer the draft back to committee in the interests of the proper functioning of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u221	Mr. Bonte, I must disappoint you. I'm not going to do that for the simple reason that I've heard the two opinions here. Some people are asking for the debate to take place now, which is why the discussion in committee was just about the elements contained in the letter. I wasn't there. I haven't read all the reports either. I'm just reading the commissaries. I don't know, but I'll take note of that. That is why I am not going to make that decision myself, but I repeat: if you ask for the vote on the change...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u222	I can only ask for the vote, Mr President, if only for the fellow Members of the Committee on the Interior or the Committee on Anti-Terrorism, including the chairman. I do not know whether the chairman of our committee, who cannot be here, is aware of the letter. If only for the sake of the proper parliamentary debate and for everyone who has followed this discussion to know all the elements. So I'm asking for the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u223	I note that you are asking for the vote. I also note that the Chamber is not in number in order to be able to vote validly. In applying the Rules of Procedure, we will add this draft to tomorrow's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u224	To understand well, technically. I understand that we are not in number. There's no need to even do the math. But if you postpone the general discussion until tomorrow, does that mean that a committee will first examine new elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u225	No. The House cannot vote because we are not in number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u226	I understood that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u227	In addition, I am quoting from Rule 42 of our Rules of Procedure, point 3. I apologize for reading it in Dutch. If it is established that the required number of members is not present, the president may postpone the meeting. I don't think this makes any sense. We won't be here in 60 minutes with 75 members. Are you gonna keep listening? If he does not exercise this right or if the required number of members is not yet present, he shall fix the next meeting on one of the following four working days: Well, the Chamber did, tomorrow. So it will be added to the agenda tomorrow in plenary. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand Mr Bonte's question concerning the letter. You just made the offer to distribute the letter. Once you have read and read the letter, Mr Bonte, you will find that the letter does not question the framework law, but is mainly about the implementing rules. That is why I suggest that you read the letter. We can suspend for five minutes. Then the question is about the essence. Then you can ask whether or not to suspend.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u229	Mr Yüksel, I made the proposal myself. I appreciate your help and your efforts, but I fear that Mr Bonte has the right to ask and that we are not in a position to decide. I don't know if it makes any sense. Out of politeness, I give you the floor, Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I support the request for a vote made by my colleague. It is indeed necessary to have all the clarifications. I would therefore like to have the letter quickly, before tomorrow's plenary session, so that we can have time to analyse it. I hope we still have it tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-plenair-ip140x.u231	The question is asked. In my view, we can still distribute this evening the letter from the European Commission, but the final conclusion is that the meeting is adjourned. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 24 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
