ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u1	Mr Minister, this question deals with a dossier that I have been following since your predecessor. In 2012, there was a commotion, because there were data cables built in Hasselt's prison through which the prisoners, although limited, could be on the internet. On my parliamentary question, Mrs Turtelboom replied to me at that time that the prisoners could not use it on the Internet or would not get free computers. There was a data cabling in every cell and virtual computers were rented. With this project, the prisoners could, for example, do e-learning through the VDAB. They should participate only after proof of their motivation. In fact, I remember asking Mrs Turtelboom what a virtual computer is. We were both a little bit in the dark in our presentation of that. The data cables were then constructed in Hasselt and cost 181 502 euros. Mrs Turtelboom pointed out that the project cost some money, but would also save us a lot of money. It was assumed that one could look at his legal file from prison, reducing the cost of transport and surveillance and reducing the risk of escape. In addition, the virtual computers could be rented. There was a sum against that. The project has existed since 2010 in the prisons of Tongeren, Ruiselede, Ypres, Bruges and Hoogstraten. There were also plans for its introduction in Antwerp and Leuven-Central. In the meantime, we have been a while and we have forgotten the file a little bit. Minister, how do you evaluate the Hasselt project now that it has been operational for several years? Since data cabling, can there be an effective reduction in other costs, such as transport and surveillance? How high were the costs for the project and after its introduction? What savings were therefore made in Hasselt? How do you evaluate the project in the other prisons where the data cabling had already been carried out, namely Tongeren, Ruiselede, Ypres, Bruges and Hoogstraten? What costs were saved there? How many inmates, per prison, actually hire a virtual computer? What costs do prisoners have to pay for the rental of such a virtual computer? For what purposes do they use these computers? In which prisons has the data cabling been carried out since then? What was the cost per prison before that? Are there any prisons that haven't worked with the system so far? If so, which and when do you plan to roll out the project there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u2	Mrs De Wit, standardisation is a key concept in the context of the implementation of detention in general and the preparation of social reintegration in particular. The inmate population is increasingly composed of digital natives, who are already familiar with the digitised world before their detention and will then return to it. The prison system cannot lag behind this trend and initiatives to bring IT into the detention environment are therefore a logical step. Against this background, the cabling of the Hasselt prison was provided. Numerous tests have been carried out with a view to making virtual PCs available, providing e-learning modules and access to the Internet. The test phase has made a lot of sense about the options that can be taken in the future. For example, they taught us that a digital platform that would be made available to the detainees could be an important step. The platform would allow prisoners to have access to applications, without having to work on separate PCs, which would then have to be installed and maintained. This will also provide an answer to a security-related problem, such as access to the Internet, or a similar problem, such as avoiding non-wishful sites being visited. The same tests have made it clear that the deployment of virtual PCs outside a digital platform is an expensive and complex matter. In the end, the project around PrisonCloud has grown, which is already available in three prisons. Through that platform, prisoners are offered digital possibilities within a secure environment, by managing the platform centrally, from outside the cell. Per prison, à la carte configurations can be developed. Through the platform, inmates have access to such a virtual PC. Access costs them 15 euros on a daily basis. Inmates can complete training via the platform, for example through a word processing program. Inmates may also request the installation of personal applications, insofar as they are acceptable from a legal and security point of view. Those applications are the responsibility of the inmate. In the other prisons we still work with the provision of PCs through a rental contract. That costs the prisoner 19 euros a month. Inmates can also have personal applications installed on those PCs. However, digital data exchange is not possible. If necessary in the context of training, training is provided in separate classrooms. The objective is ultimately to give all prisoners access to the digital platform. The first stage is, therefore, logical to provide all prisons with the necessary cabling. This project is currently in progress and will lead initially to prisoners having direct access to telephony. The yards in the prisons of Bruges and Lantin are finished. That's already happened in Turnhout. The prison of Nivelles is about to take place. In 2017, the works are planned in Andenne, Aarlen, Dendermonde, Dinant, Gent, Ypres, Ittre, Jamioulx, Leuven-Help, Leuven-Central, Oudenaarde and Tournai. In some establishments, such as Hasselt, the works to be carried out will be limited, such as the adaptation to the latest technical standards. The entire prison park should be completed by the end of 2018. As has already been said, the first practical application will be to make a telephony module available. The cabling network will then allow the roll-out of the digital platform. This avoids internal movements, implying a reduction in the workload of the monitoring staff. It also contributes to safety. Inmates will also be able to use this right in a much more autonomous way. The assessment of the concrete positive impact on the workload is still somewhat premature, as all prisons are in full swing in the transition of the Anders Werken project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u3	Minister, I understand that the transition is fully under way and that it is still difficult to draw conclusions. I therefore thank you for your reply and will continue to follow up the dossier. In 2019, the system should be placed everywhere. I may be able to ask a new question earlier than 2019; who knows if I will still be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u4	Question No 15214 by Mrs Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we remain a bit in the same vein. I am chairman of the Petitions Committee and it is there that the Ombudsman reports annually. In October 2016, after the Ombudsman had already done so, the Central Supervisory Board also presented its annual report to the Federal Parliament. It raised a number of concerns regarding telephone services in prisons. As I said, this was also one of the concerns raised in the Ombudsman's report. In the report, the Central Supervisory Board actually recommends making new technologies available. However, this raises a number of security issues. Since 2014, the FPS Justice has been talking about a public tender to modernise the telephone system in Belgian prisons and so it was also a pain for the Ombudsman to be able to reduce the costs for the detainees. Apparently, that process hasn't started yet. With the current situation in Belgium around the attacks and so on, it is of course important to ensure as much security as possible and to make it possible to detect potential threats, including in prisons. I therefore find it interesting to ask you a number of questions about this. My first question is whether consultations are foreseen between the FPS Justice and the current provider of telephone services in prisons, in connection with a reduction in the price. Secondly, what options did the FPS Justice consider upgrading the current telephone services? When will the FPS Justice launch the public procurement to modernise the telephone system in Belgian prisons? How does the FPS Justice plan to cooperate with available phone service providers in prisons to explore how security can be ensured when new technologies become available to the detainees? What options does the FPS provide in relation to telecommunications, security and supervision? That means four points, namely the integration of the telecommunications interference system, i.e. the mobile, the 2, 3, 4 and 5G and Wifi; the integration of the voice biometric system; the integration of lawful intercept system and options for the integration of the IMSI catcher. Why is the FPS Justice considering switching to a new telephony system, a solution that would mean additional workload for the FPS Justice, rather than using an independent supplier to manage the communication system? Is the operation of telecommunications services in prisons one of the tasks of the FPS Justice Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u6	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the current supplier of telephony in our penal systems is Teleo. The contract with Teleo was renewed pending the adoption of the new national specifications. The current contract did not include the possibility of a different tarification. In the criminal institutions Beveren, Leuze and Marche-en-Famenne use is made of the digital platform PrisonCloud, in which telephony was integrated. The new guide gives a great deal of attention to the tarification and market conformity of prices, which should mean a significant reduction in costs for detainees. The public tender is ready to be published. The file is currently under appeal by my colleague from the Budget. An upgrade from the current system to the most modern techniques is not possible. In the new public procurement, extra attention was paid to the new technologies. The possibility of extension to videoconferencing has already been provided for. A maintenance contract was also provided for the new telephony system to provide, if necessary, new technologies or additional safety systems. Telecommunications interference systems are no longer used within DG EPI. It used to be installed in two prisons, but that's not happening anymore. At present, the integration of a voice biometric system is not yet planned. The question of installing the IMSI-catcher has not been discussed so far and has not been discussed. It is important for my department to be able to act quickly and to have a flexible telephony system. Think of the various restrictions that must be imposed on all prisoners, a group of detainees or an individual inmate. Examples of this are the blacklist with phone numbers that cannot be called, as well as an extension of the daily number of calls to a group of numbers, and always making the phone number of the lawyer available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the new charge book is already ready. Do you have a visual on the timing? I didn't hear that, but I may have missed that between all the IT terminology. What do you have in mind? That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 15274 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 15293 has been postponed. Mrs De Wit, you will have the floor for your question under item 10 on the data cables in Hasselt prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u9	(...) I can see that I asked that question just now when I was given the floor for another question. Can I now ask my other question which is on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u11	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u12	Minister, we know that convicted perpetrators of certain crimes are registered in a separate DNA database today. If no DNA reference profile has yet been established for a convicted person, it is up to the police to take the reference language for that. When the convicted person is in prison, the reduction must be carried out by the police area of the territory where the prison is located. I do not need to explain to you that this means a lot of extra work for police areas with different prisons on their territory, and in the Kempen there are a few that are close together. For example, the police zone Noorderkempen takes more than 100 DNA samples annually from prisoners from the prisons of Merksplas, Root, Hoogstraten and for the time being Tilburg. The problem is that these samples can only be taken by the captains. The prisons do not seem to have digital devices for fingerprinting themselves. As a result, every prisoner, including that of Tilburg, must be picked up and taken to the police station, which takes up a lot of work and time. However, circular COL 21/2013 of the College of Attorneys General on DNA provides: "Where the purchase of a reference language is to take place on a convicted person deprived of his liberty, the penitentiary institutions must provide the necessary assistance to the police department concerned to enable the purchase, in particular by making available a suitable local space.' I come to my questions, Minister. Can this process not be made more efficient so that DNA collections can now take place in the prisons themselves? Can you tell me if this problem arises in every prison and police area in the same way as in the Kempen? For what reason can the purchases be carried out purely by the Chief Inspector? Do you have any idea how many DNA samples have taken place in recent years? In the meantime, how many personal data are in the DNA database in total? Finally, Minister, how many crimes could be solved by linking the unsub to this database? I'd like to get a breakdown a year. Thank you for your answer. I apologize to the services for changing the order of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u13	Mrs De Wit, your question is part of the cooperation between the administrative police and the prison system on the collection of samples for the DNA database and on fingerprints. It is true that the law demands that a DNA sample be taken from convicted persons and entered into the DNA database. According to law, this reduction can be made under duress. As with other police interventions in the context of privacy-related measures, it is necessary that the measure be carried out by or under the direction of a police chief inspector, as for example in the case of searches. Through my services within the prison system I learned that the problem is under control for most prisons and police areas. The problem you mentioned for prisoners in Tilburg has also been solved, since there are only 15 prisoners present in the Dutch institution today. This month, the last inmate will leave Tilburg. The solution to the problem is more likely to be found in the police than in the prisons. I'm declaring myself. The electronic fingerprints can be collected in the prisons. They do and they are available via Sidis Suite. Due to the recent amendment of the law, it is true that all convicted persons should be included in the DNA database and that this DNA sample may indeed only be taken by a chief inspector, and that this should be done in a police station. According to my information, the Home Affairs colleague is preparing an education/regulation that would allow the appropriate equipment to be placed in prisons, which would no longer be necessary. The prisons will, of course, be involved in this. I'll give you the figures you requested on the DNA database for convicts through the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That's good news. It is a practical solution to a problem that creates a lot of additional workload and inefficient operation. I'm happy with it and hope it can happen soon in prison. It'll leave some room for our police zones on the premises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u15	Question No 15313 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u16	Mrs. Van Cauter cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u17	Mr Minister, perhaps you could have answered this question yesterday, but we did not get that far when we discussed the policy paper. So I'm glad to be able to make them today. The government agreement explicitly included the introduction of a guaranteed service to the prison system, the security corps and the electronic surveillance centre in order to safeguard the basic rights of the detainees. According to the same government agreement, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unfair Treatment and the Protocol Agreement of the Sectoral Committee III Justice No. 351 of 19 April 2010. The modalities of the guaranteed service provision will be determined in consultation with the social partners. The introduction of this guaranteed service is once again necessary, now that it appears that Belgium will have to pay prisoners a great deal of compensation for the long-term strikes that French-speaking prisons experienced during a few months earlier this year. Moreover, the guaranteed service is essential to relieve the burden on the police. She has to replace the stabbing prison staff each time. Not only is this not one of its core tasks, but in the current times of terror, the police really have other priorities than to replace stabbing prison staff. Minister, what is the current state of play regarding the introduction of guaranteed services? Do you still consider it possible to introduce the guaranteed services in consultation with the social partners? Are there any other European countries outside Belgium where there is currently no guaranteed service in the prison system? To what extent is Protocol Agreement No. 351 are still well-respected by the prison trade unions? How many times was it violated this year and a wild strike broke out? How does that figure relate to the past few years? Finally, how many prisoners does the Belgian State currently have to pay compensation for strikes? What is the total cost of compensation? Does the Belgian State appeal against this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u18	Mrs De Wit, I can confirm that we have been consulting with the trade unions for a long time about guaranteed service in prisons. In the short term, I hope to be able to communicate about this in concrete terms. I believe it is possible to introduce minimum services in consultation with the social partners. That is also what the coalition agreement says. The modalities will be defined in consultation with the social partners. It is true that there is no guaranteed service in the prison system in Albania either. In general, the prison staff's unions respect protocol no. 351. What can be noted, however, is that one sometimes immediately makes a strike announcement without using the preliminary period of 30 days, which was registered in the proceedings. Usually, this falls under the heading of emotional strikes as a result of some kind of incident. In this way, the government is forced to negotiate formally more quickly, under the pressure of a strike commitment. I cannot give you specific figures at the moment, but I would like to deliver them in writing. In the period 2010 to 2016, the penitentiary administration dealt with the following number of dispute files: in 2010 216, in 2011 164, in 2012 128, in 2013 105, in 2014 149, in 2015 170 and in 2016 404. However, it is not possible to verify, for each of these files, within a short period of time, whether a possible conviction occurred after the subpoenas under a penalty payment. I would also like to provide you with that information in writing. The Belgian State has already been sentenced several times under a penalty payment. It concerns not only convictions in the context of strikes, but also other circumstances such as the transfer of interned persons to institutions of social defence, the provision of certain medical care, the prohibition of the transfer of a particular convicted person to another prison and the conviction that a convicted person's request for a mode of execution should nevertheless be sent to a criminal court, even if the prison administration considers that the sentenced person does not meet the time conditions laid down in the law. To date, as a result of the spring 2016 strike, a penalty payment amounting to 750 euros has been paid to an inmate. For all other detainees, judicial proceedings are still ongoing, so no payment of periodic penalty payments is definitively due.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to hear you say that the minimum service will soon be achieved. We've been working on that for a long time. It has been discussed since the first day I joined the Chamber of Representatives in 2010, and it has probably been discussed before. That is why I really hope that, as you say, trade unions will be able to succeed in the near future. However, you cannot blame me for perhaps being a little less optimistic about this than you are. It's not a hink-step-jump anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u20	Een's out there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u21	Something's being surplaced. I certainly hope you can make some kind of leap to take that hurdle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-07-54-commissie-ic548x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 15333 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh has been converted into a written question.
