ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we start our work with the e-Health Action Plan. We do not need a rapporteur since a report of the exchange will be provided to us via the full report. This will be done directly and translated in the following days. Members of Parliament who have introduced questions on the subject will of course be able to intervene first in the exchange that we will have after the presentation of the minister and, possibly, members of her cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, as agreed, we are holding a thematic meeting on eHealth today. As you know, it is about making optimal use of ICT to ensure the highest possible quality of care for the patient in the simplest and most efficient way possible for healthcare providers. This will also allow us to make better use of public funds. The twenty action points are based on three axes: multidisciplinary cooperation, the patient as copilot of his or her health and better processes through administrative simplification and less paperwork. In the future, caregivers can communicate more easily and quickly at the service of the patient and thus provide the most appropriate treatment. Double investigations are thus also avoided, the risk of errors is avoided and care providers will be able to organise their processes more efficiently. Especially for chronic patients suffering from different conditions at the same time, such smooth cooperation between all healthcare providers involved is essential. For example, patients can better follow, as a so-called copilot, how their health evolves and what they can do about it. Computerisation will further reduce administrative burdens. I do not intend to go over all 20 action points. You can find it on the new website www.plan-ehealth.be. All information relating to the eHealth Action Plan is gathered there. There is also an online form available to ask questions, but that will not be necessary for you since you can ask them here. We do go a little deeper into the three axes around which the Action Plan 2.0 was designed and the action points that are different from the first plan. First, there is multidisciplinary collaboration. With increasing life expectancy, our population is still increasing with older patients suffering from various chronic diseases. At the same time, care providers are becoming increasingly specialized and, as a result, only one patient is often in contact with multiple care providers. It is therefore essential that all providers who have a therapeutic relationship with the patient can collaborate well and easily exchange information. This is the only way to ensure that patients receive tailor-made continuous care. Caregivers outside the hospital, especially general practitioners and specialists, share information using a secure digital space, such as Vitalink, InterMed or BruSafe. At the moment, the following elements have already been published: the medication regimen, Summarized Electronic Health Record (Summarized Electronic Health Record) and the vaccines given to the patient. Information within the hospital is exchanged via hubs. These include operational unit reports, medical imaging reports, and patient exit letters. For out-of-hospital claimants, the computerized file will be published for home nursing and physiotherapy. The sharing of psychiatric records and the sharing of results for clinical laboratories are ongoing for hospitals. The aim is to make all patient-related information accessible through secure digital spaces for all care providers, provided that they have a therapeutic relationship with the patient and that the patient has given his or her informed consent. Thus, we create multidisciplinary care and ensure that stakeholders are well informed about the patient's recent state of health. This is especially important for patients with chronic disease. As part of the 2015-2019 action plan, we want to be able to define the structure of the electronic patient record (PID) for all healthcare professions. Hospitals play a crucial role in the eHealth landscape in achieving a number of objectives of the government agreement. They should, among other things, give the patient a central place in the care process, share information for multidisciplinary care, not only internally, but also with other hospitals and outpatient care providers. This link with eHealth is also important because of the reform of hospital funding, the quality of care, the delivery of data as a basis for scientific research and support for evidence-based co-cine, patient empowerment and so much more. The hospitals themselves face enormous challenges. Think, for example, of the rapid development of medical technology to respond to needs for care, as well as of a solution to the problem of administrative burdens combined with computerisation requirements through the integration of existing systems. In this respect, the integrated electronic patient file in hospitals needs to become the information corner of tomorrow's care landscape. We must now take steps to do this. In the other case, it has been calculated that by 2018 only 30% of hospitals will have the integrated electronic patient file. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the coalition agreement, the updated eHealth Action Plan includes a so-called accelerator programme or acceleration. In order for a hospital to play its full role in the multidisciplinary care landscape, it must have an integrated patient file per patient, a multidisciplinary file that collects all medical and paramedical data of the patient in a central place and makes it available within the hospital. This is important in areas such as emergency admissions, outpatient admissions, intensive care and operating quarters. That dossier shall include at least the medical file, the nursing file, the laboratory information system and links with the radiology information system, patient administration, tarification and invoicing. There is also the challenge of integration with the services of the eHealth platform and with the existing registration channels. I am talking, among other things, about the hubs, the metahubs, all registers offered by Healthdata.... and the possibility of data sharing with other systems. In consultation with stakeholders, a common strategy is being developed for the phased introduction of an integrated electronic patient file in hospitals. This includes, among other things, the definition of the integrated electronic patient file....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... An implementation strategy must, of course, be defined. Financial support and incentives for the introduction and use of the integrated electronic patient file in hospitals should also be reviewed and strengthened. The aim is really to establish a public-private partnership in order to enable a start to be made on electronic patient records in hospitals. We have decided in budgetary terms that the public authorities will bear a significant share of the costs. In the 2016 healthcare budget, an additional EUR 40 million was provided for the roll-out of the electronic patient file in hospitals, on top of the existing annual investment of EUR 16 million. Together with the existing funds, this amounts to 50% co-financing by the public authorities. The objective is and will continue to be that in 2018 all general hospitals are implementing the integrated electronic patient file. A second important axis is the strengthening of the role of the patient in the care landscape of tomorrow using electronic and digital applications. We call that patient empowerment. If anyone can give me a Dutch word for that, I'd be happy to take it with me. What are the findings of the investigation? A growing number of patients today consults doctor Google before going to the general practitioner or specialist. Some come up with numerous printed pages about the ailment they thought of themselves, via the doctor of Google, of course. It's been over five years, but I've been there. More and more patients also register a number of data themselves and ask for copies of reports and so on. More and more patients also want to consult their doctor digitally. In addition, they are increasingly asking for access to their medical information, transparent and comprehensive communication, and possibly more and more participation in the decisions to be taken on their health. In short, patients consciously take over part of the direction of their own care and health. Access to quality information is essential to support them in this. Two points of the plan have that empowerment of the patient as a specific objective. Firstly, Action Line 10 aimed at access to the file. This is always said in the context of the law on patients' rights, which dates back to 2002. Actually, the medical record belongs to the patient. Secondly, Action Line 19 aims to provide a framework for mobile applications. If the patient's file can be shared by the care providers who have a therapeutic relationship with the patient, then the file can also be shared with the patient himself. To make this possible, by the end of this legislature, we will create a secure consolidation platform that will bring together all the information about the patient from the various sources. The patient gets access to this secure platform through various digital channels, such as the traditional app on the personal computer, the ability of an app on a tablet, an app on a smartphone or a portal on the web. We have done so because we do not know what else is going to appear. On this platform, we will also be able to provide tools for clarifying the file, such as translating the file into an understandable language, and giving advice and clarification where necessary on specific elements of the file. In other words, translating the professional jargon that doctors are sometimes guilty of. This platform can also facilitate access to, and the smooth management of, for example, will decisions on organ donation or euthanasia. This means an important administrative simplification and an important improvement in privacy, as this will only be read in the file and will not have to lie around anywhere else. Last but not least, it is intended that the patient, or rather any citizen, will eventually be able to add information to his or her file on the platform. Of course, it will always be traceable who has added what information. The adaptation that might be most obvious in the updated Action Plan is the addition of a completely new part about mobile health. At the launch of the Action Plan, in 2013, it was considered that mobile health would not accelerate for the first six years, but by the start of this legislature it was clear that the market for mobile health applications would explode as it were. Today we are flooded with health applications. More and more people are walking around with devices to measure their heart rate or the number of steps, in short, to follow all kinds of health parameters. In other words, mHealth is already present everywhere in our daily lives. We must now be careful not to skip important steps. It can't be the story of Icarus. Icarus wanted to fly too high too fast, so the wax of his wings melted and he was back down faster than he went upstairs. This young domain requires a clear framework with guarantees for the quality of apps, devices and measurements, and for the privacy and security of personal and medical data. There is also a need for more scientific and practical evidence. We need to think about legal liability in the use of mobile applications. We also need to give mHealth a place in the current reimbursement model for caregivers. The objective can be summarised as follows: We go for better health and more comfort for our citizens, patients and users by offering effective and efficient care support through mHealth applications. We will create a framework to integrate mHealth applications legally, financially and organizationally into existing and new healthcare arrangements. The eHealth platform services will be made available on a mobile basis with special attention to privacy and security. The quality and accessibility of mHealth is supported. The user is placed at the care wheel via these mHealth applications. We need to implement a coordinated mHealth policy in Belgium with a flexible and administratively simple application of mHealth in all regions. In order to find an appropriate response to various issues, we will also work here on five topics for which we are launching pilot projects. A first pilot project involves strokes. I am thinking of using mHealth devices for an acute stroke with ultra-fast and specialized treatment, for home rehabilitation, for reintegration, for self-management and empowerment of the patient and his or her environment. There are already applications in hospitals, such as cardiovascular care, both risk management and care; we think of apps and smart apps related to fat content, weight, blood pressure and so on. About diabetes we think of telemonitoring, blood sugar levels that are transmitted, point-of-care testing and digital support of integrated care. In the field of mental health care, there is the possibility of telecare and telepsy therapy, follow-up of the adherence to therapy, think of medication-taking..... and the combination of this telecare with mobile teams. In connection with chronic pain, we think of the multidisciplinary approach to chronic pain in a specialised pain center, with patient monitoring in terms of exercise, sleep quality, pain intensity and of course also compliance. The third and final focus of the e-Health Action Plan is on process improvement. Our strategy is largely based on administrative simplification and the shift to low-paper care. We are also developing tools that will enable caregivers to harmonize their processes and organize them more effectively. The authorities will also have to review their processes. The different levels of power will all have to put in place a coherent e-health strategy, in collaboration with all actors on the ground. Administrative simplification is anchored in all the action points of the plan. Two concrete examples are given in the follow-up. As of January 1, 2017, electronic prescriptions of medicines will take precedence over paper prescriptions that will disappear in principle, except at the patient's explicit request. This year, we are working on the installation of the electronic prescription for physiotherapists and home nurses. Next year, laboratories and medical imaging will follow. From January 1, 2018, all general practitioners will be able to electronically transmit the care certificate given, so that the system of affixing a vignette on the certificate can finally disappear, put it in the mailbox of the mutuality and then wait for the refund due. We have planned a separate action plan for administrative simplification, bringing together all the initiatives that do not concern the other points. For example, there will be only one central file for persons with disabilities that will be accessible to all health professionals involved in the file. This principle of the only ounce will become a reality from April 2016. So that's very soon. Back to work will ensure that the process of professional reintegration of long-term patients is achievable. To this end, general practitioners, specialists, medical consultants, occupational physicians and possibly other practitioners will work together through a shared electronic file. Through e-Form, more and more procedures between providers, on the one hand, and between providers and administrations or mutualities, on the other, can be standardised, simplified and digitised. I have said it before: one has to simplify and then digitize, or one has to get into trouble. The eHealth Action Plan can only succeed if everyone contributes to achieving the concrete objectives in the interests of the patient. It cannot and should not become a voluntary bundling of ideas, with which everyone does what he or she wants. That is why, with the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, we are setting up a governance structure that supports and succeeds the further roll-out of the Action Plan. At the head comes a program manager, who will have to lead everything in the right direction. The establishment of the governance structure is a clear signal that we will continue to work hard with all governments in the coming years to make eHealth a success. We will continue to invest in legal support, infrastructure, data security, privacy protection, support and training for healthcare professionals. My fellow Members, the relevant ministers of the region, share the same view. The current state of affairs is the following. The program manager is selected and in function. The project leaders for all action points have been appointed and in function. The steering committee at the IKW eHealth level of the Interministerial Health Conference was established and meets monthly. The steering committee at federal level was also set up and also meets on a monthly basis. So much for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u3	Colleagues, after the state of play and the presentation of the objectives by the minister, I propose that you give the floor, first of all, to the members who have tabled a question on the subject. The members who wish to do so will then have the opportunity to intervene. I would point out that Mrs Jadin cannot be present with us to ask her question No 8875.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u4	Madam President, more specifically and to get into the heart of the matter, I will address a particular subject, but it is also related to the use of electronic channels and networks in the context of public health. Faced with the lack of young doctors in rural areas, medical video-consultation, as a tool that would facilitate the lives of health professionals, is one of the avenues explored by the different levels of power. Telemedicine can indeed be a plus in some cases, for example to facilitate consultation between doctors and data sharing. However, in the patient-physician relationship, the emphasis on human relationship must continue to be the priority. Physical or clinical contact between the patient and the physician remains essential. Minister, you stated that the video consultation file is currently under review. It also appears that you have already expressed your willingness to allow the reimbursement by INAMI of remote medical consultations as soon as next year. Could you tell us exactly what is happening and whether this information is correct? Has there ever been any consultation with healthcare professionals, in particular the GBO (Belgian Group of Omnipraticians) and patient associations in this context? Safeguards will undoubtedly be essential if this new tool is to develop. How do you plan to frame these video-consultations to ensure quality patient care? It is known that this tool cannot be "the" solution to the shortage of general practitioners, especially in rural areas. What initiatives are you planning to take to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u5	Madam Minister, although you touched on this subject for a moment, I still have a number of specific questions. The home nursing services, including the Wit-Gele Kruis, ask for a quick and mandatory reading of an eID at home care, which obliges the nurse to register the visits and the identity of the patients. They want to promote transparency and combat fraud. Last year, the figures of the RIZIV of December 2015 proved that the sector is highly sensitive to fraud. Asking questions shows that the services of the sickness funds are also in favour of such a method. We can only encourage actions to combat fraud and we must support those sectors which want to take steps themselves. The money that is won with this can immediately flow back to the sector to meet unmet needs. The home nursing services shall require that the procedures for imposing such an obligation be laid down immediately in the competent bodies. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? Are you taking steps to move the file forward? If yes, what steps will you take? Can the nursing services and the sickness funds count on you to quickly define the modalities? Not insignificant, the home nurses ask if a financial support is provided to implement the measure. Can the funds released by this form of anti-fraud be returned to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u6	We will complement these questions with other interventions. First of all, Mrs Fonck will speak because she has to go to other committees. He will succeed Messrs. Thiéry and Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u7	Madam Chair, thank you for giving me the floor now, because I have to go to the Social Affairs Committee to discuss a bill. Minister, thank you very much for your presentation. E-health and the computerisation of health topics bring, by far or near, an undeniable added value both for the patient and the quality of care – since the multidisciplinary approach is thus strengthened and complementary opinions can thus be sought – as well as for health professionals who benefit by this means from a relaxation of administrative procedures. More generally, it is our system of care that wins. That being said, we must remain attentive to several aspects. Over the past five years, the use and exchange of data has increased. Similarly, the number of patients giving consent has increased. Of course, the fundamental principles of privacy and patient protection as well as secure access to data must be guaranteed. Equally important to me is the quality and availability of the platform for care providers, whether they are doctors, nurses, physiotherapists or pharmacists. There have been some problems, about which I have asked you several times. I'd like to ask you a few questions about different issues. First of all, doctors and pharmacists have not always had access to this platform, sometimes for very bad reasons such as maintenance, practiced during working hours, or overload. As uses will increase, the risk of technical problems will also increase. It is now an opportunity to take stock of these possible flaws. I come to the importance of protecting patients and their medical records. Just over 2.5 million citizens have now given their consent to share cases with another health care provider. It is the thread that is given to them and it is the essential purpose for the patient. They do not give wider consent. Madam Minister, you spoke about big data in the health care sector and you said that it must be unlocked and exchanged between health and disability insurance funds, public authorities, scientists and industry. I realized that an agreement had recently been signed between INAMI and the Scientific Institute of Public Health. This agreement would concern healthdata.be's technical assistance service. It is my responsibility that, in this agreement, we use data identified by a pseudonym. This leads to fundamental questions since, for such data, it is always possible to reconstitute a personal card per patient, unlike the "agreed" data, which completely protects the patient. By way of comparison, aggregated data do not contain identifiers and are mixed in large numbers and "pseudonymized" data have an identifier and enable the patient's personal file to be reconstructed. Madam Minister, could you give me any information on the agreement reached between INAMI and ISSP? Can you give us a copy? It would seem that there is a question of pseudonymized data, whereas the aggregated data provide full protection for patients, their medical records and thus their privacy. I am not referring here to the 1992 law on the protection of personal data, which is very clear on this subject. In any case, it is extremely important that you provide us with information on this. If there is indeed a question of pseudonymized data, I plead for a revision of the above agreement so that the work can be carried out exclusively on the basis of aggregated data in order to ensure full protection of the patient's record and privacy. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the video consultations. They have advantages, but also limitations. One of the advantages lies in the fact that they complement a multidisciplinary approach, which will be all the more necessary tomorrow, since hospitals will logically no longer offer all services. In doing so, the video-consultations in which the patient could participate as part of a multidisciplinary approach will be of interest. However, imagining that a video-consultation replaces a consultation at the patient's bedside, it remains that the added value and the contribution of clinical examination is set aside. You know as well as I do, a patient, it's not just an anamnesis and complementary tests. The place of clinical examination is predominant. Diagnosis is often made on this occasion. In addition, in the absence of a patient's examination, there is also a risk that the patient will be given much more subsequent examinations than necessary. This kind of practice therefore has certain limitations, so, like other colleagues, I would like you to provide us with information on how you will set up and promote video-consultations. Minister, I would ask you to excuse me, but now I have to leave this chamber to go to another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for this overview of the progress of the eHealth project that you have given us. It is always interesting to know the progress of the projects. It seems to me that we were already busy with this eHealth project in 2010 and perhaps even before. Can you tell me how long this important project, which is obviously beginning to bear fruit, has occupied us? As far as it is possible to set a timetable, when do you think you will get the optimal performance of this project and achieve its optimal use? As I recall, there was a great deal of reluctance at the beginning of the implementation of this project. It seems to me that the general practitioners, mainly, had concerns about the standardization of the project. Now we realize that there is a craze, a willingness to go further in the use of the platform. Is it due, in your opinion, to the fact that attitudes are changing, certainly with young doctors who are more likely to work electronically? Or are there other reasons why this project is making a positive move? Do you have the percentage of caregivers who actually use the platform? Do you see a difference between general practitioners and specialist doctors? Next, we find that patients are very well documented for all the pathologies that concern them specifically. They tend to pick up information all over the place and a little bit anywhere. Is there an opportunity within the platform to look for information that would be more relevant, specifically for patients, and that would be monitored, so that patients do not have access to incorrect information? I agree with Mrs Fonck's concern about privacy. Is there currently a way to guarantee 100% that all the data on the platform will be used solely for medical or scientific purposes? I guess that's the case. What system will prevent spills? Has there ever been any? Can we guarantee today that privacy is maximum? Minister, I conclude with a more specific question. You have given us – and I thank you for this – a number of guidelines for use. Did I understand that the electronic prescription as such would be widespread for 2018? Or is that information that I misunderstood? This seems important to me in the context of administrative simplification but also in view of the difficulty some doctors sometimes have in retaining drug names or in facilitating the use of innovative medicines. Will this access to the electronic prescription be generalized? If so, from when? Will it be mandatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u9	Madam President, in turn, I would like to thank the Minister for the presentation of her e-Health plan and for all the elements she has addressed. In my remarks, I will return to two points on which I would like to have clarifications or to ask some additional questions. First of all, as we have seen and you have said, the action plan pays particular attention to the security and privacy of medical data when sharing information. As you also said, informed consent from the patient must be the foundation for the patient's entry into the system. This proactive gesture of the patient must be made with full knowledge of the matter, as it is obviously a sign of the patient's confidence in the system. According to the League of Health Services Users (LUSS), patients are currently too rarely properly informed about the scope of their consent. The LUSS requests, as announced, that the patient be confirmed by official mail. Minister, what, then, are the measures envisaged to allow for effective informed consent of patients? It is indeed essential that the patient know where and by whom his data will be shared. He must be able to consent or refuse with full knowledge of the facts. Without this, the system loses any notion of trust on which it must be based. It seems that this is not yet quite the case at the moment. Minister, what does your information show? The second element of my remarks concerns one of the added action points that relates to the mobile health (mHealth). Among the objectives set are to create a framework in the health sector to integrate mHealth applications in legal, financial and organisational terms into existing and new health care agreements. It also aims to make eHealth services available in mobile applications, to support the quality and accessibility of mHealth. For example, mHealth applications measure blood pressure. They also offer the patient the opportunity to record medical data or to be taken care of as part of telemedicine via the Internet. The European Commission has called for their development. If we can support it, it must, in our view, take place solely with the aim of improving the health of patients. These applications should not, of course, replace consultation with health professionals. It is essential to put in place all the beacons to protect patients through a clear legal framework. Minister, what is the status of the legal analysis of this issue? What key questions need to be answered in this context? Are you considering the reimbursement of mobile application requirements? I'm thinking telemedicine. How do you envisage the development of this one? Will budgets be made available? Is there any reflection on how these applications will be reimbursed and the medical follow-up that will be carried out in the context of the nomenclature reform? I know there were many questions; I thank you in advance for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. I also have a number of questions, but some of them have already been asked by my fellow Members. I am referring, among other things, to Mr Thiéry's question about the percentage of general practitioners, specialists and pharmacists who are already using the platform. It also seems important to me to look at the evolution of recent years, so that the interest and use of eHealth can be mapped out by the healthcare professionals. The more people use the platform, the more important the availability becomes. Mrs Fonck has already pointed out that there are complaints in the field about the fact that the platform is sometimes not available. Do you have any figures on that? This is not just about the eHealth platform itself, but also about the healthcare provider's computer, the mutualities, the Internet and so on. It's a whole chain that has to work to make the system workable. Of course, the system works only as well as the weakest link in the chain. Do you have data on the effective availability of the eHealth platform? Patients will have direct access to their personal health record. This is of course extremely important, but it also places us in a number of dilemmas. Is the information made available immediately, for example, or only after a few days? In this way, the patient has had time to consult with the doctor when it comes to very sensitive results regarding a study of, for example, cancer. Will the therapeutic exception, as we know it today, simply be digitized or are we looking at the whole concept again? Before the doctor can share the information from the electronic medical record with other healthcare professionals, the patient must give his consent. We know that some 2.7 million patients have given this consent at the moment, but there is, of course, a large group that has not yet done so. I have two questions about this. Are doctors supported, because I believe that doctors are an important factor in convincing or possibly influencing the patient positively or negatively when giving his consent? Are they trained to transfer the importance of that consent to the patient? If the patient has not given consent and the person concerned arrives at the emergency service, can the patient's data be reviewed? I think that might be important, because that information can make the difference between life and death. In addition, Sumehr and the medication schedule are very useful tools in healthcare, but that only applies if they are kept up-to-date. A patient is seen by many care providers. The question is who is responsible for keeping track of the medication schedule, for example. If non-systematic tracking of a Sumehr or medication schedule leads to a medical error, who is responsible? Is that under legal review? Are there still a lot of legislative work to be done in this area in order to fully cover that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. What you brought today is an extremely positive story. In the previous legislature, I said that I was somewhat hungry about the dynamics of this dossier. In your press release earlier, you said that a high-speed train is now running by, and that is what I feel when I see the whole package of measures. The coalition agreement was also ambitious in that respect, because we had envisaged that we would take several steps in this area by 2018. With the timing you are presenting today, I think you are very well on schedule. I can only congratulate you on the efforts that have been made in this area. Much remains to be done, of course, and you have also announced that. I have three brief questions about some of the things that I am not quite clear about. Some parts are also very technical. Firstly, in the hospital environment we also wonder what is still to be expected. This week I asked our local hospital which are today's greatest needs and with which they face the most problems in the functioning of the hospital. In reply, I get that most of the problems occur in the emergency department, because that department has only a very limited view of the patient's home medication. If the patient has nothing on paper about this and if the partner or the family does not know anything about it, the aid workers do not have that information. Another problem arises if the patient concerned has never been in the emergency department before, because then there is no history of that patient. It is said that this situation is common. I also understand that you will take the necessary action and that there will be a structure. You are talking about the Sumehrs, where it will be very important that the quality of those files is guaranteed. I understand that also general practitioners who will have to recharge and that these will be some kind of summaries that they will be able to consult. That quality is therefore also very important. What exactly is the timing there? After all, I am told that there is a great need for this today. Secondly, Madam Minister, the efforts you are making today in the context of the integrated electronic patient file are also important. I see the hospitals are in the middle of this integration. That's not easy, it's about a lot of money and your 50% support is already a lot. Besides, the supply on the market isn't that big either. In this sense, everyone in a hospital must support the system today, including the doctors; everyone must want to work well with it. Such a process therefore requires some guidance. At the level of hospitals this is good today, there is well directed and supervised. However, the system is only as strong as the weakest link. The input, the information in the electronic patient file, will have to come mainly from the doctors. In addition to all subsidies and financial incentives, will there be additional incentives so that doctors can make good input? We see today in the hospital that there is still quite a lot of work going on with Word, with the data being stored. That is crucial information, which will also be needed in an SPD. In addition to the financial incentives, are there incentives for doctors to participate to submit information to the system? A third point has already been raised by Mr Somers. We have already discussed the pharmaceutical dossier a number of times in committee. I remember you saying last year in response to a question that 40% was connected, but that there were software problems and that people were busy rolling out. Normally, it should be almost rolled out by the beginning of 2016. Is this right? Has it been rolled out in almost all the pharmacies? What is the state of play with regard to the pharmaceutical file shared? Those are three small questions, but keep up the good work, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u12	Madam Minister, I do not have a specific question, but a comment. There will be a lot of questions about collecting and clustering data and privacy. Who has access to the data and who exactly can do what with it? I would therefore like to refer to the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions. The next file on which, I think, the first hearing will take place tomorrow concerns big data in healthcare. There is nothing to prevent us from discussing this subject here, but there too the discussion will be discussed in depth and in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u13	This will take place in the Scientific and Technological Advice Committee, which meets once a week, on noon. Members of the Commission may also participate in this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u14	Madam President, are we certainly going to look at the reports on the sessions, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u15	Yes. This committee is open to all members of the House who wish to attend. Records and reports are also published.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I will be very brief. Excuse me, but I was outside the committee room on the phone. If I tell you something stupid right now, you tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u18	Indeed, Madam Secretary, one has to pay attention to going outside. I just want to ask if you could pay attention to launching pilot projects, including the pilot projects on short-term hospitalization, which will start soon. In practice, I notice that there is a great need to realize eHealth in a pilot project without additional resources. I haven't heard everything, but I understand that very well. I support you in that regard too. However, when pilot projects are launched, the partners will face costs which they do not consider directly possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u19	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the eHealth platform has progressed after having had difficult beginnings, not gaining all the confidence required and suffering from governance problems. From now on, the various partners - Walloon, Flemish and Brussels networks, healthcare providers, players in the platform, etc. - seem to trust each other more. But we do not live in a world of Bisounours. That's why I'm sure there are still obstacles. What are the difficulties that are being given special attention in order to develop the system properly? On the other hand, I would like to report a personal experience. I do not get sick often, but no doctor has told me that there is a computerized medical record about me or that data is transmitted and collected, nor has he asked me for permission to share such information with a specialist or the attending physician. No one has sought or received my informed consent. I don't know if any information is circulating. Any citizen is probably confronted with such a situation. Maybe there'll be people to talk about it. However, two or three years ago, when I asked a specialist doctor about eHealth and the exchange of information, he was unable to answer me about this procedure. Things are changing, but I think there is also particular attention to be paid to this so that there are proactive approaches wherever possible to make patients aware, to enable them to create these files and exchange data. I am also concerned about access to information when you are in an emergency room or in a consultation where nothing has been planned. It is therefore important that there is consent of the patient to provide access to the patient's record for emergency situations. With regard to the informed consent to be given by the patient, I agree with Mr. Senesael's question. It is an interesting step that makes the patient and the doctor aware of what they have committed themselves to, but in this desire to have a file that will be shared for the patient's health in general, for the disabled person, for whom a series of cases will no longer have to be re-introduced, and for the reintegration of long-term patients. There will be actors with differentiated statutes and access to information. Is it clear that in this sharing of data, the occupational doctor, the doctor-counsel, the social security doctor do not have the same access as the general practitioner or another doctor? It is important to clarify that as well. With regard to the generalization of computers during consultations, the doctor who taps on a keyboard and the relational dimension with the patient, the eyes in the eyes, is increasingly seen taking a blow. However, it is known that 70% of the success of a consultation is the ability to establish a relationship and verify how the patient understands the information. There is a real awareness work for health professionals to do so that we don't believe that because we filled the boxes in the computer, we treated the person, and she knows what's happening to him. The training programmes announced will have to take this dimension into account. Madam Minister, before you answer, Mrs Jiroflée wishes to add something.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u20	Madam President, I do not want to add anything. I would like to ask the Minister if my answer could come first, since I have to vote in the Committee on Justice. Moreover, my colleague is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u21	Madam Minister, I give the floor to Mr Thiéry for a brief statement; then you can answer with Mrs Jiroflé's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u22	Madam Minister, I have a very general supplementary question: in the long run, will the eHealth system be mandatory or will it remain optional?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u23	Mrs Jiroflée, the mandatory eID reading, which was requested, among other things, by the White Cross and the home nurse, allows them to process immediately the data on the performance of their home nurses. At the same time, as you say, it is a measure that avoids fraud. However, I must also say that the majority of home nurses do their job fairly. After the particle that frauds, we use all our resources. However, the modalities must be set out quickly. The technical solution is defined in consultation with the nursing services. Implementation has started. As far as resources are concerned, if savings are made, this can be discussed if we really find that there is less abuse. We already have a good idea of the amount of abuse and we have also made recoveries. As far as that is concerned, I do not want to avoid the discussion. However, I am certainly not going to grant drawing rights in advance. If resources are handled more efficiently in the sector, then I am open to the discussion about further supporting the sector with smart measures to avoid fraud, to obtain better pricing and so on. I'm open to that, but it might be a little premature now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I didn't mean to say there was a lot of fraud in home care. On the contrary, I agree with you that the vast majority may be doing its job perfectly. However, I once went out with a mutuality monitoring service, and I had great eyes when I saw what was possible. The meshes of the net are sometimes very large. Thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased that, should this be possible in the future, this discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u25	Mr. Blanchart asked about telemedicine and the possibility of making video-consultations. Pilot projects can be planned in five areas already developed. Video consultation is under consideration. This will be a possibility, but without replacing physician consultation, which would be impossible. The combination of the two will allow for better advice and consultation. Mr Blanchart and Mr Senesael asked the question of the budget. We're looking for him. As always with the pilot projects, we are trying to find the means that are not provided for in the original budget. On the issue of the shortage of general practitioners in rural areas, following the sixth reform of the State, Impulseo funds are managed by the Regions. In Wallonia, for example, Maxime Prévot took initiatives on Impulseo funds to encourage young general practitioners to settle in an area in need. Ms. Fonck again questioned the big data after referring to the issue of consent. I recall that the latter makes it possible to share the patient's medical data. The medical specialists and the general practitioner to whom the patient has given his or her confidence are concerned. Big data provides for the exchange of pseudonymized or aggregated data. In both cases, it is impossible to identify patients. What exactly is this? D a convention between IPPH and INAMI to allow the exchange of data. The RIZIV is given access to data from the Scientific Institute of Public Health, to data from healthdata.be, which have been pseudonymized. So one can see if those data come from generalists or hospitals, but one can never find out about the patient. The specific patient data has been extracted. For example, it is possible to find out how many diabetics there are today, how much the increase in the number of diabetics is and what policies should be put in place to deal, for example, with the explosion of type 2 diabetes in the population. Are you okay or do you need a tooth? However, the patient will never be traceable. One will know who generated the data, for example diabetics, internists or general practitioners, but one will never be able to identify the patient. This is very important for those involved. For every step we take, we need the agreement of the Privacy Commission. The agreement of the Privacy Commission was also requested and obtained for this purpose. Mr. Thiéry, yes, this project was a source of reluctance at the beginning. It is understandable, we come back from a distance, from a system of records and doctors who had time to look patients in the eye for the time it took to find these records. I remember that a general practitioner had unfortunately, for health reasons, had to stop his activities, and that he had handed me bags with cards. When I came home with these cards, I almost went crazy because they weren't even listed alphabetically. I couldn't understand what this was about. If we had to build an electronic record with this data! That happened in the 1980s. At first, it wasn't easy. Yes, the doctor had a lot of time to look the patient in the eye and vice versa. The first thing he did when the patient came in was looking for his card. It took almost a quarter of an hour already. I understand, of course, your concern. This is to facilitate the work of physicians and to gather all the information needed to avoid something important. Individual contact with the patient, empathy, the little word of beginning and end will not change. It is not because we switch to computerization that doctors will be transformed into robots. Never! Mr Thiéry, I still give you the important and impressive figures concerning the number of care providers who are already in the active project. However, in examining them, you must be told that a care provider can be both a general practitioner and a hospital. Respect for privacy is very important. This is an ongoing concern in what we are doing and we are seeking the advice of the Privacy Commission. So far, we have not encountered any difficulties. With regard to the electronic requirement, it will be mandatory as of 1 January 2018. We still have time. Mr. Senesael, the principle of informed consent is already on the record. When informed consent has not been given, nothing appears in the file and there is no access. When informed consent has been given, it is there. But at every moment, it is possible to change your mind and withdraw your consent, which is then erased from the file. Also, I think it would be dangerous to create a blur by issuing an additional attestation to the patient that he gave his informed consent while, the following week, he may withdraw it. The evidence is in the patient's file and that's what I think is the simplest. It's the only place it's supposed to be. No further certification is required if privacy is to be protected. Telemedicine and video will never replace clinical examination. It's obvious. We first have the anamnesis and then the clinical examination. Try to find the diagnosis before prescribing the cure. These are four steps necessary to treat a patient. Telemedicine is always a plus. It is always possible to add testimony of complaint in this way, as a corollary to the consultation, but this will not replace the doctor's intervention. Mrs Somers, you have asked a question about the use of most eHealth services. We are seeing an upward trend in this area. Not only doctors and pharmacists, but also more and more other healthcare professions use these services. Gradually, the use of the eHealth platform is growing. I'll show you how many transactions there are now. There are still childhood diseases, but less and less. We must continue to work on this. In 2015, all basic services of the eHealth platform were at least 99.9 % available. However, if there are so many actions, even 0.1 % is still very disturbing for some people. Therefore, a business continuity plan was developed jointly by the eHealth services and the eHealth platform, which is the name they have given to it, which should further improve the availability of basic services and eHealth services. They give priority to what they call the most critical services. These are the services where they detect most childhood diseases. An example of this is the fact that a huge number of pharmacists check the patient's insurability on a daily basis. That is, of course, important, because they determine the rate for the drugs delivered on the basis of the insurability. If they don't get an answer right away, they can't move forward, because then they don't know what to charge the patient for the medication. This situation is similar to a temporary breakdown at Banksys, while the patient only has his payment card on him. Everyone panics and can't go on. This is because electronic means have been increasingly used. So first we are dealing with the most critical performance. Of course, it is not surprising that this is at the pharmacists, because they are the biggest users of the platform. They stand out with their heads and shoulders. With them, the children's diseases come first because of the frequent use of the platform. Then there's the personal health record. We are defining the legal framework, which should be done in consultation with patient organisations and with the representatives of healthcare providers. The same applies to the therapeutic exception. The personal notes can be kept electronically. Today, however, it is not intended to share it. The right of access is retained, but through an exceptional, separate procedure. There will therefore be a right of access for the patient, but since some personal data may have a negative effect on the patient, it is up to the doctor to determine whether he shares that data. What is important is how the doctors will deal with this; the last word has not yet been said about it. Sharing information from the electronic medical record is only possible if the doctor has given his consent. What, however, is the case with emergency shots? As Mrs Gerkens said, there are probably personal data in circulation without anyone knowing. In case of an emergency, a healthcare professional will have access to medical data without prior consent. It's a special procedure. We call that the break-the-glass procedure. It is similar to the procedure in the Church, where in need, anyone can baptize. I'm not Catholic, but I do know a few things. In fact, this procedure is necessary, because if a patient is brought into the emergency room after an accident, one can hope that an attempt is made to find out everything about him or her, to know what one should and should not do. Training and support is provided for healthcare providers, especially with regard to informed consent. Folders were sent to everyone. Mrs. Gerkens, all hospitals are in operability. We also sent all the information, including small films, to doctors. It is possible that some doctors refuse to say that. That is why we have also made patient awareness. Actually, it's the patient who decides. There is growing evidence that informed consent is being given. However, it is possible that your doctor has never told you about it, perhaps for lack of interest. We have to ask him. Mrs Muylle, as far as the urgency is concerned, the breaking-the-glass procedure will indeed prevent unpleasant situations. It's very annoying when the emergency department doesn't know what medication the patient is taking at home, what treatments he's undergoing, what underlying diseases are present or what his background isn't. Patients arriving in the emergency room are not always accompanied. Because of emotion because they end up in the emergency room, many patients will forget certain things or provide false information. It is of course important that one can read the patient's Sumehr. A framework has been created for this, but the question is how it is properly implemented. Through the Medicomut we have given support to the doctors who take the time to fill in the Sumehr of their patients. One doctor's syndicate was more inquiring than the other, but there was actually a consensus on this. There is now a support for filling in the Sumehr. As regards the general practitioner's training which is still needed, some doctors are unable to attend further training. This is why the RIZIV has provided EUR 1 million of co-financing to go to general practitioners and doctors and to carry out workshops, information, information and training in a very practical way. This is our backup. Almost all officials have a pharmaceutical file, but not yet for all patients. This has been started for patients with polydrugs, patients who have to come back the most, who go in and out of hospitals and then get other medications home with them. They started this difficult group and then they're going to extend it to all patients. It is difficult to speak of a pharmaceutical dossier in people who only have to get medication once a year, but for example, for older people who go from one consultation to another and from one hospital to another, this is important. [[I also have a number of figures, Madam President.]] Or would you rather take a second lap?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u26	Do any of them want to take part in a second round? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u27	I am aware that many figures have been presented here. And when there are too many, it becomes difficult to remember. We have taken stock of the evolution of use since 2014 and we notice that all curves are rising, which is quite special. At the top are the doctors who actively use the hub and there we see a multiplication factor of 12.6. The number of electronic regulations delivered to pharmacists per day is 17 000. The informed consent now amounts to 2.8 million. You will notice that on 1 February 2016 there were 2.4 million authorisations. So there are about 200 000 authorisations a week, which is huge. If that curve keeps going up like that, then... so we're at a quarter of our population now. Of the 11 million citizens, about 25% have already given the informed consent. As you know, the number of applications for Chapter 4 concerns the medicines for which doctors used to have two closets of booklets and which they almost went mad. All systems were tried out, ranging from collating all the PPIs to an alphabetical ranking. I've tried all the systems myself, but none of the systems provided a lasting order. In that respect, I stopped too early, because now there are 17 786 electronic applications per month. Then we see the figures of the number of pharmacists using a global pharmaceutical dossier. Also there we see a multiplication by almost three. Number of transactions on the eHealth platform: times 2,3. Also for the number of online consultations of the insurability we see a huge multiplication. There is also the use of the eHealthBox. A graph sometimes says more than 1 700 digits. The graph does prove that the tgv has left. I'm gonna give you a few more marks. In January, the number of docs published in hubs amounted to 38 million, the number of Sumehrs published per month was 472 000 and the number of certificates issued for healthcare providers was 27 147. You know that one hospital stands for one certificate. One single doctor is also one certificate. Timestamping: 9 million. Consultations for the tarification by general practitioners: 1 000 024. All services had an availability of 99.9 %. We must remain ambitious, so we cannot accept that 0.1 %. Hence the establishment within the services. Today's state of affairs: 2.8 million informed consents. At this rate, the figure is 200 000 per week. I think it's going the right way. I started with 300 000. When I heard the target of 2.7 million on 1 January, I scratched my hair once. I have already mentioned the state of play of the Inter-Ministerial Conference: the project leaders, the programme manager, the telematics premium for having the certified software package and the use of e-health services. The definition for the integrated electronic patient file for hospitals is in the final phase. Yesterday there was another meeting, in which we are at a crossroads of consensus. There is also an agreement on the standardization of the medication scheme in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. One is not always near the place where one lives when one has to go to a hospital. Just think of the fact that there are a lot of hospitals in Brussels, where people from the Flemish Rand go and vice versa. We must ensure that this is done in a uniform manner. The agreement on improving end-to-end availability of eHealth services between pharmacists, mutualities and the eHealth platform is already in progress. In collaboration with Digital Belgium, four working groups were started on mobile health. In this year's, by the way, major pipeline are the following elements. The electronic patient file in hospitals will be defined in the first two quarters of this year. Each hospital provides a plan of action for its implementation. The financing model for the integrated electronic patient file is ready. With regard to the electronic regulation, I can inform you that any official can currently process electronic regulations. Dentists can also prescribe electronically. It was also our goal to achieve this in the first half of this year. In the second half of this year we will be discussing the adaptation of the barcode to the rules and the regulation of the paper regulation. The regulations now contain two barcodes: a barcode with the doctor's RIZIV number and the RID barcode, which is the identification of the electronic prescription itself, which makes it possible to trace that prescription. The barcode with the doctor's RIZIV number will no longer be mentioned. I have already discussed the extension to non-medical regulations; this is about nursing and kine. The electronic prescription shall be valid without a requirement on paper. We certainly do not want a duplication of effort, so we do not want both an electronic regulation and a paper rule, which contains exactly the same thing. Action 5 is the sharing of data through the system of hubs and metahubs. That is also planned for the second part of this year. It concerns the connection of extramural laboratories to the hubs and metahubs, so that the results of these extramural laboratories can also be shared electronically. Action Line 10, the patient's access to the data in the personal health record. This must also be achieved in the first half of this year. For services providing access to the patient, it becomes technically possible for a representative or a trusted person to be able to access the patient's data. Parents should also be able to access their children's data. There is a need for a reference framework for access management, for accessing and supplementing data by the patient, the trusted person or the parent. By the way, this is traceable, so that not everyone has access to the data. Action Line 12, training and ICT support for healthcare providers. This is planned for the first half of this year. This includes the coordination of helpdesks and helplines. There will be a consultation group on coordination, arrangements and uniform communication in the eHealth platform. In the second half of this year a digital sandbox will be created, a training platform for caregivers. This gives them the opportunity to practice without having to fear that they are turning the whole system into the soup. The unique window for people with disabilities will be called Handicare. This is a common file of my services and the services of the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities. We will be proposing this together this week. Disability will be in production in April. Action point 16, traceability of implants and medicinal products. This is about planning the introduction of traceability of medicines with international standards. This will be similar to the food agency. In the case of food, we are talking about medicines. We do not want to wait, so to speak, for another dioxin crisis to be introduced. Action Line 17, generalised use of the eHealthBox and the data of the care providers. This is also planned for the first two quarters of this year. It is a secure electronic mailbox for healthcare providers. The eHealthBox is expanded with an address book, so that you do not send secure data to someone's private e-mail address, which may also show the rest of the family. So that data can be sent to a secure mailbox of the healthcare actor. Each hospital uses the eHealthBox to communicate, including with external or outpatient partners. There will also be a unique point of contact for healthcare actors in production. On Action Line 19, mobile health, we have already talked about it in five use cases. As regards Action Line 20, governance, roll-out and monitoring, the governance structure is 100% operational. eHealth monitoring is defined and rolled out for projects, infrastructure and services. 2016 will really be a key year for implementation on the ground. The possibilities will continue to increase. So 2016 is an exciting year. We should succeed in achieving our goals in 2018. I hope you realize that we have not been in a hammock.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u28	I see that Mr Thiéry and Mr Janssens wish to speak. Nice collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u29	Madam Minister, to make sure that I have understood the figures correctly, we are talking about 4 billion transactions per year on eHealth platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u30	That's 400 per Belgian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u31	That's about all possible transactions, it's the sum of all movements that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u32	All transactions between doctors, care providers, etc. are also discussed. So it's not just about the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u33	Each movement on the eHealth platform leaves a trace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u34	As far as users are concerned, you said, Madam Minister, that they were doctors, pharmacists, but also institutions. You've talked about 27,000 users, but can you tell me about a total of how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u35	That's almost 25%. He tells me there's 100,000. We've exceeded 25%. This is an image. We know that all hospitals are taken over, but there are not many, because it is "one user per hospital". But there are many more treating doctors or specialists. It gives a distorted picture of the volume of work that is already possible, because a hospital is only one user.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u36	I have one last question. You speak of the mandatory nature. I have not received a clear answer to the question from when users are required to use the electronic prescription? Is that the intention or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u37	The electronic prescription will be mandatory from 1 January 2018. For some things, however, we cannot make use of it. For some things, we can't force it if they don't want to get in. Home care has committed itself to making use of it for the whole group. At first, we talked about informed consent and the choice to do so by opt in or opt out. This discussion is now over. Opt-in membership is a completely voluntary choice that needs to be trusted in caregivers before giving informed consent. This was the subject of a whole debate in committee because this proposal met with little enthusiasm. Now it's almost exponential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u38	It cannot be made mandatory, the person can refuse an exchange of data via the medical file, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u39	All the hospitals got on the train, as well as all the doctors. All representatives of the doctors, in any case, gave their opinion, as well as the nurses. Little by little, we are progressing. That's why we had to find money to develop more information, to have more opportunities to train. When it's new, it's normal for there to be reluctance. Trust must be built to settle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic342x.u40	Thank you for the exchange of views.
