ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u1	Minister, on 3 May the departure hall of Brussels National Airport was reopened. Between my question and today, things have already changed, but at that time there were huge queues. According to police sources, these were due to poor planning and an electricity span. According to the airport police, she is only responsible for patrols and checks on cars. The other control tasks have been taken over by security firms, but their agents would have been poorly briefed. Besides, the team would be understaffed. As a result, one of the control units could not open, leaving a number of passengers missing their flight. Your cabinet has already indicated in the press that the current way of working and checking is untenable. Moreover, the long queues do not in any way provide an increased sense of safety. As has been said, adjustments have been made in the meantime and the risk of the check-in has therefore been reduced again. However, I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. The additional security measures have been put in place to increase safety effectively. Do you agree with me, as you said in the press earlier, that they are ultimately counterproductive? What alternatives are you considering in the long term? What is the cost of the higher security of the national airport so far? Would it not be more useful to use the manpower and resources on the ground? Finally, how does the communication and coordination between the police, the security company and the airport operator proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u2	Mr Top, I will answer your question, but I am a little confused. Your first question on the agenda is question No. 10449 on the ground plans of the airport of Zaventem. However, I can easily answer your question from the loose wrist. Your question dates from the first day and a half after the airport has returned to 80 % of its capacity. There were indeed unacceptable queues. What happened? We have opted to open the airport very quickly again, first at 20% to 25% of the capacity. We have been given the cooperation of the trade unions under certain conditions. I understand very well the traumatic circumstances, where people have to get back to their places of work quickly where they were confronted with all these things. The trade unions have therefore gone along with this, but have asked for very serious safety measures, which I understand in the initial period. At that time, however, I realized that we would not be able to hold it if the airport were to return to its full capacity, not in that way. We could offer the same level of safety, but not the same method of achieving that safety. A good month after the attacks, which is very fast to my senses, the airport was again able to run at 80% of its capacity to receive passengers. The airport operator thought it would be more graded. On Sunday there was the solemn reopening and from Monday the airport clearly went full charge again. The safety methods were not adapted for this purpose. We then intensively negotiated with the trade unions on Monday and Tuesday to move to a different methodology, whereby not everyone is systematically controlled, but only a limited number of people. I don't know if you've already been to the airport, but there are policemen there who send a certain person to the machine at some point to check his or her luggage. This is done on the basis of three criteria. The first criterion is suspicious behavior. That makes a lot of sense, I guess. The second criterion is that the police, based on their expertise, decide who they still control. I didn't give you any details about that. Thirdly, there is a check at random. That means everyone has a chance to be checked out. Not everyone gets checked out, but everyone has the chance to be checked out. Even the 85-year-old grandmother, as Marc Descheemaecker said, has a chance to be screened. What does the control consist of? It is the same as what existed before: identity or passport control, ticket control and baggage scanning by the scanner. So that is the prescreening, which still happens in a limited number of cases. I have heard that last Sunday was a top day, with the largest number of travellers since 22 March. Everything went unwrinked back then. That control is no longer an obstacle today. Will that damage the airport? Personally, I think that by the fact that it was only chaos for a day and a half, let's call a cat a cat, the airport will not suffer any damage. Of course, some travelers said they wouldn't come anymore. However, now that the situation has normalized, I believe that travellers will see which method is the fastest for them. They do not necessarily go to Schiphol or Lille when they see that the problems in that area have been solved in Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u3	Thank you for the answer. I have a point of criticism. This was the first few days. It was clear that Monday and Tuesday, as you also mentioned, was a chaos. The idea of increasing security with additional checks at the entrance has rather created a target. Luckily, that was fixed. It would have been better to have agreed earlier in view of the new influx of passengers. You referred to an airport manager who was critical of the operation in an interview. I noticed that and hence my demand for communication and coordination with the operator. That must be well-spoken in the future. It is very confusing when certain people suddenly make rather critical statements in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u4	I do not think that many critical statements have been made by the airport manager. Tripartite consultations were held all the time between the airport manager, the trade unions and us. We were on the same wavelength all the time. The fact that the situation was manifest for a day and a half, however, has helped to reach a settlement that is now acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u5	It is dangerous to shoot at the man who is not here, but if I remember correctly Mr Descheemaecker spoke in the interview on profiling, screening of persons and no longer subjecting everyone to control. That was actually during the first two days. My comment is not a criticism to you, but he should not say that in an interview after it has already been established. He had better have indicated in advance that this working method would have been a better option at the triangle meeting. I have one last question. The way in which control is now carried out remains so in the long term or do you expect anything to change that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u6	In the long run, we're all dead. However, we are now looking at how we can use even more technology to reduce manpower. The measure whereby police officers are already deployed at the roundabout has also been withdrawn. All measures must also be considered in the light of the psychosis of the first days, which is a different situation. We also need to do some massaging. In the future, therefore, some of this will still be covered by technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u7	Mr President, Minister, we heard from the press that Abdelhamid Abaaoud's laptop contained plans and drawings from Zaventem airport. These were found by the Greek police in January 2015 when they invaded two apartments in Athens that were used by the person concerned. This information was forwarded to the Belgian authorities. Over the last few months, I have repeatedly called for such information to be removed from administrative documents and from public sites, both in this committee and in other committees, including the Committee on Defence. To date, I have received few responsible answers. The implementation of the Buildings Regie der Belge project to set up a classification and control system for this purpose does not seem to be complete either. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. What steps will you take to increase cyber security? Can you confirm that the information was transmitted to our country by the Greek authorities? If so, how can you justify that no additional security measures were taken at the airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u8	Mr President, Mr Top, you should look at the sites of all airports around the world. Each airport publishes a ground plan of the public section with the check-ins etc. I won't expose the investigation, but what was found on that computer was open source information. Each airport shows where to go. If the public were to take that away, I do not know if they would still provide much service. I am sorry to say this, but cybersecurity is a matter that belongs to the Belgian Cyber Security Centre and the Prime Minister is competent to do so. Your second question concerns the investigation, but I cannot say anything about it. For that, you must address Minister Geens. As for the extra protection for the airport, the airport, like the whole country, was under threat level 3. There was extra protection at the airport and there were soldiers there. In addition, there were no specific indications that level 4 had to be transferred anywhere. In that sense, the airport has been subject to additional protection since 26 November 2015. The threat level 3 was proclaimed for all soft targets, being public places with a high concentration of individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u9	Minister, I continue to express my concern about the following. First of all, you say that the data found on Abaaoud's PC is open source data made public by airports around the world. Okay, thank God. What still bothers me, however, is what I intervened for months ago. The Buildings Regulation adds plans that can be downloaded and used by any user on the Internet, for good but also for wrong purposes, to the publication of the specifications. Sometimes it is not just about public access to airports. That's what my question was about. You also say that cybersecurity is a matter for the Prime Minister. I agree with that, but you will immediately connect to the threat level 3, for which you are responsible. Why? You're also Minister of Security. As Minister of Security, you can also alert the Prime Minister to the problem of cybersecurity and the data made public, especially on public websites. We shouldn't keep putting the cat in the milk. This is a point I have been pointing out for months, but which has not been given sufficient attention to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u10	Mr. President, Minister, the ASTRID communications network is a public private-law company that was established in 1998 and began providing its services from 2001. It has about 56,000 users, including police, firefighters, the Red Cross, Fluxys, transport companies and hospitals. The network, which uses a frequency band different from those used by mobile operators, has about 600 main antennas. The management contract signed between the Federal State, represented by the Minister of the Interior, and ASTRID sets out the obligations of the various parties and the general framework within which this company will fulfil its social objective. ASTRID has obviously been cited a lot in recent weeks. As you know, during the morning of 22 March, an unprecedented overload caused the network to crash for part of the day, especially in the Brussels Region, greatly complicating the task of emergency networks. The network reached a completely new limit of physical capacity on that day, due in part to the influx of communications from reinforcements from other provinces trying to connect. On the other hand, a second point has caught my attention: the company's financial situation is hardly enviable. In total, the annual budget is around EUR 45 million. Since 2009, the State subsidy has been insufficient to cover expenditure. It includes, for example, the network maintenance contract – outsourced to Proximus in partnership with Airbus – the rental of the lines from the operators and the salaries of ASTRID employees. Moreover, in 2013 and 2014, the company did not receive a single euro from the government. The accumulated liability of the State now stands at around €115 million. To make it through, ASTRID has so far not used its debt capacity, but it has drawn from the bottom of the wool of its reconstructed capital. It is therefore in the light of the two elements, both technical and financial, that I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. First, feedback from the field suggests that actors complain about the use of complex devices, for which training is too often superficial. Do you have the same feedback from actors who need to use ASTRID? What, if any, are you going to do to improve these trainings? The second point relates to the budget. Last year, you included €46 million in the budget for ASTRID; do you intend to increase this item? Do you intend to pay the full balance of the $115 million outstanding? The next point concerns the new management contract, the old one having expired since 2008, which is in the process of inter-cabinet negotiations. What new developments will he present in relation to the old one? When do you intend to finalize this new contract? Are you contemplating, as has been read in some press articles, the transit of some of ASTRID's services through the networks of private operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u11	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, on the subject of improving training, a distinction should be made between two types of training: product-knowledge training and operational training. Operational training is provided by police academies and fire schools. In this context, ASTRID training hours for firefighters were increased from one hour to two hours of theory and two hours of practice, by a royal decree of 18 November 2015. As a result, operational training was extended from one hour to four, including two hours of practice. The product training is provided by ASTRID according to the train the trainer principle. ASTRID trains key people in organizations who, in turn, disseminate the knowledge gained to their colleagues. In addition to training, it is essential to plan, at regular intervals, exercises, also of communication, and to use the "disaster" communication groups during these, which will make radio users accustomed to these specific groups. As far as financing is concerned, insufficient structural financing balances in ASTRID's annual accounts do indeed originate in a predicate offence in the Head of State, in particular in Article 26 of the management contract with ASTRID, a public limited liability company. The situation of structural under-financing has been rectified since the 2016 financial year and ASTRID has indeed benefited from an entry of €46.74 million as an allocation in 2015. With regard to the accounting treatment of the outstanding balance, it is up to ASTRID's board of directors to account for this claim against the State as it sees fit. A draft of a new management contract was prepared by ASTRID in consultation with the users meeting within the Network User Advisory Committee. This project is under discussion in the government, in an intercabinet working group, again this morning. The text maintains the principle of funding approved by the legislator in 1998, i.e. through two channels. The first channel is the annual financing of operating expenses (maintenance of systems and operating costs). These expenses are subsidized by an entry in the budget of the Internal FPS in the general expenditure budget. In the second channel, the acquisition of investments is prefinanced by ASTRID's own means and the total amount is replenished by the annual subscriptions subscribed by the users. The new management contract project has three pillars: ensuring reliability and continuity of services, maintaining and improving network coverage and capacity, and developing new services to meet the changing needs of users. The previous management contract focused on the implementation of the various technologies at a time when ASTRID was still in the deployment phase, while the new project responds more precisely in the form of a wide range of services to the current and future needs of users. On March 31, 2016, ASTRID's Board of Directors discussed in detail the operation of the radiocommunication network during the March 22, 2016 attacks. The Management Board once again stresses that an external audit carried out by Deloitte in 2015 and benchmarking with other European countries show that TETRA technology used by the ASTRID network is the most appropriate for providing multidisciplinary communications to rescue and security services. Among these unique features is the principle of group communication and security. TETRA has become the norm at European or even global level. For example, Germany has just implemented Europe's largest TETRA network with more than 600,000 users. In addition to the TETRA radio network, ASTRID has been offering a new service since 2014, called blue light mobile. Through a single SIM card, users can use all Belgian 3G and 4G commercial networks and neighbouring countries for the rapid transfer of data to tablets or computers. This high speed data service is secure and reserved for emergency and security services only. With the exception of this particular innovative service, I am not planning to transit these radio services via mobile operator networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u12	Minister, thank you for these detailed answers. I understand that according to an audit, TETRA technology is the most appropriate. But it really came out of the first round of hearings, in the commission of inquiry into the attacks of Monday afternoon, how much the crash of the network, and of the ASTRID network in particular, completely handicapped the emergency services, the response services, the emergency services, on 22 March. This was pointed out by each speaker. You are certainly aware of this, at least I hope so. What happened is extremely problematic. Of course, some additional resources are allocated. However, I repeat that I cannot remove this impression that the crash of the ASTRID network, which is fundamental to the operation of the rescue services, has delayed and complicated their work; both the governor of the Flemish Brabant province and the head of network 112 of Leuven have pointed out this. And today we realize that the management contract had expired since 2008 and that there was a chronic underfunding of 115 million euros, now partially bailed out. Every time it's a little the same story that repeats itself. Today, in the light of the tragic events that we have experienced, we see a whole series of serious failures in important services of our federal state, here the communications network. I hear all the things you are going to do, and we will be extremely attentive to their realization, but I can only regret everything that has not been done in the past and that has led to an extremely problematic situation, particularly on 22 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u13	If I can add a small comment, the negotiation of the new management contract and the additional funding are prior to the attacks. These are steps I took before I got to know everything that happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u14	That's not what I mean. One reacts again at the last moment, when one realizes the situation, 115 million deficits. It's not your fault especially, and you've responded in part. But I have the impression that for all the files that we are analysing at the level of the sovereign services of our state and the security services, it is always that kind of story. We allowed a situation to rot until we found ourselves with outdated and unsuitable tools. And here we go, we're putting gutters here, this way. You've actually put some guts on. In fact, I said in my question that the 46 million were included in the 2015 budget. But again, that's not enough. That's certainly not enough. This situation inherited from the past is unacceptable to me. And today we find ourselves in such conditions. We need to do more and better quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u15	Mr President, Minister, on April 2, when the police intervened around the Stock Exchange, it was found that none of the officers were wearing identification badges or intervention numbers. Minister, as part of the intervention around the Stock Exchange, what specific circumstances justified the need to remove the nominal identification pads of the operatives in operation? How is it that this badge has not been replaced by an intervention number? Are you aware of any other circumstances or cases in which law enforcement officials remove their identification pads without replacing them with an intervention number? Do you intend to take steps to ensure that such breaches do not occur again? Which ones and according to what timetable? Can these measures go as far as disciplinary action, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u16	Frédéric, the wear of the nominative badge is regulated by Ministerial Circular GPI65, which allows the competent authority (the Chief of Staff, the Commissioner General, the Director General or their delegates) to exempt members of their staff from the wear of the nominative badge when, in exceptional circumstances, it is preferable that police officers and officers remain anonymous. In the present case, the degree of threat and the nature of the event concerned may have led the responsible authority to independently consider that the anonymity of the police officers involved should be guaranteed. It is not up to me to replace the various authorities involved and to question the risk analysis carried out by the latter in relation to the events of April 2. The obligation to replace the nameplate with an intervention number is provided for in new section 41 of the Police Function Act, which was recently amended by the Act containing various provisions. However, it has not yet entered into force, since a royal decree will also have to be adopted in order to lay down the arrangements for the identification of police officers and officers in all circumstances. Finally, the practical and logistical implications of implementing this measure should be borne in mind. The law was passed but the royal decree was not yet ready. The development and implementation of legislative and regulatory measures necessary for the identification of police officers and officers are under way. It is for the competent disciplinary authority to consider, depending on the circumstances, whether the absence of the nameplate constitutes a disciplinary breach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that we must now focus on the Royal Decree and on the entry into force of the law as it was passed with a view to completing the procedure. On the other hand, I understand that, in exceptional circumstances, the decision to withdraw based on the preservation of anonymity can be justified. In any case, identification must be possible. I will keep an eye on the evolution of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u18	Minister, the disciplinary law of 13 May 1999 provides that, with regard to the senior officers of the local police, the superior disciplinary authority - the only one able to apply heavy penalties up to and including dismissal - is the Minister of the Interior, i.e. you. Can you indicate, since you took office, the number of disciplinary cases involving senior officers of the local police that you had to know about? How are these files broken down by police area? What were the outcomes and on what basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u19	Mr Frédéric, the disciplinary law of 13 May 1999 on the disciplinary status of police personnel designates me, in fact, as a superior disciplinary authority, in particular for senior officers, namely police commissioners and chiefs of corps. In this context, I have the power to impose minor or heavy disciplinary sanctions against these categories of persons, either by seizing directly from a file, by referring to it or by transmitting the file by the ordinary disciplinary authority, when it considers that the facts are likely to result in a heavy disciplinary sanction. Since taking office in October 2014, I have had six disciplinary cases opened in this context. Four of them are now closed. I have issued two heavy sanction decisions, a light sanction decision and a ranking decision. The conduct giving rise to these disciplinary proceedings relates, inter alia, to acts of abuse of authority, forgery in writing, breach of professional secrecy, driving a service vehicle under the influence of alcohol or intoxication, lack of knowledge of regulatory provisions and pressure on others to influence its decision. In order to protect the privacy of those affected by these cases, I cannot disclose the identity of the persons concerned, their breakdown by police area or the details of the sanctions imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u20	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u21	Minister, in March 2013, your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, and her French colleague, Mr Valls, signed the so-called Doornik Il Agreement. On 23 April 2014, the Belgian Parliament ratified the March 2013 Convention. The French National Assembly approved it on 25 June 2015, followed by the French Senate on 15 July 2015. The Doornik Il Agreement entered into force on 1 October 2015. In the meantime, fortunately, we already know a reduction in border crime. In the districts of Ypres, Kortrijk and Tournai 96 facts were referred to as border crime in 2012, in 2013 there were only 34 and in 2014 there was a slight increase to 62, which is still less than in 2012. In 2015 and early 2016, we experienced special developments that may have required a cross-border approach. I am thinking here of the attacks in Paris, the influx of illegal migrants through the Schengen area, the camps in Dunkirk and Calais. How many cases of border crime were there in 2015 and in the first months of 2016? Where is the common database to be established in which the personal data collected by the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation are stored and processed? Following the attacks in Paris, France introduced border controls at the Belgian-French border, which they still do. Belgium also makes targeted border controls at a number of border crossings, including with France. Were specific agreements made here that fit in Tournai Il? Have there been any common patrols in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks? Finally, what is the overall assessment of this is probably the most important part of my question for the first months of the operation of the Tournai I Agreement? Is it France in particular that makes use of the opportunities created by Tournai I or does Belgium make the most use of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u22	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, the figures you quoted for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 relate to the former arrondissements of Ypres, Kortrijk and Tournai and are limited to four phenomena: carjackings, home invasions, homejackings and ramcracking. When we look at the figures for the same phenomena for 2015, we come up with 62 facts for the three mentioned arrondissements together and 4 facts in the former arrondissement of Veurne. For the first months of 2016, I cannot give you full figures. In reply to your second question, I would like to inform you that the automated processing of personal data, as laid down in Article 7 of the Doornik II Agreement, is going very well within the Tournai Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation. A first trial version of the system was launched in 2010. Afterwards, the system was further developed to ensure that all information flows smoothly between all Belgian and French partners represented in the Centre. In addition, the CPDS Doornik was also connected to the European SIENA information exchange network at the beginning of 2016. In reply to your third question, I would point out that the border controls introduced by France after the attacks in Paris and police checks carried out on the Belgian side are not part of the Tournai II agreement. It is more joint than joint actions, since mixed operatives were not used. In reply to your fourth question, I would point out that the terrorist attacks in Belgium and France did not involve any specific mixed patrols. Many mixed patrols still take place in the Belgian-French border region. Over the past few months, the focus has been on the issue of illegal migration. Of course, attention was also paid to Terro. In reply to your last question, I can say that no general evaluation of the Tournai II Agreement has yet taken place. However, a working group of experts was set up to answer the questions raised by some of the provisions of the new agreement in the field of operational services. This group will, inter alia, have to make the necessary procedural and practical arrangements to ensure the best possible application of the agreement. Which of the two countries makes the most use of the possibilities created by Tournai II is difficult to determine. In most cases, such as mixed patrols or the recent surrender of a suspect to France by helicopter, both countries benefit from the opportunities for cooperation offered by the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u23	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which is quite positive for me. Only I find that there is a difference between a joint patrol and a common patrol. This is likely to be such as the difference between "indeed' and "immediate'.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u24	Deputy Prime Minister, in order to inform citizens and to fight more effectively against the phenomenon of jihadist terrorism, the French government has set up the website www.stop-jihadism.gouv.fr. This site is intended for all citizens living in France and consists of four main categories. The first describes and clarifies the current terrorist threat to France and enables citizens to better understand and understand it. The second describes the various actions taken by the French State to combat this phenomenon, namely preventive, repressive, dissuasive and international measures. This counter-terrorism mechanism is explained. The third helps decipher jihadist propaganda. This part of the site decodes the manipulation techniques used to recruit jihadist candidates, as well as mass propaganda on the Internet. Finally, the fourth one informs French citizens about how to act in case of an attack, with a list of good reflexes to adopt in an emergency or in case of radicalisation of a loved one. A green number is used to report it, if any. In view of the dramatic attacks that have affected our country and the real threat that still exists, the creation of an Internet portal similar to that in force in France, involving, if possible, the federated entities, would be an interesting option, both in terms of informing citizens and preventing the threat. Obviously, we had an interest in working together together to deal with the terrorist threat. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how do you view the establishment in our country of a national Internet portal to combat jihadism comparable to that set up by the French government? Do you share the objectives and methodology of this online portal? Is the establishment of such a portal an option in our country? If so, what is the status of the project in this file? If this can be achieved, do you intend to involve the federated entities? If so, could you provide us with the content of your priorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u25	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I am fully aware of the importance of such a communication on this subject. It is important for the population to be fully informed. In this regard, a website could be a very practical tool. At present, there is no website similar to the French site in our country. I also intend to stress the essential nature of such an initiative, also to inform local authorities and/or experts. However, the Belgian model differs fundamentally from the French model. The aim therefore certainly cannot be to reproduce in Belgium the website existing in France. Such a site must be part of a global communication strategy. For the time being, reflection on the design of an information portal is being carried out within the framework of the recently updated Action Plan against Radicalism. This initiative is being carried out in close cooperation with the departments concerned and the representatives of the Communities and Regions which have recently been involved in the implementation of this plan. The survey of opportunities/opportunities is still at an initial stage. One possible way would be to reach an information site where the public would not only find the necessary information but also a referral to the various aid bodies or emergency telephone lines which have already been set up by different departments of the Communities and Regions. At present, it is still too early to issue concrete judgements on this matter. As soon as a proposal or initiative is ready, I will not fail to warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I find encouraging. As I said, it is important to have a reference portal. As you said, this one can return to other numbers and other aid instances. It should be available to the public as well as to local authorities or experts, who are sometimes in demand for a portal containing all available information. I will of course come back to you when you have made further progress in the implementation of this very important tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u27	Mr President, Minister, following the recent terrorist attacks in our country, the investigating judges in charge of the investigation have asked the inhabitants and traders of the Brussels agglomeration with private cameras recording, even very partially, images of the public road, to keep the images recorded between 15 and 31 March 2016 for possible judicial exploitation. Today, however, the law requires traders to limit the coverage of cameras in the vicinity of stores to a relatively small field. However, allowing these traders to film more of the public space in front of their signboards would allow the police to benefit from a network of cameras complementary to the existing network, whose images could be used in investigations such as those currently conducted. In addition, I am reminded that voices have been expressed in our police forces to call for a change in the law in this direction. Minister, how do you view the idea of allowing traders to film their businesses more widely in order to facilitate investigations, and also in light of the need to respect privacy? Have our law enforcement agencies ever told you of a request to do so? Are you in favour of this request? Can you tell us whether there has been a reflection, in close consultation with your counterparts in the area of Justice and Privacy, on the adaptation of surveillance camera legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u28	Mr Calomne, it is true that the legislation on the installation and use of surveillance cameras – the Cameras Act of 21 March 2007 – provides that the controller does not direct his surveillance cameras specifically to a place for which he is not responsible. As far as traders are concerned, this means that it is only possible for them to film public roads in front of their businesses to the extent necessary and indispensable for their images to be usable. That is why this must be reduced to a strict minimum. This rule is part of the principle of proportionality to be respected in any processing of personal data which, in particular, requires that only the places for which one is responsible be filmed and only to the extent necessary to achieve the stated purposes. Moreover, the legislator's objective was not to allow individuals to film the public highway when they have no supervisory and control powers in these places. From the moment that the use of surveillance cameras constitutes an intrusion into the privacy of the filmed persons and the basic principle of privacy must therefore be observed, it does not seem possible to allow anyone who wishes to monitor a place by cameras to extend their field of vision to the public, even if it is a merchant. I am in favour of making an exception to this principle, but only in legitimate cases where the increased risk to safety justifies this type of measure. A general rule for filming public roads in the vicinity of private places would be to allow individuals to monitor public space, which would undermine the principle of law prohibiting private militias. A reflection has been initiated on the adaptation of the Cameras Act and will be conducted in consultation with my colleagues in the Department of Privacy and Justice. It is indeed necessary to strike a balance between the requirements for security and the right to privacy of citizens with regard to the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u29	Minister, thank you for your relatively complete and accurate answers. If a reflection is made at this stage, I will not hesitate to return to you once it has been completed and concrete steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u30	Minister, according to Christopher Piehota, director of the American Terrorist Screening Center (TSC), Europe does not use all the information it obtains from the TSC. In an interview with CNN he said: "It is worrying that our partners do not use all our data." The TSC has a database of terrorist suspects, including some suspects from the Paris and Brussels attacks. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. Firstly, how is cooperation between our services and the TSC going? Secondly, is there sufficient staff to be able to process all data from the TSC? Thirdly, is there enough hard and software to process all data from the TSC?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u31	Mr Top, first of all, this cooperation stems directly from the Visa Waiver Programme. In the context of the favourable conditions that our country receives in this respect, a commitment from Belgium to feed the TSC was expected, among other things. The requested submission of data from Belgium is consistently in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding we signed together with the US authorities. As a return for this delivery, the United States offers to make part of their data available on the basis of a hit/no-hit system. I visited the Terrorist Screening Center last year. It's an impressive fact. On each floor there are remnants of terrorist attacks, e.g. collapsed support beams of the WTC. For example, employees are confronted every day with the importance of their jobs. The visit was impressive. Secondly, however, this offer from the United States is made through secure accesses, outside police information applications. This makes systematic implementation difficult for the time being. In addition, in autumn, the United States provided a physical carrier of data. However, the entities listed in the overview are displayed with different writing methods and aliases. It is also not possible to simply transfer these data to the General Police Database, as the legal basis for this is often lacking in Belgian legislation. This information must always be evaluated or, how, with which system and database it will be processed. The processing of the large influx of international police information since 13 November 2015 is carried out according to internal processes and with respect for international agreements. The heavy workload of the anti-terrorist units has led to a delay in the view. The federal police are currently investigating how the processes can be organised more efficiently. I have replied to the question about the systematic restriction. I can also tell you that the El Bakraoui brothers were not mentioned in the data provided by the US in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u32	Minister, if we ourselves have to set up such a service for the remnants of attacks in our country, I hope that we will have enough on one floor. As far as the dossier itself is concerned, we have, of course, been linking up databases for months, in order to arrive at a single system that works well. I understand from your reply that there is still work to be done on this, that these data must be transmitted in a smooth way, of course, in a very secure way, and that we must work on the issue of legislation in order to create this good database. My main concern today is the timing and progress of this process. We need to come up with viable processes as soon as possible so that we do not collid on walls every time because data cannot be transmitted or because we are at a disadvantage, both in terms of staff and legislation. We must make this database one workable whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u33	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns a training camp which would have taken place from 6 to 8 May. The question was tabled on 4 April. I'm still gonna ask them. I don't know if the training camp went on, I haven't found any more information about that. In the aforementioned period, the Dutch organisation Dar al-Fahm, a centre for Islamic education, would hold a training weekend in our country. It would be an ideological training exclusively for young Muslims. One of the announced speakers would be Abou Hafs. He is known for preaching a radical thought. I come to my questions about this training weekend that may have taken place in our country. Are the activities planned for the training camp and the camp itself followed? Secondly, do you know about other training camps of this kind? Thirdly, what action can you take against this? Fourthly, will you take the necessary steps to deny the announced speaker Abou Hafs access to the territory, since, for reasons of public policy and security, EU citizens can be denied access to the host country, in this case Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u34	Mr Metsu, the police are indeed aware of the planned activities that have taken place. Without going into detail with regard to the initiatives taken by the police, I can tell you that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that this is followed up. There have indeed been other meetings in the past which are somewhat similar to the activities now announced. Once again, the police ensured the follow-up within the legal framework. The police shall collect as much information and information as possible on the activities listed. In the first instance, this is monitored from the point of view of its tasks in the field of administrative police. In doing so, the administrative authorities shall be informed. Depending on the results of these efforts, administrative measures may be considered and, where appropriate, judicial police tasks may also be carried out in consultation with and on the instructions of the judicial authorities. If it appears that the presence of the person concerned could jeopardise public policy or national security, the necessary measures will be taken to deny him access to the territory. Bringing a radical message in itself is not a criminal offence, and fortunately for us it is not a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u35	Minister, when radicalism falls into extremism or other forms, it becomes a danger. You may not know whether Abou Hafs was actually present, since this only happened a few days ago. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u36	Following the Paris attacks, the French government launched an awareness campaign to better prepare and protect citizens from the terrorist threat. An illustrated poster entitled "Reaction in the event of a terrorist attack" has thus been widely distributed by the French authorities, both in public places and on social networks. This medium gives practical and precise instructions to citizens on how to react to attacks. Articulated around the triptych "to escape, hide, alert", it also provides all the contact details necessary to contact the authorities in case of a problem. Vice-Prime Minister, last December, I asked you about the opportunity to develop and disseminate a similar tool in Belgium, because of the terrorist threat that already exists in our country at this time. You then told me that the Crisis Centre was already working on specific infographics for different risks, that these infographics had to be developed in the three national languages and would be available, I quote, "as soon as possible" in 2016 on the portal of the Crisis Centre dedicated to preventive information on all risks. To my great satisfaction, your announcement was indeed followed by concrete actions. I saw recently the posting of the new tab on the terrorist threat on the website info-risks.be. On this page, accessible in both the three national languages and in English, the reflexes to have during and after a terrorist attack are detailed. An infographic has also been developed on this site for the purpose of greater clarity and I thank you for it. While I can only welcome the establishment of this mechanism, especially in the light of the recent tragic events that have struck our country and in view of the serious terrorist risk which unfortunately continues to hover over Belgium, in the face of this very difficult situation that we are facing today, all avenues must be explored to further strengthen the protection of citizens. It is therefore appropriate to provide as much preventive information as possible in order to help them adopt the right reflexes in the event of a terrorist attack. Also, the wide dissemination of preventive infographics seems to be a good way forward. My question is relatively short and precise. Because of the magnitude of the threat to our country, have you made the decision to extend the publication of this tool beyond the only portal of the Crisis Centre? In other words, is a broadcast to the general public of physical posters in public places, as is the case in France, at this stage a track envisaged by the government? If so, could you tell us when these infographics can be disseminated as widely as possible physically?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u37	As part of the risk prevention policy carried out by the Internal FPS, the General Directorate of the Crisis Centre launched in November 2014 a web portal "info-risks.be" dedicated specifically to preventive information on all risks. The portal, which is made available to citizens by all stakeholders, is also intended to support municipalities in their obligation to inform their citizens in advance of their risks and their emergency plans and procedures. In the face of the particular risk of a terrorist threat or attack, a specific web page and infographics have been developed. After consultation with various relevant partners, this information has been posted on this web portal in order to advise citizens on the right reflexes to adopt according to the level of terrorist threat and the security measures still applicable in our country. As a result of the dramatic events we experienced on 22 March, it was important, as a first step, to conduct crisis management and communication with a focus on relief and support to victims and their loved ones and on the safety of all. It is important to continue to inform citizens about the monitoring of the situation but also about the recommendations to be followed in the face of this unfortunately still identified threat for our country. As of 1 April 2016, a specific web portal was set up through close collaboration with relevant actors for continuous information of the population, victims and their relatives. It can be found on the site of the Crisis Center: "Attentat-2203". Further information on the recommendations to be followed before, during and after a terrorist attack is now also disseminated via the "info-risks.be" web portal. To further strengthen these existing approaches, an extensive information and communication campaign will be conducted by the Crisis Centre for a period of three years. The aim of this campaign under the "info-risks.be" dome is to raise awareness of self-protection and good behaviour in emergency situations. It may be a nuclear incident, a Seveso accident or a terrorist-related emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u38	Thank you for the full answer, Minister. About this three-year campaign that will be initiated by the Crisis Centre, I will come back to you in a few weeks or a few months, when it will actually be launched, in order to have further information on its practical implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u39	Mr Minister, it is with great astonishment that we have learned the decision to abolish the Art and Antiquities Unit of the Central Directorate of the Judicial Police, whose mission is precisely to combat illicit trafficking in cultural property. This is a surprising decision in more than one way. First of all, because illicit trafficking in cultural works is, according to Interpol, the third most important illegal trafficking, after drugs and weapons. We're talking about an amount that's about $6 billion a year. It is a traffic that not only deprives many people of their heritage, but also finances armed conflicts. Today, no one knows that alongside the destruction of temples, the terrorist group Daesh is financed by the illegal sale of cultural property in areas under its control in Syria and Iraq. In addition to this, Belgium is unfortunately known as a hub of this illegal traffic. Combating this trafficking in cultural property should be one of our priorities more than ever. This is a fact shared by our French neighbours, but also in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. They have all strengthened their human resources to fight precisely against the trafficking of works of art. The Justice Committee has just voted on a bill that reinforces the Belgian State's prerogatives in the fight against this illegal traffic. I was able to discuss this with the Minister of Justice at last week's plenary session, but he did not seem informed of the fact that, in parallel with the law he proposed, which we discussed last week, had taken place the removal of this specific cell. The disappearance of this central cell hurts us. This is a nonsense in an area where international cooperation is paramount. It also hurts us because Belgium's credibility at the international level, which is already not very good in this area, will be further reduced. Deputy Prime Minister, how do you justify the disappearance of this Art and Antiquities cell of the Central Police? How can international missions still be carried out by Belgium? Does the Government not consider that the fight against the financing of terrorism also involves combating illicit trafficking in cultural property? How do you justify the choice of decentralization of this mission when all neighbouring countries have decided to do the opposite and to strengthen their specialized national units? Who will feed into the database currently maintained by this judicial unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u40	Minister, on the same subject, my inquiry follows on from the information that has percolated about your option to remove the "Arts and Antiquities" cell from the Federal Police, including a sequence from the RTBF newscast during which investigators were testifying to this decision. This option to remove the Art and Antiquities Cell of the Federal Police is unfortunately in line with other decisions, on which I have already questioned you, to remove or seriously diminish the means of other coordination cells within the Federal Police. I could mention the OECDFO, active in the fight against financial crime, which costs us so much money, or the Environmental Police Unit. We see behind this a logic of dismantling the federal police or of diminishing the capacity to combat sharp forms of crime. That can only be of concern to us, Minister. In doing so, for a very relative economy - we are talking about two or three people to coordinate this cell - you remove expertise, support to local police and an important interface at the international level. To combat the trafficking of art and antiquities, one must have the capacity to discuss with the police of other countries. As a reminder, the unit you wish to remove is responsible for managing, analysing and exploiting relevant documentation relating to the theft or illegal trade of works of art on the national or international scene, providing technical and documentary support to judicial missions (thefts and receivers of objects of art, objects, phenomena), managing national and international records relating to the theft of works of art or the illegal trade of works of art and specific police techniques, coordinating international missions rogatory and serving as an international point of contact for national and foreign police services with regard to works of art and antiques. My colleague has described the importance of trafficking in works of art and antiques with regard to the financing of terrorism, but it is also a privileged vehicle for money laundering in the case of retro-commissions, for example on public procurement. So we know what we're talking about, can you tell me how many people have been working in the Federal Police Art and Antiquities Unit so far? What are the recent results of this unit in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing? In particular, did you make a negative diagnosis, making a catastrophic evaluation of this cell that would justify its removal? Have any evaluations of its operation been carried out? What were the conclusions? If its deletion is confirmed – which I do not hope –, to whom will the missions relating to the support of expertise to local police and international contact point in matters of art trafficking and antiquities be entrusted? Are you ready to look back on the stated intentions following the various inquiries that prompted your announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u41	Colleagues, first of all, I want to say that the Art and Antiquities Unit employs two collaborators, one operational and one CaLog. I'm saying it to relativize. This decision is the result of the federal police's optimisation movement since 2013, which provides for maximum deconcentration for the benefit of the borough directorates. The deconcentration of operational work was decided within the framework of the optimisation of the Federal Police, on the proposal of a working group composed of magistrates, experts and police officers. The aim is to bring investigators closer to the places of commission of this type of phenomenon. This is from 2013. The Art programme, specializing in combating the illicit trade in art and antiquities, was part of the former Directorate for Combating Crime Against Property. By optimisation and the fact that the illegal trade in art and antiquities is not included as a phenomenon in the comprehensive security framework note or in the draft national security plan 2016-2019, the Federal Police decided to abolish this cell and to use this capacity for other phenomena; monitoring of this phenomenon is included in a normal functioning. In most federal judicial police in the boroughs, however, there are one or sometimes several reference investigators for art-related crime. They will then be inserted when a judicial investigation is opened within their district. As the proposal stands at present, the deconcentrated level will have to be organised in such a way that the expertise is distributed among the boroughs, and that the coordination of the dossiers which go beyond the boroughs remains assured. In the context of a criminal case, a magistrate may always call on an expert. Within the federal police on behalf of the integrated police, the International Relations Directorate, CGI, is the unique and central point of contact for all international partners. It is this direction that we must address. The Commission is responsible for transmitting the request to the most appropriate Belgian service to respond. This response, qualitatively verified by the contact point, is then returned to the applicant international service. The local police will not be required to provide a new jurisdiction. There is therefore no allocation of additional resources in this area. It goes without saying that terrorism and the underlying financial flows are the government's priority. The problem of the illegal financing of terrorism through the illicit trafficking of works of art is addressed by the department responsible for the approach to economic and financial crime, in particular the Financial Information Processing Unit or the investigative "terrorism" units and the "terrorist financing" units in all its forms. Indeed, partitioning all these phenomena into different cells would lead to a lack of link between the different types of crime. Sometimes the same networks are active and in the theft of works of art and other funding sectors. Therefore, in order to make us more effective, the specialists recommend that no separation be made in this area. A comparison with other countries is almost impossible, given that each service has its own structures and competences. All stolen items must be recorded in the National Data Bank (NGB). It's the only reference database. It is fed by all police services. I think I have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. The international context has changed significantly in recent years. A situation that has been discussed at some point in time X should be able to be re-examined today in relation to a context that has fundamentally changed. A priori, it seems consistent not to divide the various sectors concerned; traffickers in works of art may also be involved in drug trafficking. After the removal of this cell, will the allocated means – which were not already enormous – be allocated elsewhere in order to continue the work at best?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u43	All these cells are concentrated in a new direction in the fight against terrorism. Additional resources will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u44	Could we then get the details of the human and financial resources allocated to each cell?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u45	That's the police chart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u46	I can ask you a written question to know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u47	Minister, I am not your reasoning. I asked you a question you didn't answer. It dealt with the pre-assessment of the work of this cell. You tell us that she has two collaborators, but I already had that information. In your opinion, we need to relativize. Therefore, savings must also be minimized. Is it estimated, in absolute terms, that two persons specializing in the fight against trafficking in art and antiquities at the scale of a country such as Belgium are too many? I don't think so. Your logic of deconcentration of means follows a principle of disorganization. There is no specialisation, no international contact capacity, and no point of reference for local police who are not exposed daily to a phenomenon such as antiquity trafficking. You say there was a concern for coordination between the various federal police cells. In response to this concern, you decide to remove cells instead of improving their reciprocal links. I sincerely wonder about your agenda in this case. Is it a matter of disrupting the central structures of the federal police and leaving the way open for acts of money laundering? I can't believe it. However, what other interpretation can be given to this decision? You have already taken such a step vis-à-vis OECDFO (Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime). I will re-examine you specifically in this regard. I have also done so with regard to the environment police. There are criminal phenomena, alongside terrorism, which require expertise, coordination, international relations and you systematically deprive us of them. I think that is not a good political choice, and I therefore table a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u48	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government 1. to question the proposed abolition of the Art and Antiquities Unit of the Federal Police; 2. to ensure, within the Federal Police, that sufficient means of coordination, expertise and international representation are maintained in the field of environmental policing, art or antiquity trafficking or the fight against financial crime; 3. to make, in general, the fight against all trafficking and against money-laundering, which is often used for the financing of terrorism and international crime, a real priority accompanied by human, technical and legal means." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, asks the government 1. review the planned lifting of the Art and Antiques cell of the federal police; 2. ensure that federal police continue to have sufficient resources for coordination, expertise and international representation in relation to environmental police, the illicit trafficking of artifacts and antiquities and the fight against financial crime; 3. give more general, effective priority to combating all forms of illicit trafficking and money laundering, which often serve to finance terrorism and international crime, and to allocate the necessary human, technical and legal resources." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u49	Mr President, Minister, in the difficult time that our country is going through, the major festive events traditionally organized with the return of the fine days (such as music festivals, the organisation or the rebroadcasting of sports and other competitions) are part of these moments of popular unity that are indispensable to enable citizens to overcome moments of legitimate concern and thus start building together. However, as you have had to repeat, OCAM has so far maintained its threat assessment at level 3, that is, a high level that justifies security measures, particularly with respect to crowd sites. For the mayors in whose territory such events would be taking place – and there are many in the country – this is an important responsibility, especially with regard to the police means at their disposal to implement the measures necessary to ensure the protection of the participants. Minister, are you considering issuing specific directives to help local authorities maintain the security of such events? If so, in what timetable and on what paths? More importantly, do you intend to provide additional resources to local police areas for the coverage of such events? If so, which ones and how will they be able to dispose of them? In the alternative, I would also like to know whether it is possible for local authorities to obtain, possibly through you, a specific assessment of the threat around a given event.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u50	Mr. President, Minister, in these troubled times, the organizers of major events as well as the caretakers feel stuck by the systematic implementation of the search law. Indeed, with the threat of terrorism, demands are growing for visitor searches at the entrance to events. Belgian law is very strict in relation to such searches. They are permitted but very limited by law. Officers can search only if there is real reason to believe that there is a danger to the safety of those present, if there is any indication that the person could carry a dangerous weapon or object. Even in this case, the search cannot be systematic. It is clearly forbidden to search people one by one, and there is a need for a valid reason. Guardianship companies are currently subject to complaints, penalties or penalties if they are required to implement measures not permitted by law. Minister, in certain specific circumstances, particularly when the level of threat is higher, should the legislation not be expanded and allow for systematic searches? What is involved in changing the level of security threat required for major events such as festivals? As for the human, material and organisational means to be provided, what steps should be taken to secure the sites? Finally, day-to-day recurring risks are integrated into budgets, but they do not provide for such additional costs. How will they be funded? Is federal ownership envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u51	In reply to Mr Delannois, there is no specific course of action. According to the OCAM assessment, major events are currently at threat level 3. The police services are informed each time with the request to take appropriate measures to protect these events in collaboration with the organizer. These are general measures that must be tailored to the event in question. As Mr. Blanchart says, the terrorist threat increases requests to conduct visitor searches at the entrance to major events. Existing private security legislation does not prevent conclusive control of access. Private guarding agents can use portals and detection scanners to detect dangerous objects. The legislation only imposes specific restrictions on manual actions that can be carried out by a custodian. Anything that is hand luggage can, for example, be checked by a scanner, but the legislation does not allow a guardman to systematically search all hand luggage. The Private Security Act prohibits the control of personal clothing and property by guarding agents unless there are reasonable grounds for believing that a person may carry a weapon or a dangerous object on the basis of the person's conduct, material evidence or circumstances. As part of the revision of the Private Security Act, the powers of security officers, including those relating to searches, will be reviewed. I intend to introduce this bill to the government before the summer. If a mayor authorizes the conduct of an event, he must take into account the fact that the availability of the means of another area, via the coordinating director, or the means of the federal police, to protect an event is not infinite. For major events, it is possible, as was the case in the past, to call on external support, but the organiser himself will have to make available means of protection so that the event can take place in the safest conditions. It goes without saying that a change in the level of the terrorist threat will inevitably have an impact on the level of security to be implemented by the organizers and of protection by the police services, whether reinforced by the Defence or not. However, the level but also the content and evolution of the threat are important. Appropriate measures must be taken on a case-by-case basis based on the concrete elements at that place and at that time. However, there are no immutable rules in this regard. It is always a matter of precision work. At present, the level of threat is still at level 3 (serious), which means that the threat is possible and probable, and it is indeed so for major events as well. The local police chief always carries out a risk analysis, as well as an operational analysis. It may also request a specific threat assessment from the CAMO on a case-by-case basis. Most event organizers have freedom of choice regarding complementary security measures at an event. Any additional costs will therefore be borne by them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer, not for the fact that we are not going to put our hand in the pocket. I'm still a little worried. You answer that responsibility often falls on a case-by-case basis for specific elements. I would like to give a few examples; these are sometimes more important. As you know, I have already asked you questions about this. As a mayor, I already had to ban an event (cinema) because of specific elements that had been reported to me. I had to make the decision on my own. There was no problem, I had elements, and I assumed. When we were at Level 4, in Tournai, a flower market, the most important in Belgium, was to take place at a particular time, on the eve of Easter holidays, in conjunction with events related to this festival. Nevertheless, in Tournai, we have the number one of the representatives of the Catholic religion, that is, the bishop. All these elements are very important. In order to be able to decide whether or not to cancel the flower market, I had almost nothing to do with it. This is sometimes difficult. What is the basis for authorizing or not? On that day, I thought that if I would annuitate the flower market, one day or the other, when I would allow something else, I would be asked what the reasons for my decisions were. I therefore appeal to you, Minister: that the mayors should, perhaps not taken more seriously, but in any case, have more important elements to make their decisions. Now, honestly, I didn't have any. You teach me an element and I thank you for that. I understand that it is sometimes possible to obtain specific assessments for specific events from the OCAM; I do not know how to proceed, but I assume that the heads of bodies know that. Thank you, therefore, for this information. I know that French cities prohibit things at the Euro level. Here in Belgium, we do not know whether to do so. I had launched a series of possibilities in Tournai so I could do it. But if three days before, I'm told we're going to go to level four, what's my position? It's hard to say if we don't have any elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u53	Level four is declared when you have accurate information. I cannot say today that I will have precise information about an attack such a day at such an hour. As far as the transmission of more precise information is concerned, we will give the mayor the opportunity to request a security clearance. If the mayor has this authorization, we will be able to give much more precise information. Today, I can't, even if I wanted to. The solution would be to give the mayors the opportunity to request a security clearance in order to exchange confidential information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u54	You agree with me that making a decision without having all the elements, with criminal responsibility in the head of the mayor, is sometimes a little tricky.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u55	That is why I am opening this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u56	Minister, I agree with the thoughts of my colleague, who, like me, is regularly confronted with the burden of responsibility in the face of the legitimate pressure of the people who want to live despite the threat – and it is important to be able to continue to do so – with an enormous responsibility in the event of an accident. With regard to the final part of the response, the organizers will be responsible for increasing the benefits associated with raising the level of threat. The good news is that Belgian law is likely to change. This is something that we believe is very important in this type of situation. During football matches in the first division, there are possibilities to search systematically. Are you going to base yourself on that? If you can search football matches, why don't you do it in the festivals? In this type of event, guarding companies regularly work in complementarity and coordination with the police services. In our home, there's a festival that's been working very well for five years and that could relieve everyone if the law changed. I don't know when you're going to be able to do that, but our festival is in August.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u57	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have recently heard of your intention to have a whole series of so-called smart cameras along the country's highways. There would be a thousand of them. These cameras would, in your opinion, advance certain cases, including major banditry or terrorism. In concrete terms, they would spot the registration plates of the cars and, at the same time, take a photo. If the car is on the list of reported cars, the collected data would be transmitted to the police or investigators. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like more details on the location of these cameras, particularly in the province of Hainaut. In the preamble to my question, I would like to point out to you that motorways passing through this province are highly frequented international connections. How many cameras do you plan to install on highways across the Hainaut? And up to what places? I guess you'll understand what I was aiming for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u58	I strongly believe in this common approach when we talk about this network of ANPR cameras (automatic number flat recognition), where among many common interests, ours in particular fits in with the fight against terrorism. Regions can join this approach, with the additional benefit that the system represents for traffic safety. Indeed, with the same cameras, you can control the route. The federal and the regions can therefore work together in this regard. Currently, there is no comprehensive overview of the number of cameras and the exact position of existing ANPR systems along our borders. The reason for this is that each municipality can decide to place devices. So far, it's been going that way. For the time being, there is not yet a centralized registration requirement. Between 2016 and 2018, the federal government plans to equip more than 260 camera traffic axes at strategic points on highways. There are 260 traffic axes, or more than 1,000 cameras with an average of four cameras per site. Priority will be given to the installation on motorways at border level. In addition, 14 local police areas near the border each receive 52,500 euros for the purchase of ANPR cameras. The federal government will install 1,000 cameras and the 14 police zones (8 in Flanders and 6 in Wallonia) will also be able to buy them. Such purchases may also be financed by the traffic penalty fund. To the 260 sites we equip, we must add the subsidies granted to the police areas and the revenues of this fund. In the second half of 2016, a complete map will be drawn up of the sites already equipped with the ANPR system by the provinces or local areas. This overview will help determine the ideal positions on roadways. My services are already drawing up this map; we have identified the 260 sites and by summer we will be able to get a full view of the facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. Priority will be given to border areas and motorways. I therefore assume that Tournai and Mouscron will be part of the equipped areas. In our own police area, we also want to install cameras in the city. It would be desirable to establish collaborations between the federal and the different areas to maximize the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u60	We will also invest in a national server. Many provinces are installing provincial servers, but a national server will also be installed for cameras, so we can connect them all and power all cameras with information from the entire network.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u61	Cooperation between the zones and the federal government will therefore be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u62	Mr President, Minister, the Integrated Security Framework Paper brings together the input of all the actors involved in the security chain in order to achieve a sustained and sustainable approach to a number of crime phenomena. Work on the new framework paper is still ongoing. In last week's plenary, you said that this work would end in June, if I am right. One of the ten priorities in the framework paper is to tackle terrorism. This therefore includes its financing. There is no doubt that we urgently need a national policy against the financing of terrorism. Terrorists have many options for financing their activities. For example, they use decentralised digital money units such as bitcoin and digital financial services such as Ukash or Qiwi in Russia. These services are attractive to terrorists because they can be transferred anonymously, quickly and cheaply worldwide and in some cases unlimited money. Of course, restricting the financing of terrorism is not evident because it involves relatively small amounts that are difficult to detect. They often do not differ from normal financial transactions and are often also chosen for alternative means of payment and debt instruments, which are excluded from supervision. Innovative measures are needed to address the changing nature of terrorism and the new financial services operating outside the framework of the formal financial system. If we look at the four cross-cutting issues in the expected framework paper, the following elements could be useful in this context: the development of a fully-fledged administrative approach to crime; the establishment of a performant and coherent legal and institutional framework for the exchange of information between administrative and judicial authorities; international cooperation, both phenomenal, administrative and criminal. In this context, I would have liked to ask you the following questions. What is the approach to the fight against the financing of terrorism in our country at the moment? How do you, as Minister, intend to fill in the issues raised in the future, focusing on the financing of terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u63	Mrs Gabriels, the answer to your question concerns many areas of competence: Justice, Foreign Affairs, Finance and Social Affairs. In general, we can say that there is already a wide range of measures at present. I'll list some of them. First of all, a working group on terrorist financing was set up within the Plan R. That working group is under the direction of the Financial Information Processing Cell of the Federal Police. The task of this working group is to consider possible additional measures and, where appropriate, to take the initiative. The CFI is also part of the national task force. From the CFI further suspicious transactions are detected and passed on to the parquets, on which an investigation can then be initiated. Within every large-scale judicial investigation, and therefore also in terrorist investigations, attention is paid to the organization's logistical and financial resources and, where possible, a withdrawal mechanism is developed. Recent investigations have indeed concerned attempts to overbook bitcoins under threat of violence. These observations have now been exchanged internationally. In the follow-up of the foreign terrorist fighters, it is checked whether those concerned do not receive benefits. Where appropriate, they shall be withdrawn. The Channel Zone Action Plan organises the follow-up and is a permanent focus of all parties: the local and federal police, the judicial authorities and the municipal administration. The police follow up on the possible illegal sale of antique artifacts from the battlefield with which ISIS hopes to increase its income. Examples are the BELFI project, as well as the approach to supporting illegal activities. There is both an international and a national legislative framework on the basis of which funds can be frozen if they are suspected to be related to acts of terrorism. This was one of the first 12 measures, which has since been transposed into legislation. Now I come to your second question. The framework note and the National Security Plan, once approved, will be operationalised through the elaboration of a programme dossier on, inter alia, terrorism, but also on cross-cutting issues such as "money laundering' and "bounty-based' approaches are such transversal themes "s' and this is done with accompanying action plans. As an example, I quote from the National Security Plan an objective within the preventive section in relation to the spoiled approach. For example, the federal police will include the legal mechanism allowing the integrated police to spontaneously provide useful information to the Financial Information Processing Cell in the training of the judicial police in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the Terrain Intervention Guide to that effect. The ambition must indeed be to give an additional impetus to the fight against crime, in this case the fight against terrorism, with regard to the underlying financial resources. An integrated approach, both judicially and administratively, should as far as possible prevent organisations, non-profit organisations and others from collecting money that would be used to finance and support terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u64	As you say, Minister, it is indeed important that the many parties involved in the safety chain pay particular attention to this. We will continue to follow up on this issue and also look at it in the course of the discussion of the framework paper in committee. Last week, moreover, I received a written answer to about the same question to the Prime Minister. It is true that different powers are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u65	Minister, in 2006 the name of the degree of police officer was replaced by police officer. The powers were extended at that time, but they are still more limited than those of inspectors. The equipment of the police officer is also more limited. For example, he or she may not carry a firearm or a mattress, but pepper spray and possibly handcuffs. The police officer also gets another training, which is not unimportant. The demand for extra arms for police officers is not new and has been alive for several months and years. Those agents have been feeling vulnerable for some time and the current threat of terror has stirred things up in the file. Police union VSOA Police put a proposal on the negotiating table last year to arm police officers extra. A technical working group of Police Agents was then set up with the syndicated partners, representatives of local and federal police and experts. Following two meetings of the Working Group, the necessary and adapted legal texts were submitted on 17 February 2016 to amend the statute of police officers. These changes would mean that the regulatory armament of police officers would be similar to the individual armament of police officers. This requires an adaptation of the law on police duties and an adaptation of the training. In future, new police officers would automatically be equipped with individual armaments. The other police officers may follow the proposed training, subject to their individual agreement and subject to their government's consent. All this remains to be done in the adaptation of the laws and regulations. The government committed itself to incorporating the requested amendments into the legal texts as soon as possible. Can you confirm that the necessary amended legal texts were submitted on 17 February 2016 to amend the Staff Regulations? Which changes are involved? Do you consider the distinction between the two statutes, inspector and police officer, still relevant after the proposed amendments? If necessary, would you like to draw up a third statute, namely a security officer? Is this a problem with the proposed simplification of the Staff Regulations? Would it not be better to incorporate the changes to the legislation in the context of functional remuneration and simplification of the status of the police in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u66	I can confirm that the various texts amending the statute of police officers were indeed negotiated at the negotiating committee for the police services of 17 February 2016 with the syndicated partners. The amendments contained in the draft text concern, on the one hand, the armament of police officers and, on the other hand, their career. On arms, I can tell you that police officers have limited police powers. Although the tasks assigned to them by law were not originally of that nature to justify the use of a weapon, the circumstances in which the police work is carried out have evolved since then. In addition to the particular case of a high level of terrorist threat, police officers are now increasingly confronted with violent acts and the risk of reprisals, given their direct contact with citizens. In view of all this, it has been decided to equip the new police officers with the same arms as the police officers with the exception of the special armament. Of course, the basic training of police officers will be adapted in this light. They need to learn how to handle guns. By mutual agreement between the staff member concerned and the government, the current police officers can also be equipped with the same weapons. They will also have to receive special training for this purpose. New agents in training will be trained to use the same weapons other than the special weapons. The current police officers who have not had the training can also follow that training. They shall decide, in consultation with their Chief Constable, whether that is advisable or not. As regards the career of the police officer, it was agreed to valorize it. The process of social promotion to the basic framework is therefore being adapted. Among other things, it has been decided not to set up a selection committee anymore and to professionalise the department chief's advice. In addition to the personality test, social promotion is no longer organized in the form of a competition, but as a classic exam. Thus, police officers who have been declared fit by the Deliberation Commission will be able to pass on to the basic training of the basic framework. You undoubtedly know the difference between a competition and a classic exam. Secondly, since the draft texts are by no means intended to change the police powers of police officers, the distinction between a police officer and a police inspector is still relevant. So we are simply changing the fact that they are allowed to carry weapons and the possibility of stepping up to the inspector's statute. We don't change the job content of the agents. The police powers of police officers differ from the police powers of police inspectors. The latter are competent for the exercise of all tasks of judicial and administrative police, while the police competence of police officers is limited to the police of road traffic, the monitoring of compliance with municipal regulations, a specific intervention power in the event of detection of a crime or malpractice in the act and assistance to police officers. Draft texts on the status of members of the future Security Corps are now being prepared. I will return to that in due course. Due to current events, it was necessary to act now for police officers. This does not rule out any further consideration being given to the simplification of the police status in general and to the police compensation system in the form of a more functional remuneration in particular. We'll have the debate. Given the circumstances, I've made some decisions for the police officers. They will be consistently extended later in the wider statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u67	I understand the circumstances have evolved. For us, it was particularly important for the training to be followed by those eligible for arms control. That has happened in the meantime. Does the Chief Constable have full decision-making powers for police officers already in service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u68	The individual also has a say. If a Chief Constable says someone would do the best they can, and that person says he doesn't want to, then the Chief Constable will take that into account in the task.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u69	If a police officer insists on carrying a gun, then a chief of police can say he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u70	In theory, a chief of police can say that, but I'm assuming this makes the police officer more employable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u71	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u72	Mr Top is still in another committee, so his question No 10810 is temporarily postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u73	Minister, I am sorry to arrive a little on the back with a question that is already dated. My few days of absence and the very important agenda of the questions you had to answer before make it happen only now. I was wondering what led in particular to the resignation of one of your former colleagues, namely a series of recommendations that had been transmitted by the European Commission on airport security. As Minister of the Interior and Security, have you been aware, at any time, of these recommendations? Have your administration or firm been involved in a meeting? It would appear that there would have been a meeting to explain the various recommendations made by the European Commission for the airport. At this meeting, there were members of the administration (DGTA) but it appears that there were others. I know that the European directive requires that these recommendations be forwarded to the Minister for Mobility, but I was wondering, since this is about security, if beyond that, your administration, yourself or your firm had been associated in any way. Could you also tell us what action has been taken on these recommendations, in addition to the controls that have, of course, been very controversial? What specific long-term measures are implemented in terms of airport security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u74	Mr Minister, the question has been tabled some time ago and there has been some evolution in the meantime. Among other things, the police union filed a strike notice on 17 March. A compromise was reached on 1 April after social dialogue. The agreement would contain 8 points, the most important of which, as everyone knows by now, is access control. All passengers and their luggage will now be checked. In addition, the airport was monitored. Eighty soldiers would be present every day, as would thirty extra agents from the local police zones. The agreement also concerned the purchase of new equipment which the airport police consider necessary. The police unions received an envelope of up to 2 million euros for this purpose. They would then also submit a list of the exact needs. In addition, 200 additional staff would be added to all airports in the coming year, which will mainly be used for screening. As long as necessary, a daily evaluation is planned. This evaluation has often been carried out, as we have heard from the press. The question at that time was to clarify the agreement; now I would rather like to inform you of the state of play in the current situation. What is the result of the inventory of the equipment the aviation police think they need? What participation do the police unions have in building the new departure hall? Can we expect additional men for the screening at the airports? I know this takes time, but can you give me a timetable for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u75	Mrs Matz, first of all, I was not the recipient of the airport security documents, if you make a good reference to the European Commission documents that we know. The aviation policy is solely the subject of the Schengen assessment on border control and can then provide solutions to best satisfy the remarks made. With regard to your second question in de eerste vraag van mevrouw Gabriëls, already in 2015, the TO3 - optimalisation table 3 - has increased the number of Gosselies and Bierset. As for Zaventem, it had been planned to increase the capacity to 435 FTE. The budget for this was obtained in February 2016. In view of the latest events, it was decided to strengthen the capacity of the aviation police with 200 people. In connection with the safety dispositive, six components were replaced at the airport. First, ANPR cameras on the access road to the airport. Secondly, random checks on vehicles on the entry road. Thirdly, supervision of the other two access points to the airport. Fourth, patrols in the parking lot. Fifth, a systematic check of all passengers in the check-in zone: identity and boarding pass, then porch and x-ray scan of luggage. Sixth, control of anyone who wants to enter the arrivals hall. That operative was evaluated on a daily basis. We have put this in place at the time the airport opened at 20% of its capacity; that was five or six days after the attacks. Everyone then realized that this would not be possible if the airport reopened at full capacity. However, I fully understand the traumatic experience of staff, both civil servants at the airport and police personnel. That is why we took all these measures when the airport opened at 20% to 25% of its capacity. At the meeting of the negotiating committee on 13 April, it was decided to list the needs for modernisation of aviation police equipment. The government makes an additional envelope of 2 million available for this purpose. An important aspect of security is a screening and badge policy, without loopholes, for anyone entering the site. By "site," I mean the airside. The airport consists of two parts: the airside, for which Mobility is competent, and the landside, for which we are competent. The principle for the airside is straightforward: no screening, no badge, no entrance. Particular attention shall be paid to the strict application of the Common Directive MFO-3 of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers on information management in the field of judicial and administrative police, periodic and timely updating of the badge lists and active monitoring of all this in the workplace. With regard to the HRM part, i.e. the security of personnel, a new staff member is recruited to manage the staff. A police officer of LPA, the aviation police, will, together with the social partners, draw up a general HRM action plan before the summer of 2016 to represent the aspects raised in the strike announcement of 17 March 2016. With regard to Ms Gabriëls' second question and Ms Matz' third, a working group including trade unions began its work on Tuesday, 19 April 2016. Many questions will only be answered after discussion in this working group. The task of this working group is to set out the priorities for the necessary equipment. In order to do this, the needs at the various airports have already been requested. These will form the basis for the discussions. Mrs Gabriels, I come to your third question. The police unions are actively involved in the consultations. It is actually a tripartite consultation between the unions, we and airport operator BIAC. They are all actively involved in the development of the final structures and operatives and in the distribution of the tasks of the respective actors in the field. Mrs Gabriels and Mrs Matz, I come to your final question. Our actions will focus on the establishment of additional staff and the purchase of equipment. However, some of these actions will be carried out in consultation with airport managers and DG Air Transport, which are essential partners in certain areas. In the short term, we will carry out an evaluation of the structural actions to be carried out with all the partners in this matter and, also, a benchmarking with the services responsible for airport security abroad. You will have noticed that, since last week, the airport has returned to 80% of its capacity. We have had to face serious problems at first; we cannot deny that. But, thanks to the decisions made, as I explained in my reply to Mr. Top, the problems were solved. Currently, the system is such that every person entering the airport can be controlled. So it's a sample. People are being picked out who are being controlled. Everyone has a chance of being checked out. I believe that this has solved the problems, which have also allowed us to solve chaos for a day and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u76	Minister, I understand that you are probably not receiving the Commission's recommendations on airport safety. However, a meeting was held at which the Commission explained its recommendations and attended by members of the Administration (DG Mobility). Other administrative members were present and I still don't know who. This response may be given in another committee. I wonder what the other Belgian partners could be around the table and in what way. On this question, unfortunately, I did not have an answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, no one could deny that there has been chaos, but it has remained rather limited in time. Evaluations and adjustments have been made fairly quickly. So I think there has been an accurate response. It was also important, as you say, to take into account at first the traumatic experiences of the staff there. However, I believe that everyone realises that the current system is more realistic and more manageable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 10863 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, this is still an issue because, by consulting this morning's press review, I learned that some members of the US secret services are currently in Belgium in order to help our services to better investigate the fight against terrorism. I do not know if this question is still so relevant, but I am counting on you, Minister, to tell me more about it. In the wake of the attacks of 22 March, during which American citizens also lost their lives, Washington immediately announced its intention to send a team of investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to support the Belgian police in their investigations. This aid would ultimately have proved valuable, since it was the facial recognition software provided by the American investigators "Next generation identification system (NGIS)", which would have allowed Mohamed Abrini to be formally identified as the third suspect of the attack at the Brussels National airport. In addition, the Belgian investigators also reportedly entrusted their American counterparts with copies of the computer equipment seized during the last searches. The U.S. police would have finally provided support to the Regional Counter Crime Unit (RCCU) to deal with the workload caused by the investigations into the attacks in Brussels. Minister, my questions are as follows. Do your services confirm the cooperation of the Belgian and American investigative services in these different areas? Have other forms of cooperation also been undertaken between our two departments? Is there, to date, a cooperation agreement between the police and judicial services between Belgium and the United States? If so, are your services planning to strengthen the survey in order to optimize the resources made available in the context of this survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u80	Following the attacks in Brussels on 22 March, I can confirm that the Federal Police, and in particular the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels, are cooperating with the US Federal Services in all areas relevant to the investigation: exchange of information, expertise in explosives, interviews with American victims, identification of fatal victims,... In 2011, Belgium and the United States signed a bilateral agreement to strengthen cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, including terrorism. The Treaty entered into force on 22 May 2014. The relevant police services in both countries are currently examining how to further strengthen their cooperation. This was one of the objectives of the visit of the Assistant to the President responsible for security matters: how can we expand our cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u81	Your department, Minister, is planning to set up a specialized assistance service (SAS) in 21 police areas in the near future. The aim is thus to create privileged partnerships at the local level for the special units of the Federal Police (CGSU). SAS will indeed intervene on the front line, waiting for the arrival of the latter. It is anticipated that each unit will deploy a capacity of 10 to 60 trained and over-equipped personnel to participate in high-risk missions. Candidates will be screened out after a selection based on rigorous and playoff physical and psychological tests. In addition, the federal government is committed to funding the training of these SAS units, while each local level will allocate the budget it considers necessary for the creation and implementation of its unit. Do you have a timetable specifying the deadline to which you expect to make these 21 specialized support service units operational? Do you plan monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to ensure, in particular, that each of these units has the means at local level to carry out their front-line mission? What mechanisms does your department plan to implement in order to ensure optimal complementarity between specialized assistance services and special units of the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u82	On 21 July 2014 the GPI 81 on the general reference framework for special assistance within the local police was published. The decision to establish a special assistance unit in an area is the responsibility of the Chief of Staff. To date, 21 police areas have shown interest. The establishment of these units required collaboration between the National Coordinator and the Area Chiefs to identify needs, as well as between the expert technicians appointed by the police zones and the Federal Police Units, the Directorates of the Special Units (DSUs), the Protection Directorates (DAPs) and the Working Groups. Circular GPI 81 states that quality standards, procedures and certified scenarios will be developed within the Integrated Police. The necessary means and special weaponry will be specified. When we talk about quality standards, we talk about competency profiles, selection criteria, minimum training, evaluation, follow-up, etc. In February 2015, a national training coordinator was assigned. The planned GPI 81 Master trainers training will be held in September-October this year. It was not possible to consider it earlier because of a lack of training capacity. This is now guaranteed for September. The national coordinator with the heads of corps involved in the creation of a special assistance unit agreed, at the meeting on 18 February this year, two principles. First, the acquisition of a minimum of specific means of protection, including the ballistic shield, in relation to the particular level of risk faced by members of special assistance units. In view of the risks of level 2 intervention, it is essential for the safety of members of the special units that they be equipped with the basic safety kit. Secondly, a supervisory structure. The chosen training structure makes it possible to ensure that the master trainers give their lesson while respecting what was taught to them. This will allow us to ensure the uniformity sought despite the implementation of an intermediate level of training. This supervisory structure will rely largely again on the expertise of the DSU and possibly the DAP. The advantage is that we ensure, by the very nature of this structure, the verification of the training skills, at least as regards the master trainers who will be completely in charge of the sessions given to the trainers. Therefore, this verification will also have to be carried out with regard to the latter. Thus, in order to ensure the level of pedagogical competence of trainers, a system of supervision is proposed. Each trainer trained on the basis of the train-trainer training will then have to provide, in whole or in part, training on the supervision of federal or local experts. For training, a minimum standard of 96 hours of training per year, or 8 hours per month, is chosen. The objective to be achieved will be the quality of the actions taken by the members of the UAS. To ensure the quality of training, a follow-up system is proposed and is divided into five categories: interzonal follow-up, supralocal follow-up, intraprovincial integrated training, federal integrated local training and workshop. The General Inspection has not yet received an assessment report but is regularly informed of the situation. Pending quality standards, certified procedures, scenarios and training, the General Inspection has not yet carried out an inspection in the field. As part of an ongoing inspection mission concerning the weapons warehouse to the local police, special attention was paid to the storage of special assistance weapons. In the meantime, the Inspectorate General has provided me with an initial draft report. In addition to a number of recommendations, the report contains an initial analysis from which a specific need for clarification is derived for the concept of "special assistance". The draft report has been analysed by my staff in order to provide the necessary clarifications. This report will be sent to the addressees concerned. One of the recommendations concerns the forecasting of a fixed number of headings in the annual assessment report of the police areas concerned. The response was sent on April 18 of this year to the AEG, to the inspection. Finally, the national coordinator and the heads of corps involved in the creation of special assistance units agreed at the meeting on 18 February that the integrated local-federal training will be organised at least once a year for the one hand, to stimulate synergy and collaboration between the special assistance of the local police and the intervention and specialized support of the federal police and on the other hand, to highlight the possible lack of cohesion and understanding between the members of the various units. The joint exercises will only demonstrate the shortcomings in the application of this principle, the aim being that, whatever the actors, they will be able to work together in exercise but obviously also in the field of operations where they may be required to carry out joint missions. By training together and speaking the same language, complementarity is ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u83	Thank you for this very specific information. If I understand correctly, local and federal police recruitment will only be done in-house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u84	Questions Nos 10885 and 10886 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u85	Mr Minister, according to Gilles de Kerchove, the European Union's coordinator for the fight against terrorism, the takeover of a nuclear power plant by terrorists could become a reality. At the end of April, we learned that a German nuclear power plant, 120 km northwest of Munich, was repeatedly attacked by hackers. Even if the plant officials told the press that these malicious programmes did not endanger the critical facilities of the reactors, this new warning should be taken very seriously. Has our country ever been hit by such attacks? What measures are in place by our government to address this threat and to raise the level of protection? Are operators sufficiently prepared to deal with them? What about international cooperation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u86	Mr Blanchart, I have already answered all these questions at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior on 20 April in response to Mr Nollet's oral question No 10422. I can tell you that in no analysis of the OCAM, there has been any mention of specific threats to nuclear sites. Immediately after the discovery of the photos of some officials of the SCK-CEN in Mol, I asked the OCAM to carry out a precise analysis. No indication of a threat was provided to us, however, knowing that the entire territory was at alert level 3. The protection of sites by the military has nothing to do with a specific threat. This is the follow-up to IAEA recommendations, in collaboration with Electrabel. All other details can be found in the answer I gave to Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u87	Minister, I will therefore refer to this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u88	Mr. Demon is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u89	You will not be unaware of this, Minister. You were allowed to take part in the pre-zone formation of a rescue zone in Antwerp. The FVO draws the alarm: "If we continue like this, there will be no volunteers left in five years." Given the high number of volunteers among Belgian firefighters, almost 70% or 11 000 of the 16 000 firefighters, volunteers are crucial to the operation of our firefighters. You are currently working on a campaign to attract voluntary firefighters. What specific action points will the campaign contain in concrete terms? When will the campaign be completed and start? Paid educational leave is already an important choice to increase the attractiveness of the voluntary status. I have stressed several times that it is very important to make the work-family combination sustainable and feasible for voluntary firefighters as well. However, with the low success rates for the fitness tests few volunteers continue to influx. How do you intend to increase that success rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u90	Recruiting firefighters is a very local issue. The commitment often goes from parent to child, among friends and even in local youth movements. That is why the recruitment campaign for firefighters is designed to provide the necessary campaign material to the relief zones for at least five years. The zones can use the equipment in turn when they consider it necessary to recruit fire volunteers in their area. They can ask the fire school in their neighborhood to organise federal fitness tests themselves or they can organise them themselves. My services will complement and support local actions at national level through, first of all, a national recruitment website containing, among other things, the dates of the federal fitness tests and the vacancies in the various aid zones. Secondly, printing is being developed at national level. These include posters, advertisements, flyers, online banners and t-shirts for running competitions, which can be printed and distributed through the zones. Thirdly, social media is used. For example, a Facebook page will be managed by firefighter volunteers for candidate firefighters. Fourthly, a series of films is being developed, in which the entire journey from candidate to firefighter is overflowing, for use on the website, on the social media and during info sessions. Finally, my services are still negotiating some national actions, such as a state of sporting events. The campaign will be launched in July this year and will run for five years. The aid zones will therefore be able to download and print the necessary campaign material for five years at times when it is most necessary for them to recruit firefighters. The regularity of national actions will depend on the available budget in the coming years. Now I come to your second series of questions. With regard to educational leave, the Flemish recognition committee responded positively to my initiative to consider 490 hours of training, including initial training as a firefighter. That never worked before. By applying educational leave, it is more feasible for a volunteer to combine the training with his or her private life and professional life. Discussions are now under way with the Walloon Region in order to obtain something similar. The feedback we are currently receiving is very positive. There is the new royal decree on training, which simplifies the transfer to higher positions specifically for the volunteers. Together with the educational leave and the recruitment campaign, I think we are responding to the legitimate and shared concerns of the FVO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u91	Mr President, that is a very satisfactory answer for me, so I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u92	The agenda says that we are now ready to deal with the questions put together. No 10948 by Mr Dallemagne and No 10948 by Mr Dallemagne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Probably they're both on the Committee of Inquiry right now. That is why we are postponing these questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 10982 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u93	The German Minister of the Environment has asked Belgium to temporarily close two failed and cracked nuclear reactors, as long as questions about them remain unanswered. The German Minister considered that additional tests should be carried out, based on the fact that the independent German commission on nuclear safety could not confirm that the reactors were sufficiently safe in the event of a failure. It states that such tests would demonstrate that the concerns of the German neighbours are taken seriously. This last consideration speaks volumes about how Belgium, its government and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) take into account the well-substantiated criticism of the relaunch of cracked reactors. In addition to the fact that this German position is in line with the conclusions already expressed by many scientists, I am particularly concerned about the way in which AFCN has been able to respond to German demand. Mr Minister, what does Mr Bens mean when he suggests in his official statement that Germany is not cooperating constructively? On what specific elements does AFCN allow itself to assert, as it does in La Libre Belgique of 21 April (of which I have a copy here), that Minister Hendricks is antinuclear and that she is instrumental in an analysis of its nuclear security agency? Do you not consider this to be a crude answer, unworthy of what we are entitled to expect from an agency that should be independent, neutral and at the service of the protection and security of our fellow citizens? Is the summit not reached when the AFCN, led by a former owner of a nuclear power plant which it now has to inspect, allows itself to question the independence of the German Nuclear Safety Agency? Here again, I ask you to give the specifics that allow the Agency to lay such a serious charge. I ask you not to remain in a philosophical debate but to bring precise elements of answer to each of the points I mention in my question. Until when will you accept such a drift in the statements made by the Federal Agency against those who, with supporting arguments, question its analyses and positions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u94	I will not recall the facts as my colleague Jean-Marc Nollet has just done. I would simply say that, in addition to what has just been said, we had a nuclear safety sub-committee yesterday, where the majority categorically refused the request of four political groups in the House to hear the German minister's expectations regarding the micro-fabricated reactors of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, to hear German technicians and experts, which is even more surprising. Since you took up your duties as Minister of the Interior, you have always said that in the field of nuclear safety you would follow the advice of your Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which I have always found healthy. I have also told you several times in committee or in plenary. But today it is the credibility of this agency that is being undermined by a whole series of elements, including the audit on which you will be questioned later. What bothers me is that I don't have the answers to the questions coming from Germany and now from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, even if we don't talk about them. Minister, do you know exactly what the German Minister is asking for? What additional examinations are required? What would be the cost and duration of these reviews? Have you given an official response to the German and Luxembourg governments? Would you agree to set up a group of joint experts between Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg to examine Belgian nuclear reactors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u95	Variation n° 5 on the same theme! On 5 and 6 April, AFCN hosted representatives of the BMU (Bundesministerium für Umvelt) and the RSK (Reaktor Sicherheitskommission) at its premises. The purpose of this bilateral meeting was to exchange information on certain current issues, including the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. It was thus a meeting comparable to those regularly organised by AFCN with its French, Dutch, Luxembourg and Swiss counterparts, aimed at strengthening cooperation with the security authorities of the border countries of Belgium. On 5 April, at the opening of the meeting, the Director of Reactor Safety of the BMU stated, by means of a presentation of three slides containing no detailed questions, that the BMU would stand against the operation of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. He then left the meeting, so he did not participate in the exchange of information scheduled that day and extended the following day on the initiative of AFCN to answer all the questions of the German delegation. BMU did not respond to AFCN's request for advance notice of the questions that would be asked at the meeting. However, this is a common practice in bilateral exchanges, especially in the case of such complex issues as Doel 3 and Tihange 2, in order to prepare constructively for the time-limited discussions. At no time did the supplementary questions put by the German delegation on 5 and 6 April bring new elements, which AFCN would not have taken into account in its assessment of the safety of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. These complementary questions have an interest in scientific research but are not useful in judging the safety of the operation of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. In other words, these questions do not in any way call into question the conclusions of the PSAN. Despite this, Minister Hendricks concludes that AFCN should not have allowed the continued operation of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. The German security authority is an integral part of the BMU and as such is headed by a politically elected person. This is not a problem in itself, provided that the BMU expresses itself independently on the files. Minister Hendricks' view of the nuclear option for electricity generation is clear. His interventions in the media or the press releases published on the PMU website are sufficiently clear. For example, his statement of 10 March 2016 entitled "Nuclear power does not have future". Having said that, AFCN has always affirmed its willingness to collaborate with its German counterparts and has yet to prove this by inviting the German security authority to cross-inspection at the Tihange site on 6 April. I must note, however, that to date, the German safety authority has not yet provided its inspection programme to AFCN in order to plan a cross-inspection at a nuclear power plant in Germany. As regards my reply to the German authority, I have not received any official request from the German side. I have heard from the press the views of German ministers and it is not normal for ministers to communicate via the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u96	Minister, I can see your exasperation. You start by saying "variation n° 5 on the same theme!" I am asking you explicitly about the comments made by the Federal Agency. I hear Minister Hendricks has already spoken in various places against nuclear power. But if anyone has spoken against nuclear power, are we entitled to consider it an argument not to take into account the elements that it makes? I cannot accept this interpretation, whether it be the German minister, an environmentalist, an environmental association, or a citizen who can be for or against nuclear power. Is that an argument? I can't accept it! I feel like in this case, the agency is a bit like the three little monkeys. She closes her eyes, she closes her ears, she says nothing; she closes her mouth. That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u97	We answered every question. A few questions remain open to which we have given an outline of the answer. It's not true to pretend that you're silent and that you're shutting your ears! The truth is that all information is transmitted. We even invited them to an inspection visit, but they declined the invitation. I repeat, all information is transmitted transparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u98	Why, minister, can't we receive them to hear their point of view? Why do people here refuse to open their ears, hear and see? This is outrageous! We are told that the only intention is to hear the AFCN, that the enormous problems of independence of the Agency are known. We'll talk about the audit later. We want to hear this different view and the majority refuses. How else can I consider it to be a confirmation of the attitude of the Federal Agency? The majority closes their eyes, closes their ears and does not dare to take up a speech in relation to this issue of cracked power stations. It is still not nothing that Germany tells you and confirms that it does not agree to the re-launching of the power plants. And here in Parliament, it is impossible to have this debate! You'll tell me it's not you, it's not the executive, it's the parliament. Nevertheless, you have an influence, you have been a parliamentarian, you know that you can use your influence. There was a blocking yesterday in the subcommittee, with four votes in favour and four against and the decision is suspended since there is equality. You claim to be transparent, ready for anything. I'll take your word. Accept, take the steps with your group to accept the hearing we are asking for and we will see! But in the absence of a change of attitude regarding this request for hearing, you do not publicly assume the positions to be taken on the factual elements. This will be an opportunity to present the factual evidence. You say they have no question, they only have three slides! When they come to parliament, it will be an opportunity to ask them questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u99	Minister, you are questioning the independence of the German Supervisory Authority. However, in a few minutes' time, we will discuss an audit that also challenges its independence from the economic and political world. You point to a problem, not only among the Germans, but especially among us, since we think they are independent when an audit tells us the opposite. Yesterday in this sub-committee on nuclear safety, four groups voted against four other groups and we were prevented from hearing the Germans. This is completely unacceptable! I understand that it was not your group that was most hostile to demand, but rather the MR group. I do not understand, this discussion would be much less lively if we could hear what the German experts have to tell us. I do not understand why they cannot be heard in Parliament. It gives an impression of a lack of transparency, it looks like we want to hide something. I've never seen that! If I had been a Member of Parliament in the majority, I would have been really bored with this kind of situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u100	Mr President, I should like to make it clear at the outset that I do not understand why these questions have been joined. Of course, these are falsifications, but for me they are separate files. I assume your answers will shed some light on this. Minister, the French Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN) announced on its website that it was informed on 21 January 2016 of a falsification of control reports in the nuclear sector by the mechanical company SBS, a subsidiary of the Genoyer Group. This company produces parts to be integrated into industrial equipment by manufacturers, some of which supply the nuclear industry. The company supplied products with wrongfaces accompanied by falsified certificates, e.g. concealing non-compliance with the expected specifications of the material tested. Minister, can you tell us what kind of problems these falsifications lead to and what is the extent of the misappropriation? When did they start? Are any documents supplied by this company likely to have been used on Belgian nuclear sites? What controls, investigations or inspections has the AFCN initiated to be clear about it? What are the conclusions of these controls and the lessons learned from such discoveries? I come to my question about the anomalies discovered at the Creusot. Following the detection of an anomaly on the Flamanville EPR tank, in April 2015, Areva committed to the encouragement of the ASN, a review of the quality of manufacturing at its Creusot Forge plant. This in-depth review, which only dates back to 2010, was considered insufficient by the NSA because it did not provide an overall view of Creusot Forge's organization and practices, the quality of the parts produced, and the facility's safety culture. At the end of 2015, the ASN asked Areva to complete this review. I note in passing this very strong attitude of the ASN, quite the opposite of some of the reactions of our Belgian agency. On 25 April 2016, Areva informed the NSA of the first results of this supplementary analysis. They reveal irregularities in the production control of approximately 400 parts produced since 1965. These irregularities consist of inconsistencies, modifications or omissions in manufacturing records involving manufacturing parameters or test results. According to some information, an operator performing part tests entered standard results on the manufacturing file so as not to have to justify too high values. It is the entire credibility of the industry and its control that is at stake. It seems that this would be a widespread practice beyond the Creusot plant alone. Minister, you are aware that the Tihange 1 tank was manufactured in this factory. Can you tell me at what point AFCN has initiated steps to know the impact of the discovery of these anomalies on the Belgian nuclear fleet? Above all, can you tell me what parts of our park are affected or potentially affected by these anomalies (storage tanks, steam generators, etc.)? What has AFCN put in place to verify that such falsifications have not occurred in plants other than Creusot? I am thinking in particular of those which are at the origin of the cracked tanks of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. What are the consequences of these discoveries in relation to each of our plants? What political lessons do you learn from these discoveries from serious anomalies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u101	Mr President, Mr Nollet, since these facts have taken place abroad, we do not currently have detailed information on these two points. Structural cooperation between the AFCN and the ASN is planned in the near future in the framework of bilateral cooperation between Belgium and France. The AFCN will address this issue for more information. In the press release published by the ASN on its website on 3 May 2016, the French regulator announced that it had asked AREVA to send it as soon as possible the list of relevant parts and its analysis of the consequences on the safety of the installations in relation to the operators concerned. During their planned consultation, AFCN will request the ASN to inform it as soon as possible whether the components of Belgian installations can be affected. In addition, the AFCN and the ASN have long maintained excellent relationships. It is therefore certain that, if the ASN has concrete elements that would impact the safety of Belgian nuclear installations, it will communicate them without hesitation to AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u102	Minister, thank you. Do you know when this next consultation will take place, so that I don't put my question too quickly? I'll come back, you know me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u103	I don't know the exact date. I'll check it out. But I can tell you that once we have the answers, we will communicate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u104	Is that valid for both?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u105	For both, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u106	Because these are two different things. But I understand now, if you don't have the information about either of them. I will therefore put the question "in suspense" and return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u107	We'll let you know the date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u108	Minister, can you explain to me the elements that led the AFCN to conduct several security inspections in December 2015, as part of the investigation into the reporting of an incident at the 150 kV high voltage station at the Doel Nuclear Generating Station? Was this high-voltage post listed as a critical infrastructure under the legislation of the European Critical Infrastructure Protection Programme? Thank you for telling us more about the incident and the results of these inspections. As a result, have additional security measures been taken in relation to the high-voltage stations at our various nuclear power plants? If so, which ones? In addition, can you explain to me exactly what happened to the information published in the magazine Metamag under the pen of Michel Lhomme, according to which a drone would cause an explosion at the Doel nuclear power plant in early November 2015? I haven't read it anywhere else, but I'd rather ask you to be sure. Do you confirm that an investigation was opened into a drone theft at Doel's nuclear power plant? What are the specific damage caused by this incident? I would also like to take this question to ask you about the state of your information about the sabotage of the Doel 4 plant in August 2014. Finally, still in connection with this sabotage, how many staff members have gone through the lie detector and how many have refused to submit to it? What follow-up has been given to those who have refused?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u109	Mr.Nollet, on 9 December 2015, Elia informed AFCN that she had found, during work on the 150 kV post at the Doel nuclear power plant site, that two red recording maps were no longer in their original position. These recording cards are used to prevent a portion of the high voltage station from being out of service and unusable. They are therefore a safety measure designed to protect technicians working on the job from the risk of a possible short circuit. In order not to leave anything to chance, the possibility of a malicious act was considered. The AFCN dispatched inspectors to the scene and, following investigation, the inspectors concluded that there was no evidence of any malicious action and that this trail was highly implausible. The 150 kV high voltage station is a critical infrastructure within the meaning of existing regulations. For reasons of confidentiality, I cannot add anything about any additional measures that would have been taken to secure critical infrastructure at nuclear sites. AFCN is not aware of an incident involving a drone that would have caused an explosion at the Doel Nuclear Generating Station site. It is apparently an urban legend that was allegedly launched by people seeking to give a spectacular explanation of the fire that broke out on 31 October 2015 at the height of a Doel 1 transformer. With regard to the judicial investigation into the events in Doel 4's unit in August 2014, I can only repeat that it is still under way and that, therefore, the secrecy of the investigation is strict. You are right to recall that it has already taken two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u110	Minister, it seems to me important, in this kind of situation, to rule out far-fetched assumptions. This is the case, in this case, with the history of the drone. Your answer is clear and I thank you for that. With regard to the high voltage station, I understand that you do not communicate the additional measures that have been taken, but I wanted to know if there had been any. I was interested in principle, not content. For Doel 4, I am fully aware that the investigation is still under way, but, like you, I think it is beginning to last and even drag. That said, my question was not about the results of the investigation, but about the number of people who refused the detector. This aspect has nothing to do with the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u111	Mr Nollet, yes, it is a part of the investigation. Perhaps my colleague Geens will be able to answer you, but that is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u112	Minister, what about the principle of additional measures for the high voltage station? They've been taken, haven't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u113	Yes. But, for security reasons, I...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u114	Yes, you don't give the content, but you confirm that there have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u117	Mr. Secretary, until when do you have time? Six joint questions are dealt with under item 35. Mr Calvo and Mrs Temmerman then asked to warn them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u118	Until 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u119	Up to 12:30? I'll be fine. We will warn them. We will keep speaking time short, as the Rules of Procedure state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u120	Minister, can you give me a precise account of the history, since 1 January 2015, of the threat levels, on the one hand, of nuclear power plants and, on the other hand, of the other nuclear sites? When were we at Level 2, when and why did we move to Level 3? How long was Level 4 applied etc.- Is that what you're saying? It is not always obvious to be part of the nuclear elements. Moreover, do you confirm to me that a burglary was carried out a few days after the Paris attacks of November 2015, at a nuclear site where radioactive substances are stored and that it was as a result of this burglary that the OCAM decided to raise the level of the threat? Can you also tell us when this burglary took place and what site was the target of it? In this regard, I would also like to know whether the perpetrators of the burglary have been identified, and whether the investigation is in the direction of terrorism, if any, in connection with other facts. I am thinking in particular of the video surveillance of a head of the SCK-CEN, the sabotage of Doel 4, and the withdrawals of accreditations referred to. It's about understanding what happened and what triggered one or the other. Finally, the newspapers of RedaktionsNetzwerk Deutschland disseminated information that Salah Abdeslam held information at his home in Molenbeek about the Jülich nuclear research centre in North Rhine-Westphalia, as well as photos of Wolfgang Marquardt, chairman of the centre's board of directors. Do you confirm this information? What is the connection between this discovery and the ten hours of recording of a video targeting an official of Mol's site and discovery of Mohamed Bakkali's wife, who was charged with the Paris bombings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u121	Mr Nollet, as you know, the level of threat to the whole country, including nuclear facilities, is determined by the OCAM. Between January 2015 and 22 March 2016, the level of threat to nuclear power plants and other nuclear facilities was set at level 2, i.e. average. Between 22 and 24 March 2016, following the attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek, this level rose to 4, i.e. very serious. On March 24, 2016, this level was changed to 3, i.e. serious. We have no indication that there is a concrete plan of terrorist action towards a nuclear facility in Belgium. This is more of a precautionary level following information discovered during the operations carried out in the context of the attacks of 22 March 2016 and for which investigations are still under way. There was no burglary at nuclear sites after the Paris bombings. On the other hand, a burglary was perpetrated on the campus of a university hospital in early December 2015, but no radioactive material was stolen. According to information available to AFCN, this burglary is not in the terrorist sphere and has no connection with other events in this sphere. At the end of 2015, investigators found that terrorist-related people had been spying on a high-ranking representative of the nuclear sector to which you refer. Following this discovery, OCAM confirmed Level 2 and formally added the word "with increased vigilance". In practice, it had already been applied for some time in the nuclear sector. Following the terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo and those in Paris in November 2015, AFCN had already imposed additional security measures on nuclear operators on several occasions. Directly after the 22 March attacks, the level of threat to the nuclear sector was raised to 4. On 24 March, this level was reduced to 3 and is still applicable today. The press reports that Salah Abdeslam held information about the Jülich nuclear research centre are not confirmed by our police or intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u122	Minister, thank you. I am surprised that the nuclear sites have remained at level 2 until the date of the attacks in Brussels when you yourself say that information appears at the end of 2015 - in particular this video - and that at the beginning of March, military personnel are sent to each of the sites waiting for the creation of this famous specific body. Elsewhere in the country, institutions and locations are defined as level 3 but nuclear power plants and sites remain at level 2. I see this as a problem of inconsistency in the management of the information available to the OCAM. I am aware that work is under way in the Committee of Inquiry and I will pass this on to my colleagues on to it. I cannot conclude this exchange without telling you of my surprise at the fact that the nuclear sites remained at level 2, when they were targeted, until the day of the attacks!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u123	Minister, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC) organized a radiological measurement exercise on April 13, 2016 in Jumet. The objective was to assess procedures in the event of a radiological emergency. The presence of the Radioelements Institute in Fleurus obviously requires a high level of preparation and coordination for all services. Can you tell us the results of this exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u124	In its capacity as coordinator of the Radiological Measurement Cell, the AFCN, with the assistance of civil protection and the National Radioelement Institute, organized a radiological measurement exercise on 13 April 2016 in Jumet. It should be noted that this exercise is similar to the exercise organized on 16 March 2016 in Mol by AFCN in collaboration with civil protection and the Nuclear Energy Study Centre. Although the final debriefing of the April 13, 2016 exercise in Jumet will take place in mid-May 2016, I can deliver you the first conclusions exchanged during the hot debriefing. Overall, the exercise went well. The base camp, the rallying point of the players in the measurement cell, was set up. Its deployment and practical organization have been tested with satisfactory results. As one of the major challenges for the base camp is to remain a non-contaminated area, particular attention was paid to radiological triage, i.e., checking the contamination of the responders and their vehicles prior to entry or exit from the base camp. The first results are also positive. Communication between the base camp and the local coordination cell, from where the mission orders start and where the results of the measurements are recovered and validated, has generally worked well. However, there is room for improvement with regard to the technologies used for the transfer and processing of measurement data and for the dispatch and geolocation of vehicles on mission. But let me remind you that the evaluation will take place in mid-May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u125	Mr President, Minister, this question refers to a question raised last month about the German government's official request to temporarily close the two cracked nuclear reactors: Tihange 2 and Doel 3. In fact, just two days later, the operator of the Doel 3 nuclear power plant announced that the reactor would be shut down following further incidents. We could introduce a question on the subject every month because incidents are frequent and recurring! Moreover, at the time Doel 3 was closed, the Doel 1 reactor was shut down for repair. Doel 2 was also at the stop for planned maintenance. So there was only Doel 4 that worked! Electrabel continues to speak of "normal procedure", considering that increasingly regular incidents would be proof of proper functioning. This reasoning is paradoxical. Yet, like the German government and a series of experts, we can ask ourselves questions about these repeated technical problems occurring in the aging Belgian nuclear park. Minister, how do you explain this new incident at Doel 3? How do you objectively explain this problematic accumulation of incidents? Should we not reconsider the answer to the German Government and accept its request to temporarily suspend cracked reactors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u126	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I can only provide the same answers to the same questions. For your first question, I refer you to the answers given in my very long answer. I'm really answering in detail. I have given a very long answer to your colleague's questions on the situation of nuclear power plants. You link these incidents to Minister Hendricks' assessment. I have to tell you that if you are a little familiar with the files, you know very well that these incidents are not related to Minister Hendricks' request in the press. Let me turn to my answer to your second question. I refer to the answer given in plenary last Wednesday. I replied, and the week before that, my colleague Van Overtveldt also replied. But I can add that I, as the minister responsible for nuclear safety, have not received any requests from our German colleague Hendricks. I read the statements in the press, but I think you will accept that I do not react to every article in the press. Since we have not received any requests from Germany, I can only refer to the reply I have already given on several occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u127	Mr Minister, I had indeed heard that answer that you made to my colleague ten minutes ago. Perhaps we should have included our questions. It is true that I dealt with two questions at a time. I understand that you are not responding if you have not received an official request from Germany. At the same time, this is not the first time that concerns have arisen from Germany and the Netherlands. If we add the many incidents... we can give an answer to one incident, out of two, out of three incidents, but from the moment when they repeat all the time, and when we know that our nuclear power plants are old, old and problematic, we also need to know how to conduct a general reflection. I note that Germany and the Netherlands are concerned about our power plants. The Belgian government seems to be more concerned about Electrabel's profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u128	Mr Minister, the Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) met on 21 April in Luxembourg. As a follow-up to the meeting held on 24 March 2016 following the Brussels attacks, the discussions focused in particular on the use and interoperability of databases and the Commission's proposals for the Smart Borders package. In the joint statement at the extraordinary meeting on 24 March, your colleagues and yourself considered that "systematic feeding, consistent use and interoperability of European and international databases in the field of security, travel and migration must be urgently increased by making full use of technological advances and by including, from the outset, safeguards for the protection of privacy". The Commission has proposed, in the Smart Borders package, an entry/exit system and a targeted revision of the Schengen Borders Code. The aim is to improve border management. At the JHA Council on 21 April, the European coordinator on combating terrorism, Gilles de Kerchove, indicated that there are still significant gaps in the supply of Europol data by EU Member States. In particular, the document presented noted that Europol's Focal Point Travellers database contained in mid-April only 2,956 verified foreign terrorist fighters entered by the Member States. It is estimated that 5,000 European nationals travelled to Syria and Iraq to join the Islamic State or other extremist groups. More than 90% of these contributions in 2015 came from only five Member States. Mr Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about the importance of information exchange and the contribution of all Member States to databases, whether it is an intra-Belgian, intra-European or international exchange of information. Minister, what are the conclusions of the JHA Council of 21 April? Have any progress been made in the Member States' commitment to contribute more significantly to the provision of databases? What does the Smart Borders Commission proposal contain? What position did you defend on behalf of Belgium at the JHA Council? Belgium is an excellent provider of information for this database. In your previous answer, you indicated that some were gradually starting to reach the train along the way. You had announced at one point that, at the beginning of January, there would be a Belgian database of intelligent data with different levels of security clearance protection. Local police do need a variety of information, but they cannot consult or feed it. We are at the heart of the problem of information exchange in general. I would also like to know what was going on with this Belgian database which you wanted to set up and which we applaud with both hands, because we were well aware in all the cases that we saw going through in the Committee on Terrorism, the Committee on Inquiry or the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that this is where it often hurts, both at Belgian and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u129	Mr. Speaker, Ms.Matz, as far as the legislative framework is concerned, as far as your last question is concerned, the law was passed two weeks ago in the plenary of the House. The Royal Decree implementing the database was presented and passed to the government. As far as software is concerned, the database is already in the testing phase within the police. This phase is almost over and we will be able to move on to the implementation of this database. We are therefore very close to the implementation of this database. With regard to the other questions relating to the Council conclusions, Commissioner Avramopoulos made a series of proposals at last Friday's meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union in Luxembourg with the aim of strengthening the various information systems that currently exist within the European Union and are intended to guarantee the security and management of the external borders. The Commissioner intends to achieve this in several ways. First, by improving, above all, existing systems. The Commission will take initiatives to extend the use of biometrics, initially fingerprints in SIS II, and explore the possibilities of creating new features to make more efficient use of the database. Secondly, Member States will be better monitored to ensure that they are effectively exploiting all existing possibilities, such as systematically verifying, during border checks, whether an identity document is included in the Interpol database of lost and stolen documents. Not all Member States are currently exploiting the possibilities offered by the Prüm Treaty in terms of exchange of information or not fully contributing to Europol databases. Thirdly, by providing for the creation of new data banks recently, the European Parliament has finally agreed to the development of a European PNR system. This is an important breakthrough that will finally allow Member States to exchange information on passengers in a coordinated manner. Our country has not, moreover, waited for the green light of the European Parliament to make the necessary arrangements for the establishment of a national system, in accordance with the European Directive. This is also the case for the Entry-Exit system on which I come back at the end of the answer. As far as the European PNR system is concerned, I must say that it is not entirely a European PNR system. There is now a European framework within which Member States can install their NRP system. I think it would have been better to have a genuine European PNR system. Finally, with a view to greater interoperability between the different databases, it formulates a proposal based on four systems, the basis of which would be the use of a joint search interface which allows the control services to interrogate, by one action, all the databases to which they have access. Other proposals include the interconnectivity of databases, the definition of common criteria for better viewing biometric data in databases and, finally, the single recording of all data and their availability for the different databases. The Commission will set up a working group to study these possibilities taking into account technical, legal and budgetary aspects. In addition, the holding of a closed session provided an opportunity to discuss the elements that had impeded the optimal flow of information transfer and the provision of databases. As regards the provision of databases, the Dutch Presidency will, by the next Council meeting on 9 June, draw up a roadmap containing short- and medium-term proposals to address the various problems. We will actively contribute to that. We are therefore preparing this roadmap together with the Dutch Presidency. With regard to the Commission's Smart Borders proposal, the Entry/Exit system provides for the creation of a new registration system for persons from third countries whenever they travel to the Union for a short stay. They will be registered systematically when they enter the European Union and when they leave it. The objective of this system is threefold. Firstly, to simplify border controls. The registration replaces the stamp affixed to the passport and the access control can be carried out by means of automated portals. Secondly, to counter illegal immigration. This system allows you to have a permanent view of people who exceed the time limits of their residence permit. Thirdly, to combat crime and terrorism. The use of biometric data is used to combat identity and identity document fraud. Like other colleagues, I have welcomed the Commission's proposals. Among other things, I stressed the use of SIS II, which offers a range of opportunities for more efficient exchange of data, particularly with regard to foreign fighters. In terms of PNR data, we need to move forward quickly and aim for maximum cooperation between Belgium and other countries. Discussions are already under way with the Netherlands in particular. I can only agree with the Commission's observation that many countries need to make greater efforts to provide Europol with more information on foreign fighters. I must tell you that we regularly receive a collective report on the exchange of data to Europol. Gilles de Kerchove proposed, and we agreed, that this data be published on a country-by-country basis. It is a bit of naming and blaming, but I find it unacceptable that five countries are responsible for 85% of the data in Interpol's databases. I hope that showing who the right and the wrong students are will motivate other countries to exchange. With regard to the proposals in terms of interoperability, I look forward to the conclusions of the working group. The Commission's proposals are tempting in that they would eventually enable our services to feed and consult the databases more effectively. It goes without saying, however, that these steps must be able to be carried out in compliance with the rules on data protection and, in particular, with the principle of limiting the subject-matter of the processing; their cost must remain realistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u130	Minister, thank you for these very comprehensive answers. Do I have to understand that the European NRP does not involve an obligation to transmit? Let us imagine that there is no Belgian PNR and that you refuse to implement it and transfer this data. Is there no obligation to transmit them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u131	All right. I'm telling you, I missed that information. I didn't understand that. I thought there was an obligation for all Member States to transmit their national NRPs to a European NRP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u132	No. It's a possibility, but it's not an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u133	That is extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u134	Moreover, it is not a European system. Each member country can make its own system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u135	That's right. The situation is the same for the NRP and for the Europol data bank: everyone does it a little as he feels. Objectively, I don't understand! I'm not questioning you. I do not understand that European countries, which are all involved in some way in the movement of terrorist groups or in plans for attacks, do not share information which, if it had been accessible, would perhaps have allowed us to avoid certain things. Whether it is with the Netherlands, with France... We know that all the alleged terrorists we have dealt with in Belgium have circulated throughout Europe and that everyone has some of the information. There's really something I don't understand. I know that this is part of the sovereignty of States and that they are very attached to it. Sovereignty is nice, but there are issues of internal and external security that seem to me to go beyond petty things like "we are going to do it and if we do it on our own, we will do it much better than everyone else"! You realize that's not true. I do not understand how the Commission fails to impose in Europe that the exchange of information be collated within Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u136	In this case, this is not a problem related to the Commission, it is a problem of the European Parliament's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u137	I had hoped that we could have taken up the five questions put together around 12:15, but we only have five minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u138	Mr President, you know I stay longer when I have time, but now I have an appointment. Next time we will start with these questions; that is a good opener.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic411x.u139	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 11119 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 11260 and No. Mr Demeyer's 11261 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 11234 will be answered in the Committee on Health.
