ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u1	Madam President, time is certainly precious. This question has been going on for a long time. It was submitted a few months ago and concerns the follow-up to the file of the ONE, the French-speaking Child and Family, I should say. I shall confine myself to the questions themselves. Madam Secretary, how's the investigation coming? What are the results? If it turns out that the ONE actually charged the prenatal sessions to RIZIV, which is forbidden by law and fraudulent, since how long has that been happening? How many sessions are we talking about in the meantime? How much was already charged for the prenatal ONE sessions at the RIZIV? Since the start of the DGEC's research, are performance still charged, or has it stopped? We need to know that for sure outside the investigation. What possible sanctions do the ONE have to deal with if the DGEC can actually prove the fraud? Should only the unduly invoiced amounts be recovered? How many years can one go back or will there be a penalty in excess of the amounts recovered? What are the possibilities pending the investigation, unless the results are already known?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u2	Mrs Van Camp, I have indeed requested an investigation from the RIZIV. Child and Family have also requested an investigation. The RIZIV has investigated the possible unlawful application of consultations by general practitioners, gynecologists and midwives in the context of the follow-up of pregnancies, both at ONE and at Child and Family. That research has shown that there are actually many differences in organization and vision. However, the facts show that 95% of prenatal care is reimbursed by RIZIV, both in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, and that therefore only a very limited proportion, 5%, comparable for all Länder, is financed by them. The investigation has therefore shown that there is no unlawful invoicing within the current legal framework. A full report of the investigation has been made. If you like, this can be added to the report here, including for the other Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm surprised. Following the publication of the possible practices of the ONE, I contacted Child and Family. The operation of that organisation is indeed completely different, but it does not involve prenatal sessions at all. It is true that there are prenatal sessions in Flanders that are billed to the RIZIV, but those sessions are not offered by Child and Family. The organization will never really recommend those sessions to its customers. That's where the big difference lies. They don't pay back any brake money either. These differences are important for demonstrating fraud in the file. I certainly look forward to the full report, which I shall examine. We will also apply to the Court of Auditors to get to the bottom of this matter, because your answer certainly does not reassure me. I am also not sure that we have seen the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u4	I can only say that it is a comprehensive report. I'll deliver it to all the committee members. Then they can read it themselves, like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u5	We will therefore take note of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u6	Mrs De Coninck and Mr Blanchart are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u7	Madam Minister, in our country about 1 200 women would be given unnecessary chemo every year because gene profiles are not being used. As you know, 9 000 women receive breast cancer every year. These are the results of a study proposed by the Brussels Jules Bordet Institute. Chemotherapy after breast cancer is apparently not necessary if the genetic profile of the tumor gives a minimal chance of metastasis. A number of people question the high number of unnecessary chemo's. In hospitals where everyone is prescribed chemo without thinking, according to UZ Leuven, gene profiles certainly make sense and a high number of women will be spared from chemo. In hospitals where chemo is more nuanced, the impact will be less. Another aspect of these gene profiles is that they are very pricey. In the study the MammaPrint was used and it costs more than 2 600 euros. Therefore, chemo can be saved if the test indicates a low risk, but if the test indicates an increased risk, chemo has to be started. A chemo treatment costs about 7 800 euros. So one has to weigh one against the other a little bit. The Jules Bordet Institute estimates that many patients are being overtreated and that we should therefore reduce those gene profiles. Others fear that this might make cancer treatment quite expensive, should it occur frequently that chemo has to be started after a gene profile. I am not going to comment on this for a while. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to have seen your vision. Will the results of the study of the Jules Bordet Institute be started?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u8	Madam Minister, the honourable Member has already given a very good introduction and I will certainly not repeat it. I would like to add one more element. Also in 2015, there was a KCE study, which examined several of these tests and which you recommended, including to fund a pilot study to see for which type of cancer we should or should not test and which test can be used. You have also linked some data from registration and types of lab. Like my colleague, I would like to ask what happens to this study. After all, I know that this is a very delicate subject. What do you do with the Bordet study, but also with the recommendations of the KCE? Are you going to answer the question of funding a pilot study? How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u9	Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Muylle, thank you for your questions. The large European study MINDACT has indeed shown that for a certain group of women with early stage breast cancer, the risk of relapse is not reduced by additional chemotherapy. This study involved almost 7 000 women with breast cancer from nine European countries, including Belgium. This MINDACT study was presented at a congress of oncology in the United States on 18 April by the director of the Jules Bordet Institute in Brussels, Professor Piccart. The results of that study seem promising. The MINDACT study used the MammaPrint, a genetic test that has been on the market for years, which measures the activity of 70 genes in the tumour tissue and can determine the risk of relapse for certain breast cancers. Classical use in the risk assessment includes the age of the patients in combination with the results of the microscopic examination of the removed breast cancer tissue, the so-called clinical and biological criteria. In this study a new criterion was added, namely a thorough analysis of the DNA from breast cancer. We are now awaiting the publication of this study, which will take place in the near future. Professor Piccart has already presented the study, but the study has yet to be published. After publication, this study will of course receive a lot of feedback and comments, including from international experts, who examine both the results and the study methods used, as usual, in a critical way. However, I have already taken the initiative to act without waiting for publication. Thus, the results have already been discussed on the occasion of the Companion Diagnostics platforms of 17 May 2016 in the presence of experts from the Belgian Cancer Centre, but also from the Scientific Institute of Public Health, the Centre of Expertise, the Cancer Registry, the insurers' organizations and the INAMI. Clinical evidence related to the use of MammaPrint is examined. Experts will determine for which patients it would be most useful to conduct genetic tests. The study shows that for women with a high clinical risk breast tumour, the use of MammaPrint would avoid chemotherapy in 46% of cases. This test is not recommended for women with low clinical biological risk. A second aspect is cost-effectiveness. The Knowledge Centre, which already investigated the contribution of molecular profiling tests to the decision to treat adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer in 2015, would also update that study after the publication of that study. For other gene expression tests, there is not enough clinical evidence to assess them in terms of cost-effectiveness for the time being. In other words, there has already been a broad concert. The Knowledge Centre will update its previous study after publication and thus also frame it in the light of the outcome of that publication. It'll give me another piece of advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I'm glad it's been worked on in the meantime. It is very important that further studies are carried out and that we gain much more insight into effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Not only of course when it comes to the cost, both for the individual and for the health insurance, but also because it is very important for the patient's own experience, if it can be worked in a good way without the need for that chemo. Thank you. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u11	I think we should wait now for the updates of the KCE as part of the study and then we'll see. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u12	Mrs. De Coninck is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u13	Madam President, Minister, my question was put some time ago. I suspect that my fellow Members will see this problem more in the context of last weekend's debate. Madam Minister, we are all very well aware of the problem. It's been mentioned here a lot. There was a final programming of twelve aircraft, seven for Flanders and five for Wallonia. There was an additional question then, because there were still blind spots that had not yet been served. You were right to say that the evaluation of the latest devices had to be reviewed. We see that the volumes of CTs and others do not fall by more MRIs, while the principle of communicating vessels should play. What's the status of those 12 planes? What was posted today? Has there been an initial evaluation? What are the first numbers? Since the beginning of this year there has also been the register, which was published in the Royal Decree of February. What's the status? What can we expect in this respect, also in the light of your statements last weekend?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent years various campaigns have been carried out to raise the awareness of the Belgian population of the harmful effects of medical imaging and, in particular, of its ionizing effects. I have already had the opportunity to ask you about this. Under the previous legislature, various measures were taken to reduce the exposure of patients to radiation. Thus, an increase in the number of magnetic resonance imaging devices was planned in 2015, as mentioned above: 7 in Flanders and 5 in Wallonia. These are in addition to the 109 approved MRI devices in place to avoid scanning examinations in cases where magnetic resonance is more appropriate. The replacement of scanners with MRI examinations is also financially neutral thanks to the principle of communicating vases. As I have already had the opportunity to share this with you, according to experts, an additional 230,000 MRI examinations per year require the installation of an additional 33 MRI devices over a four-year period. It seems very difficult to immediately replace an MRI scanner with an MRI because the waiting lists for MRIs remain far too long and so across the country. Due to the low number of currently licensed MRI devices compared to clinical indications, various academic and non-academic services across the country have over time installed non-accredited MRIs to meet the demand of prescribers. Of course, for these devices, the services do not receive funding, but they meet the needs of patients. Minister, a cadastre for heavy equipment was finally decided in early 2016. We just alluded to it. Do you confirm that you forwarded the ad hoc forms to the hospital directorates last March, knowing that the royal decree you prepared to this effect is to the Council of State? When will we be able to know the results of this cadastre? What's the deadline? And, therefore, when could a new programming be envisaged? It appears that hospitals also received a letter in May – not far back – announcing that, as of 1 June 2016, only examinations of historically approved machines will be reimbursed. Do you confirm that? If this is the case, it is clearly a measure taken to the detriment of patients and in contradiction with the information campaigns "No rays without reasons". If the reimbursement of exams for these non-approved devices is abruptly abolished, they will have to be replaced by scanner examinations, which will only result in a shift of expenses and will be totally counterproductive to awareness campaigns. Access to an MRI will take several weeks or months or to consult at night. Madam Minister, why do you act with such haste, without waiting to be able to analyse the results of the long-awaited cadastre of heavy equipment? Would it not have been more logical to have a clear view of the geographical distribution of currently functioning MRIs (accredited, grey, so-called research MRIs in universities) and to know the number of MRI examinations per centre and hospital before making such a decision, which could lead to a chaotic situation for both hospitals and patients? Are you considering a change in the funding of these devices as part of the hospital finance reform? What avenues are envisaged in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to add my voice to the questions on the cadastre. In February 2014, when the decision was taken, three objectives were pursued: quality and timeliness of diagnosis, avoidance of unnecessary irradiation and the cost to the State. In the current situation, the three objectives are poorly addressed. Why? In essence, the reality is an average waiting time for patients that runs around two months on average. This means that when the patient arrives at the beginning, a scanner is made because we have it faster. Then we do an NMR in a second phase. The result is a less good immediate diagnosis, a doubling of examinations (scanning and resonance) and a loss in terms of patient exposure to rays. We are not good at the quality of the immediate diagnosis, since we first go through a scanner when we know very well that in terms of the surplus value of diagnosis, the NMR is extremely important in a significant number of cases. As far as irradiation is concerned, it is 1.5 times higher than in France and 3 times higher than in Germany, if I remember correctly. Moreover, as I was telling you, the cost to the state is doubled, since two examinations are carried out instead of one. Both for the patient in terms of quality, delay and limitation of irradiation and for the cost to the state in order to avoid duplication of examinations, I plead that the construction site of 24 February 2014 should be reopened and that further resonances should be advanced in the installation. The decision taken on June 1st will further aggravate patients' waiting times. I am all the more inclined to argue for these installations because the European benchmarking shows that the number of resonances per capita is still well below countries that are well advanced in limiting irradiation. I am of course thinking of Germany. It is for all these reasons that I believe, Madam Minister, that it is important to reopen this project. We need to increase the number of resonances, even working on the scanners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dossier that has been going on for some time. Ms Muylle, an opinion on the MRI capacity or the need for MRI capacity was requested from the National Council for Hospital Facilities as early as 2013. In the opinion of 16 May 2013, the National Council therefore advised to increase MRI capacity. Based on this advice and in consultation with the experts of the BELMIP platform, a planning for the expansion of MRI capacity was developed. This plan was formalised in the Protocol Agreement of 24 February 2014. An important aspect of this protocol agreement was a shift from CT studies to MRI studies. And that is actually only possible when the extension of the MRI program provides guarantees for the substantiated territorial spread. The protocol agreement also provides for a step-by-step extension of both the reduced number of CT studies and the territorial distribution. So the expansion with the twelve aircraft is a first phase. Once twelve new aircraft are fully operational, which is not yet the case everywhere, the situation will be evaluated. It will be examined, inter alia, whether the agreed substitution from CT to MRI has been effective. However, account must be taken of the fact that there are a few months between recognition and the moment when an appliance is fully operational. This evaluation will be carried out through the invoicing data relating to the new devices at the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. A zero measurement will also be used in the evaluation to see the shift from CT to MRI. The extension of programming to twelve aircraft has never been the final objective of the protocol agreement; the phasing-out and budget neutrality were always set as conditions for enlargement. Budget neutrality must be demonstrated before further steps can be taken. The impact on radiation reduction is, of course, very important for the patient. With regard to the need for a phased extension of MRI devices, this is linked to a more accurate prescribing behaviour, because according to the guidelines, the supply will have to be better adapted to the needs. In this way we hope to avoid a non-accurate prescriptive behavior. Mr Frédéric, as far as registration is concerned, as I have already told you, after the publication on 3 February of the royal decree establishing the cadastre, we sent a letter in order to record the apparatus envisaged in the latter. We granted one month for PET-scans and three months for the others. On 17 June, the register contains 146 NMR devices, including 10 scientific and 15 illegal or black devices which were found to be there but were not known; 272 CT devices, 3 PETs, 19 PET-CTs, 1 PET-NMR and 127 SPECT-CT devices. The land register is at the heart of enforcement policy. As you know, Mrs Onkelinx's protocol agreement, my predecessor, was concluded with her colleagues in the Länder and stated that effective and final enforcement was envisaged as a vital element in the global framework of agreements. Without enforcement, proper demand determination, resulting in a good geographical distribution of supply, in a budget-neutral context, will remain a utopia. I have already spoken about the National Council for Hospital Services in my reply to Mrs Muylle's question. I would also like to refer to the press release of the Belgian Radiology Association. They argue that further expansion of the MRI park should be based on the following elements: based on real and objective needs. Mrs Fonck, you see that this is still evolving. We can only know the real necessities through a cadastre. Other elements are a realistic budget, i.e. the avoidance of overconsumption and optimal accessibility, with the most favourable regional distribution of new appliances. Furthermore, the Belgian Radiology Association states that the presence of non-approved aircraft is in breach of these objectives because it leaves the real needs unclear and part of the budget is spent by the services with non-approved aircraft, at the expense of services that are still waiting for an approved appliance. Unrecognized devices can be installed anywhere, without taking into account accessibility and the most favourable regional distribution. Hospitals which own a device which is not recognised by the Länder or which is outside that programming have indeed not received a billing number from the RIZIV. This is the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding and in implementation of Article 64, § 1 of the SSI (Health Care and Allowances) Act. This would also not be justified in relation to the hospitals that have been waiting for years for the possibility to install and operate an MRI. Since 1999, the certification of NMR examinations is only possible if the services are performed by a medical specialist in radio diagnostics in an approved service with an approved NMR device. So far, it was not possible a priori to refuse a refund through insurers because it was impossible to explicitly establish with which device an examination was carried out. Some licensed services currently have several devices. The extension of 12 aircraft was therefore a first phase. We will proceed to the evaluation as soon as possible and look at the further needs in the field. It is rather short, Mr Frédéric, to say that the decision to enforce legislation is contradictory to the message of the campaign "Pas de rayons sans raison". First and foremost, there must be a change in the prescription behaviour in order to reduce the radiation load for the Belgians. By following up the guidelines properly, using decision-support systems and the radiologist's right of substitution, among other things, we must come to a situation where the most effective investigation is always carried out for the patient. In many cases, it is appropriate not to apply for an investigation at all. That's what the numbers show. A targeted review of the application of this directive with respect to medical imaging, conducted on the order of the College of Medical Directors, found that 70% of the CT examinations in the spine are not prescribed in accordance with the guidelines. Similarly, 12% of MRIs were over-used. For other TB reviews, it was also found that the prescription rarely met the guidelines. The margin is therefore great to improve the situation and to prevent our fellow citizens from being too exposed to radiation. I have already indicated, Ms. Fonck, that an extension of this programming is possible provided that the number of CT reviews decreases. Above all, we want the regulations to have added value for the patient. When a prescription, scan or MRI is requested, it must have added value for the patient. It must not only be about radiation, but it must also have added value to the diagnosis. I have already pointed out to you that in a large number of cases it is being used for the reason that it is prescribed. If the guidelines for medical imaging are applied, the number of CT-scan examinations must decrease. At present, this number is still very high in Belgium. In a targeted examination, I told you that there were too many CT-scans of the spine; we try to reduce the number of CT-scans when they are not really significant to the patient. For the other CT-scans, it was seen that the prescription often did not comply with the guidelines. They continue to be monitored to determine whether they are justified and effective. In the national cadastre we have, of course, there are NMR devices without authorisation. The Royal Decree of 26 May 2016, published on 31 May in implementation of Article 64, § 1, which incorporates the new conditions of reimbursement, stipulates that the rules shall enter into force on 1 June. There is no initiative to re-delete this regulation or to provide for additional transitional measures. A good use of medical imaging with a phase-by-phase extension of the number of NMR devices, as agreed between the competent authorities, is in the interest of everyone: especially patients, doctors and authorities who must also take budgetary aspects into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for a very comprehensive answer. You have outlined the problem very well. I fully follow you when you say that, firstly, there is a great deal to be done in the context of prescribing behaviour, and secondly, that the framework should be redesigned in a controlled way, budget-neutral, with a good regional distribution. The parameters you are applying today are the right parameters, but you also know, of course, that there are still a few blind spots. Among other things, the position of a hospital and the fact that it has or does not have an MRI device are important factors, especially in the context of networking. The reform of the landscape worries many hospitals. In this sense, it is important to arrive at a rapid evaluation within the framework. Let's hope that has an effect on the numbers. There are sufficient incentives, including for the future, to point them out and possibly sanction them. I am confident that if we can make the evaluation, the blind spots will be filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u18	Madam President, I share a number of points that have been made by the minister, but not all of them. We are going to follow the implementation of this cadastre, which we are talking about and which we would like to know about the guideline. We did not have an answer to that question. When do you think you'll land with this cadastre?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u19	In politics, the first rule, as you probably know, is never to give a guideline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u20	But what do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u21	I'm waiting for the evaluation. I asked the department to make this assessment as soon as possible. A first assessment will be made to see where there are problems, waiting lists and where regional problems remain. So for me, it's as soon as possible, but we need to have a numerical evaluation. And now we have the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u22	Perfect. So we're gonna wait until we get those results. Because the concrete reality of our fellow citizens, in any case those who express themselves in this regard, is that it is extremely difficult to get this type of examination. An MRI in my region, the beautiful Verviet region, is a great minimum of 2 months, even in situations that are sometimes urgent. I personally experienced a somewhat urgent physical situation and there were two months of waiting. It was impossible to make it faster. Madam Minister, with regard to the point of no longer paying back, I understand your logic. We all agree that we need to limit the number of scanners. But your decision not to repay any out-of-work equipment as of June 1st for the time being and which responds to these requests, as far as possible within the limits of what is feasible, does not seem to me to be a good idea. I think that we should have waited until we had this cadastre before making any decisions in order to properly assess, region by region, the needs and budgetary impact of the investments to be implemented. I will table to support you in your work, Madam Minister, as usual in a positive vision, a motion of recommendation that I will put in the hands of the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u23	Minister, I agree with you when you say that the number of scanners must decrease and that we need a slide from the scanner to the MRI. But you will only get this if the alternative has a similar delay. Otherwise, there will be no reduction in the number of scanners. Indeed, as patients have to wait one or two months or longer, it is logical that clinicians who need to make an acute or subacute diagnosis do not wait two months. I would remind you, however, that it is not the radiologists who prescribe, since there is no self-prescription possible. It is true that the current situation is terribly flawed because of this. It is a little bit the snake that eats its tail: you do not want to increase the resonances, so you first make a scanner, then a resonance in a second time, which costs the state. One could do an initial resonance, avoiding the scanner and moving towards a more effective diagnosis, in any case when the scanner is indicated, and avoiding irradiation, let us remember, since the resonance is not irradiating. Minister, you are going to do this assessment, but be careful about the criteria you will use. If you use the aspects I have just mentioned, you will obviously never achieve a positive result, and the flawed system as it exists today will continue to run. I continue to plead for an extension of resonance. This is both essential for the patient and for the social security component. I think that it is entirely possible to control the budget of the scanner provided that the alternative of resonance is presented with an extremely short delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u24	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. André Frédéric and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to be able to have as quickly as possible a cadastre of heavy equipment in order to allow new programming in line with the needs of patients and with the aim of reducing the exposure of the population to radiation; - suspend the decision not to refund the examinations of machines historically approved from 1 June in order not to risk further exposure of patients to ionizing radiation and not to create a chaotic situation in hospitals; - to pay particular attention to the financing of these MRI devices in the context of the hospital funding reform in order to meet the growing need in this area and above all to avoid unnecessary exposure of patients to ionizing radiation." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - that a register of heavy medical imaging equipment should be created as soon as possible so that a new programme can be drawn up to meet patient needs and to reduce the exposure of the population to radiation; - the decision not to reimburse, suspend and suspend investigations carried out with 'historically' approved appliances with effect from 1 June, so as not to risk exposing patients to ionising radiations and not to provoke a chaotic situation in hospitals; - in the context of the reform of hospital funding, pay particular attention to the financing of MRI devices, in order to respond to the growing need for such studies and, above all, to avoid unnecessary exposure of patients to ionising radiations." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Nathalie Muylle, Ms Ine Somers and Ms Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u25	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I will be brief. My question is simple. We have been taking measures for six months in the new year under the health tax, in particular the increase of 1 euro cent for a can and 3 euro cents for a bottle of soft drinks. There is the budgetary aspect, but in committee we have also asked a lot of questions about how we would continue to deal with income and how this fits in with a global approach to health. You would consult with your colleagues from the regions, who are responsible for the preventive part. In summary, what is the state of play on this dossier, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u26	Madam President, Minister, my question is as short as Mrs Muylle's. In the past, we have been particularly critical of the health tax. At that time we understood that a national food plan is being worked on, which we naturally welcome. What's the status? When will the food plan be proposed? What are the measures that will be included? What about the current measures relating to the tax on soft drinks? Are they gonna be modified or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u27	Madam President, since 1 January 2016, the health tax has indeed entered into force in our country. For figures on sales and returns, it's a little early. I have to ask for these figures myself from my fellow Member, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. It's a little strange to give these figures yourself. Mrs Muylle, the reference to the ban on soft drinks and snacks in Latvian schools is indeed interesting. It is an example of the fact that for a thorough approach to non-transferable diseases that have a link to nutrition, the cooperation of all stakeholders is called upon from public authorities at all levels to begin with. As you know, the Communities decide on the supply of food at school and whether or not to allow vending machines containing sugary drinks and snacks. The food industry and the retail sector will also have to assume their responsibilities, as will caterers and catering. Finally, of course, it remains the responsibility of the consumer, who can choose to buy healthy products instead of unhealthy products. However, consumers must be well informed. It was therefore decided to draw up a joint plan to address nutrition and health. It should bring together all aspects: sensitisation, education, encouraging movement, a healthier composition of food products in shops, seeing whether a label can help consumers make a healthy choice and so on. We also agreed to establish a platform within the Federal Public Health Service that organises the exchange of information between the federal government, the Communities and the Regions and ensures that different initiatives reinforce each other. Last week the covenant on balanced nutrition was proposed, concluded with the federation of the Belgian food sector FEVIA, the federation for trade and services Comeos, food companies, traders, restaurant chains, catering companies and my services. The covenant was signed and ratified at a press conference on Monday 13 June. This voluntary commitment is aimed at reducing the daily calorie intake by the population of 5 % by the end of 2016. For some products we have an agreement until 2020 and another 5% will be added by 2020, but there is no agreement yet for all products. This is done by reducing the content of added sugars and fats in the food products and in the culinary preparations of the catering companies and restaurant chains, as well as by smaller portion sizes. In view of this commitment, an independent monitoring will be carried out by the federal government services, on the basis of the nutrient content of the main product categories from the food pyramids of 2012........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Depending on the results of the evaluation, FEVIA and Comeos are prepared to make additional commitments for the period up to 2020. So we have worked in two steps. There is no provision for sanctions, since this is a voluntary agreement between economic operators. However, they have every interest in keeping to the commitment they have signed with regard to their responsibility in formulating sustainable solutions to change poor food habits and consumer lifestyles. Under the Protocol Agreement with the Communities, signed at the latest Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, the foundations were laid for an ambitious food policy so that action could be taken in all policy areas and at all policy levels. It is therefore essential that every level of policy should work within its powers to reduce the incidence of non-communicable diseases in our country. The covenant signed will also be the subject of a discussion at the next Inter-Ministerial Conference, so that people in the Länder know exactly what has been agreed so that they can build on it politically and take initiatives to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u28	Minister, in your response, you obviously incorporated elements that related to the 5% healthier diet. Questions were raised on the subject. There is no point in restating these questions later. I will therefore leave Ms. Jiroflée the opportunity to respond to both questions - tax and 5% - and Ms. Van Camp will also be able to reply to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u29	Madam Secretary, you're right. Soft drinks are one aspect. However, you have placed it in a bigger picture. For the figures, I will consult your fellow Members. This will also be an important element for Flanders at the health conference that will take place there. So we shall certainly come back to the matter in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u30	Madam Minister, you have indeed given me the answer that I was more or less expecting to answer question No. Question No 124, by Mrs Van Camp, Question No 12476, by Mrs Van Camp Question No 12509 by myself 12534 by Mrs Van Hoof, in particular on the 5% reduction in sugar from the food industry. Applause on all the benches, I would say, if that is an agreement between industry and yourself. So that's not a problem. However, what struck me in the communication about the agreement with the food industry was your statement: when people know it's important to eat healthy, then it works. Well, I think that is precisely where the problem lies, because it is precisely the responsibility of the government to ensure that people know that. There is indeed a need for close cooperation with the Communities and the Regions. My supplementary question was about the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You have already answered half of this question. I have not yet received an answer to the question about the tax on soft drinks. Is it maintained or not? Or is that considered in the plan that appears to be coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u32	Madam Secretary, we know more and more that cancer is becoming a chronic disease. However, there are some tumors where the outlook is still very bleak. Lung cancer is clearly one of those tumors, especially when we look at men's deaths. More than half of the patients still die within the year after diagnosis and less than a quarter of the patients are still alive after three years. Lung cancer surgery is highly fragmented in Belgium. A very good KCE study has shown this. What does the KCE study say now? Half of our centres, 55 out of 85, carry out less than ten operations a year. Only nine centres do 40 or more each year. The figures then show that a very low annual volume is associated with a higher postoperative mortality. Moreover, a positive relationship is also established between the volume and the result for a first-year survival. Short-term mortality, 60 days, is clearly higher in the very low volume centres. We therefore look into the further volume categories. It shows that a surgical volume of at least 10 interventions per year is needed to reduce mortality in the short term. The reports of the KCE show a very clear fragmentation of care provision in our country for common and rare tumours. One should go more and more to centralization when treating after diagnosis has been made. The KCE therefore recommends that consideration be given to whether a minimum should be introduced in the context of the number of interventions which may or may not be carried out, in order to achieve better post-operative figures. There was a lot of discussion on this within the board of directors of the KCE. A lot of fellow Members were right then, especially in the discussion that we should not just interpret figures. For example, if you do 14 or 15 surgeries with three doctors, this can give different figures than if one doctor does 14. It also has to do with the quality of the surrounding team and the oncology nurses. How good is the frame? How does it fit into a multidisciplinary framework? There was a lot of concern about the conclusions we reached within the KCE. As KCE, we also found that the mortality figures in particular increase very sharply as the number of interventions decreases. What are you going to do with the KCE study, Madam Secretary? I understand that this is another point in the context of the redrafting of the hospital landscape, but what will you do with that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u33	Madam Minister, my colleague has already outlined in detail the content of the KCE study. The demand for centralisation in certain cancers, such as lung cancer, is also asked by the IMA and Kom op tegen Kanker. So it is certainly not only the KCE that is asking this, but also the IMA and people on the ground. You yourself have argued for this centralization on several occasions. Our group is also in favour of this, because centralisation of quality care is the future. Not every hospital has to want to do everything. A timely referral is very important. Madam Secretary, you have always said that you want to deal with this. What measures will you take? When can we expect concrete plans in this area? Are you taking centralization of all cancer treatments or just lung cancer surgery? Will you also take into account the very expensive new cancer treatments in this plan? What is the budgetary impact? What choices will you make?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u34	Madam Minister, the problems and the study have already been clearly outlined. We know that the KCE has already reached similar conclusions in the past on gastric and esophageal cancer. So we are not just talking about the treatment of lung cancer. Madam Secretary, to what extent will you take the results of these studies into account when re-writing the hospital landscape? What timing do you keep in mind? How will you proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Somers, every patient, whatever hospital he is in, is entitled to the best possible care. Sometimes it is necessary to refer a patient to another center that does have the expertise for a treatment. This applies, for example, to lung cancer surgery, but also to other complex oncological surgical procedures, such as oesophageal and pancreatic surgery, for which the Knowledge Centre has also scientifically proven that the outcome is related to the volume of procedures performed. This outcome is both about survival and about the quality of life after the procedure, two very important things for the patient. In our neighbouring countries, we see that there is already very transparent communication about the quality of care, and no longer on a voluntary basis. In Belgium, too, we see this social evolution and the patient's demand for greater transparency. It also seems to be increasingly illogical to take the notion of the patient's empowerment in the mouth while at the same time not systematically giving the patient access to information on the quality and outcome of treatments. We therefore want to examine whether and how the results of quality monitoring and outcome can be made public. By outcome we mean the added value of the treatment for the patient. I spoke recently in London at the ICHOM conference and in the context of the outcome there was also talk of more value for the patient. We know that in the relatively short term we want to concentrate complex cancer surgery in specialised centres, especially in centres where adapted infrastructure, equipment and expertise are available and where multidisciplinary teams treat a sufficient number of patients with such diseases. To this end, we are currently exploring various slopes, ranging from a change in the organisation of the care, for example through programming or the allocation of a reference function within a specialised care programme, to changes in funding, for example by working with specific conventions for part of the treatment of certain types of cancer, by providing for RIZIV reimbursement only if the centre meets certain criteria. We will also examine the criteria to be met in order to carry out the treatment. One of the parameters is possible a minimum number of treatments per team. That's one of the parameters. In some hospitals, there are only 10 treatments per year. This does not mean that the people who work there are not properly trained or that there is a lack of professionalism, but a study by the Knowledge Centre has shown that the more a team does such interventions, the more the team has those interventions and the better the final results. We encourage hospitals to cooperate more and be inspired by the model of shared care recommended by the Knowledge Centre, especially for oncological treatments. This cooperation concerns both treatment and referral and referral of patients for some treatments. The expertise is collected in so-called centres of reference or specialised centres. However, basic care must continue to be provided in the hospital that the patient has chosen. It's not about a referral from a patient who's never seen again. For basic care, the patient is referred back to the hospital. That would be an optimal case for the patient. We are working hard on this, in cooperation and consultation with the field, because we are aware that this is delicate for some hospitals. After all, it is linked to the reform of the hospital landscape, but also to hospital funding. How will the funding go if the hospitals refer patients and part of the expensive interventions take place in another specialized hospital, after which the patient returns to the original hospital? We must take account of those sensitivities that are often in the portfolio for hospitals. However, our goal remains to go to networks that aim to provide quality and highly efficient care throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I do believe that this is the correct approach in the framework of shared care and the networks. Our doctors, nurses and teams need to work together much more. Where there is more expertise, one should get it and then return it to one's own region. There are already some very good examples in this area today. I think it is also the future of our concern to continue in this way and not to decide to exclude certain zones. By working together we can offer a very accessible and high-quality care that remains accessible to many patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u37	Madam Secretary, I understand that it is a lot of work and that it is being worked hard. I don't doubt that. As far as my question on timing is concerned, can you be more specific about that? You didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mrs Muylle's response. I think it is very important that there should be an encouragement to work together and to network, so that it comes from the ground itself. In addition, consideration should also be given to how this evolution can be further stimulated by the government. I hope that the timing of implementation can speed this up, in the interests of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u39	As far as timing is concerned, I have asked for some advice, among other things, from the Knowledge Centre, on low-, medium- and high-variable care. That depends, because if we change this, we also need to change funding. We are still on the time beam that we proposed on 28 April 2015. I expect the advice. I have been assured that they will be there in due course. We have already established a certain timing for this, but now it escapes me when this will be discussed. Madam President, at your request we have provided for an update of the hospital financing plan in this committee. That'll be by mid-September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u40	Last week, we wondered if we could plan a commission in the first half of September. The Conference of Presidents has confirmed what I said last week, namely that the group meetings and the greening of the beginnings cannot take place on Tuesday and Wednesday, committee days. You'll have to tell your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u41	In our group, it starts on a Thursday night.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u42	We will discuss the first half of September when we organise our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u43	Minister, the company INS Ambulances Soumagne - created following the bankruptcy of SPRL Jaegers-Moreau - has submitted an application for approval in order to be able to intervene in the context of emergency medical aid. You responded to this request by saying that, "Following the confession of bankruptcy of SPRL Jaegers-Moreau, I had asked the Commission d'aide médicale urgente de la province de Liège, COAMU, for an opinion. COAMU has measured the impact of this unavailability on emergency medical aid, in particular on the response time, and has heard several ambulance services which have shown their interest in the sector from Soumagne." You then point out that, "having regard to the opinion of the COAMU and the reform of the emergency medical aid that I am preparing, it seems inappropriate for me to designate a new service at the beginning of Soumagne for the moment". This means that society can always make non-emergency medical-sanitary transport, but that it cannot be sent by dispatching 112 to take care of a more seriously affected patient, thus leaving the inhabitants of the Soumagne region without this type of transport allowing rapid intervention in situations requiring the emergency and thus avoiding the tragedies caused by too long-awaited interventions. Minister, could you clarify the opinion of the UAOC? Is it correct that this opinion is in favour of the approval of the company INS Ambulances Soumagne? If so, how do you justify not following this committee's opinion? You justify your refusal of approval by the fact that you are preparing a reform of urgent medical aid. But when do you intend to complete this reform? Pending the effective implementation of your reform, would it not be appropriate to provide the citizens of the Soumagne region with prompt care in the context of urgent medical aid by the company INS Ambulances Soumagne, as was the case until recently thanks to the SPRL recovery which had this approval? What is the change that has actually taken place for all the citizens concerned, justifying the fact that the old society had an approval and that the new society has been refused it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u44	Mr de Lamotte, the opinion of the Commission d'aide médicale urgente de la province de Liège is against granting authorisation 112 to an ambulance company in Soumagne on several points. Following the collapse of the Jaegers-Moreau approved ambulance service, the Commission provided urgent medical assistance in the Soumagne region by asking the Red Cross of Blégny to intervene in the territory of Soumagne. The Commission has set up a monitoring of intervention times in the territory of Sumagne. She reviewed several applications for new accreditation. The conclusions and opinion of the COAMU are as follows. First of all, urgent medical assistance in the territory of Soumagne is provided at the departure of the Red Cross of Blegny. Intervention times were monitored and an in-depth analysis of the one-month interventions was carried out. There are 116 interventions in the territory of Soumagne. All interventions were performed in less than 15 minutes. The Commission concluded that urgent medical assistance is therefore provided. At the same time, the Commission assessed the various applications. The said company INS Ambulances Soumagne which leads an assertive communication did not come out like the winner of the candidatures. In addition, as the number of emergency medical assistance interventions is limited to the territory of Soumagne, the Commission considered that the risk of a new licence going bankrupt remained as real. Taking all these arguments into account, I felt it inappropriate to grant a new approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u45	The second question on the proposed reform remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u46	A lot of work has already been done on the reform project. Because it's quite complicated, this work is always done in collaboration with Mr. Jambon's services because they are often ambulance attendants who are in firefighters' homes or hospitals. There are all kinds of ambulance services. Depending on the different organisations on the ground, we will first present a plan here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you. I take note of your second answer. Indeed, it is part of a global debate. As far as the first answer is concerned, you have mentioned a number of elements. I also note that the situation on the ground was no different before and now. You thought it was necessary to rationalize. I take note of your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u48	Question No 10967 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u49	Madam President, Minister, a recent KCE study entitled "Model for the organisation and financing of psychological care" commissioned by INAMI, FPS Public Health and a professional association of psychologists proposes a two-stage psychological care reimbursement system. The first floor would be open to all and would welcome without restriction the current and moderate psychic problems. This front-line care would be limited to 5 sessions and could be offered everywhere: in general medical offices or medical homes, PMS centres, family planning, etc. If the patient so wishes, his general practitioner could receive an additional fee to play this role in long-term consultations. The second floor would be more restricted access for patients who need more specific care - this time on prescription - for example for psychotherapy. The number of meetings reimbursed would also be limited, but renewable under certain conditions. Minister, at a time when the number of depressions and burn-out is constantly increasing, this study seems to me to deserve our full attention. While these reimbursements would have a cost, on the other hand they could avoid higher costs in the health and disability insurance, for patients who become bogged down in long-term psychological distress. According to 2013 INAMI figures, between one third and half of new disability claims are due to mental disorders. It's an increase of almost 60% in 10 years. Minister, how did you accept the KCE's proposals, and what action do you intend to take? Is it correct that you refused to meet with the Belgian Professional Union of Psychiatric Physicians on this subject, despite repeated requests from its president? Perhaps you are planning to meet with representatives of all the actors concerned, not to mention the federated entities, since the KCE is proposing - logically - a model of coordination with the initiatives taken in their own competence? I also wonder about the role of the general practitioner in this scheme because if I understood correctly, the patient could either speak directly to a psychologist, or ask his general practitioner to play the role of the psychologist, which still seems curious to me. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u50	Mrs Caprasse, I have read the KCE report with great interest like you. It also contains many choices and different possibilities in terms of content. However, I am not going to detail the content of the recommendations, as I have already reiterated that this process towards the reimbursement of psychological care is made up of three parts. First, the accreditation of health care providers as health care professionals. We will be discussing this item again this Thursday in plenary session, because a bill on this subject will be debated there. Secondly comes the conception of the organizational model, which, as you said yourself, requires a discussion with the Communities. Finally, we will reflect on the repayment arrangements. As you know, this first part is under way within the government with the help of the law of April 4, 2014. We pay considerable attention to this because quality of care is the basis for a good organizational model. It goes without saying that there will still be sufficient consultation on the organizational model and repayment arrangements with all parties concerned. But it was first necessary to draft the law of 4 April 2014. That is what we have done; it has required a great deal of consultation. Now we continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u51	Minister, have you met with the Belgian Professional Union of Psychiatric Physicians on this subject? I've had an echo that not all the actors have been consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u52	All appointments to the firm will be seen, now or a little later according to our schedule. We do not want to work chaotically. My firm doesn't have a hundred members. There are cells. Two or three full-time equivalents work on mental health care. They have meetings, consultations and agendas. When necessary, anyone requesting an appointment is received. And there's a lot of people! If you want to come and see this at my office, come and see. This has not always been the case. Everyone's heard. We do not agree with everyone, but everyone is heard when he asks, and not the next day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u53	I hear there are still people who have not been heard. When the law is passed, it may be too late for some associations to be able to give their feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u54	Mr. Spooren is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u55	Madam Minister, the municipality of Rekkem is located at the language border and this makes it dependent today on the emergency team of the neighbouring municipality of Mouskroen. The starting point for emergency medical care is simple and logical: the principle of the fastest adequate aid requires that the nearest MUG should be extended. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but on and around a language border it turns out that in reality confusing and dangerous conditions are caused: MUGs often drive to wrong places and medical staff sometimes fail to communicate properly with the victims. So here are language problems sometimes a matter of life and death. The current government has, fortunately, paid attention to this and the chapter on Fire and Civil Protection explicitly states that the federal government will ensure that in the areas around the language border and in Brussels, a staff member of the emergency service always understands and speaks the other country language." Your cabinet already recommended that the province of West Flanders should already apply to the Provincial Committee Urgent Medical Assistance for an exception to the algorithm that now ensures that teams have to come from Mouscron, until there is a definitive solution from the federal government. However, it is said at the meeting of the Provincial Commission that the Provincial Commission as a body is not competent to deal with cases linked to any language problem. It is only responsible for the actual urgent aid provided for by the law: it must ensure that the fastest adequate aid is sent out, regardless of where it comes from, even from France. The language aspect is referred to the federal government. So the county's gonna bounce the ball back. She doesn't want to modify the algorithm and says that the language problem is not her competence. First of all, what is your opinion on the negative response of the province? How will you react to this? Secondly, what do you intend to do to solve the problem of occupation, which is not exclusively in the municipality of Rekkem, but, as Mr Spoorsen points out, also in the region? What will you do to solve the problem in the facilities municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u56	In February and March 2016, 182 patient transport interventions were carried out by the ambulances and the MUG of the UCL in Flanders. In 75% of these interventions, patients were transferred to the UCL. The ten-minute exception rule was not only used to transfer patients to Gasthuisberg, but also to the Sacred Heart Leuven and AZ Jan Portaels in Vilvoorde. Moreover, the derogation rule was used not only to drive to Flemish hospitals, but also to other hospitals in Brussels and Wallonia, such as Saint Peter in Ottignies, the Iris South in Ixelles or the Europa Hospital in Uccle. In substance, the problem you raise has been identified by the government as a working point and included in the coalition agreement. My policy always focuses on freedom of choice, accessibility and quality medicine. However, urgent medical assistance is just a setting in which the risk assessment of certain situations requires priority to be given to the speed and adequacy of the aid without compromising quality, while the freedom of choice is considered to be a little secondary. It has not been possible to isolate language problems as a separate element of aid. However, the overall approach to non-planable care and the updating of the regulations, the financing and programming of urgent medical assistance and the updating of the 112 centres take this point into account. The language problem starts with the emergency call and ends with the reception at a guard station or an emergency service. We must take that into account. Reinforced by the opinions of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, I work together with my administration and that of the Minister of the Interior on a well-founded plan of action for the entire chain of non-planable care. Addressing a fractioned problem would not lead to a sustainable solution, either for non-planable care or for citizens. I take note of the reply from the Provincial Medical Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u57	Thank you, Minister, that will do. I believe that you have read out the answer for Mr Spoorsen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u58	A piece. It's all connected anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u59	Absolutely. No problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you about the often prohibitive cost of cancer treatments. On that occasion, you told me that, through a contract between INAMI and pharmaceutical companies, it was possible to increase access to treatment while reducing the cost of health insurance. This is also the objective of the agreements you have signed with representatives of the pharmaceutical industry. In France, 110 French carcinologists signed a petition calling for a fair price in order to ensure equitable access for all patients to the new treatments while ensuring the maintenance of a solidarity health system. Their arguments are based on a disproportionate gap between the cost of research and development of new molecules, new molecules aiming at targets defined a priori, from public research, and benefiting from marketing authorisations, and therefore a very rapid return on investment. These carcinologists therefore call for the definition of a fair price based on the sums invested by industry for the research and development of the product and a reasonable return on investment by a more democratic and transparent arbitration system involving representatives of patients and professionals. They also call for the end of patent term extensions, given the rapid development of new therapies that are added or replaced by older molecules. Minister, this appeal, which seems to go far beyond the hexagonal limits and to the international bodies, particularly with regard to equal access to new treatments for patients in developing countries, is in line with the objectives of your pact with the pharmaceutical industry. A common approach seems necessary, as you mentioned in the presentation of your agreement, as pharmaceutical laboratories have an international clientele. Minister, have you had any contact with the signatories of this petition to discuss your action, which could be further strengthened and legitimized by the support of cancer specialists from a large neighbouring country that is also at the forefront of the fight against this disease? Do you intend to defend this reading in European and global bodies by relying on the active support of the Belgian and French medical corps in particular, but also of other major countries leading the fight against cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u61	Mr Flahaux, the escalation of the prices of innovative treatments, particularly in the field of oncology, is of course one of my concerns. We are facing a major challenge: to be able to offer as many people as possible access to increasingly efficient and expensive treatments, while maintaining the sustainability of our solidarity-based social security system. Awareness of the problem is now global. Only a national and international approach can identify cost-control solutions. At national level, I have implemented a number of actions aimed at controlling costs and identifying additional resources so that more patients can access innovative therapies, including cancer. Indeed, thanks to the use of Article 81 of the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001 on reimbursement of medicinal products and the signing of temporary individual agreements which are increasingly focused on the outcome for the patient, substantial reductions in costs are achieved, as well as better control and predictability of expenditure during the duration of these agreements. In addition, thanks to various measures resulting from the future pact with the pharmaceutical sector, an average of EUR 350 million per year is available for the reimbursement of innovative products for the next three years. These include savings in non-patent products. In addition, the allocation of a budget for the conduct of publicly funded studies under the KCE will enable us to make better use of available health care budgets. These include direct comparisons to identify the best available therapeutic options or robust studies to determine the optimal duration of new oncological treatments. In this way, savings can be made not only by reducing the costs of dealing with possible side effects, but also by directly reducing the costs associated with these drugs. Better identification of patients likely to respond to more and more targeted and personalized oncological treatments also contributes to the control of expenses or the release of funding for an increased number of patients. At the international level, you know that we have concluded an agreement with the Netherlands and Luxembourg on innovative medicines and especially on orphan medicines. Last week, Austria joined us. Other European Member States are also interested. Moreover, through the Knowledge Centre, the RIZIV, the FAGG and the representative at European level, Belgium participates in various European initiatives for better control of cancer medicines and faster and easier access to new treatments for patients. There are also some actions in which Belgium actively cooperates in order to improve European regulation and avoid certain errors. With regard to the French oncologists' initiative, I can only share the objectives set out in this petition, namely the introduction of a fair price based on the investments actually made in research and development by the industry and on a reasonable return on investment in order to allow equitable access for all patients to the new treatments, while ensuring the maintenance of a solidarity health system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you. I am already satisfied with the agreements with Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria. I'm also glad you're in line with French oncologists. I'm dreaming of an international projection for you. It is because I find you far more efficient than Marisol Touraine, the French Minister of Health, that I allow myself to make this proposal to enlarge these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, the international liver congress held in Barcelona between 13 and 14 April 2016 was once again an opportunity for several NGOs, including Médecins du Monde and Treatment Action Group, to protest the exorbitant price of HCV treatments, while this disease affects 150 million people worldwide and causes 700,000 deaths per year. To meet this unsustainable cost for middle-income countries, alternative solutions are being put in place. A clinical trial in Egypt, where 18% of the population had HCV, mainly genotype 4, a combination of ravidasvir and sofosbuvir had a 100% response. This summer, a clinical trial in Malaysia and Thailand will attempt to assess the optimal dose, possible side effects and efficacy of this combination on other genotypes, including 3 and 6 in Asia. While the trials in question are a source of medical hope, they raise a number of questions. The cost of $300 for this treatment again raises the question of how to avoid the risk of patients in these countries benefiting from these innovative treatments selling them to European patients who do not fall within the restrictive criteria for granting these molecules, given their prohibitive price, in "rich" countries. This risk is all the greater as the number of HCV-carrying patients, including genotype 4, is increasing. In addition, these protocols, which are the result of a public-private partnership with the firm that holds the license of the ravidasvir, Presidio Pharmaceuticals, use the sofosbuvir whose license belongs to Gilead, without its consent. In the event of a positive response from experienced treatments, States wishing to implement them will therefore have to either issue a compulsory license on sofosbuvir or decree a "government use" that allows a State to use an invention in the public domain. For Gilead, who is offering sofosbuvir for $900 in middle-income countries, this will necessarily result in a loss of profits. Minister, you signed agreements with the pharmaceutical industry in 2015 to increase patient access to innovative treatments, while preserving the sustainability of our health care system and allowing the pharmaceutical sector to better plan its research and development through greater budgetary security and predictability. To achieve this objective, you have set up a working group on the purchase prices of medicines, the conclusions of which are expected for this month so that prices are calculated transparently, taking into account investments in research and the cost of production. It would seem that this is the right answer to the issue we are dealing with. At the conclusion of this agreement, you announced your willingness to work with your European counterparts towards a common approach. What were their answers? Are you considering addressing this issue with international bodies such as the World Health Organization? What do you think of pharmaceutical laboratories' remuneration through a joint fund managed by the WHO for innovative medicines that are a response to diseases as widespread as HCV or that provide treatment for orphan diseases with a low number of cases per country? What do you think about setting the price of medicines internationally?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u64	Mr Flahaux, as you rightly say, my Dutch counterpart and I have asked the KCE and the Zorginstituut Nederland to examine several new avenues that can provide a response to the challenges raised by the growth of the costs of new drug therapies. I am fully aware that this problem is neither exclusively Belgian nor only European. The solutions must be found by several countries according to their respective problems and their singularity. It is my intention to share the results of our study with my counterparts and to share them with them on the most appropriate forums and platforms. Discussions are under way on high drug prices in European networks, but also within the OECD and even at UN level. The relevant points of our study will therefore be made available to other countries. It does not seem to me very wise to move forward on conclusions and possible scenarios such as that of a global WHO fund. This path must be examined in depth, the advantages and disadvantages weighed and the risks calculated. Care must be taken to ensure that predefined, earmarked and, by definition, restricted budgets do not, in fact, close the door to other vulnerable patients whose medical needs would not be met. In Europe, we have known for years the arguments of the pharmaceutical industry regarding European floor prices and the importance of this aspect for parallel import and European reference price systems. In fact, by Member State, we do not really negotiate on the price but on the final cost for the payer; in our case, health insurance. I am also convinced that enhanced international collaboration can open up opportunities. More collaboration leads to a pooling of information, knowledge and expertise, as well as increased transparency in the decision-making process and strengthening of negotiating positions with firms. All these elements can only benefit patients. Collaboration with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria is fully in line with this strategic approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u65	Madam Minister, if you were Luxembourgish, I would say that you are in the habit of getting ahead of yourself. As I know you like to clear new land, that's what my question was about. But I realize that the elements I am giving will be the result of more effort and research on your part and that of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u66	Question No 11134 by Mrs Hufkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u67	Minister, I was asking you recently about specific incidents involving breast implants and hip prostheses. In March 2012, MP Maya Detiège asked your predecessor, Ms.Onkelinx, about implant and prosthetic controls in general. This called for stricter regulation at European level and more effective monitoring at budget level of product quality. Ms. Onkelinx responded that there was no comprehensive implant registry. The minister spoke of "chanting" in the field and expected results from AFMPS and INAMI in this direction. Minister, can you tell me what has been done since then to improve the situation? Has systematic control been strengthened? What remains to be done to prevent patients from suffering from defective products or causing adverse health effects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u68	Mr Flahaux, following the crisis of breast implants fraudulently manufactured by PIP, a number of initiatives to enhance the safety of implementable medical devices have been initiated at both European and Belgian level. In particular, the following actions can be mentioned. At European level, surveillance of medical devices, including implants, will be strengthened with the forthcoming adoption of a new European regulation. This new regulation will make it possible to further harmonise the monitoring of these products between the different Member States. It will impose more restrictive requirements in the pre-market phase compared to the post-market phase, i.e. post-market vigilance and surveillance. I believe it is necessary for an agreement to be reached in the coming weeks in order to start implementing the many developments included in the draft regulation. At Belgian level, the establishment of a central implant traceability register has been initiated in order to allow better follow-up, in the event of an incident, through this complementary tool. However, some technical adjustments have proved necessary to ensure consistency with the e-Health plan. In addition, the harmonisation of the single codificaton of implants provided for in the draft European Regulation is necessary for the coherence of the system. Pending these adaptations, the AFMPS continues to use existing materials tools. These include the network of material contact points and each Belgian healthcare institution and distributor has been able to designate a contact point to facilitate communication between AFMPS and the institutions/distributors. In the area of inspection, field controls throughout the marketing processes of medical devices have been greatly strengthened and inspections are carried out at the level of clinical trials and also at the level of manufacturing, import, distribution and delivery. Inspection schedules are based on a risk analysis, in order to further optimize controls by the AFMPS of this specific sector. Developments in the monitoring methodology are currently under preparation. This new control methodology in the concept and discussed with the sector allows for greater involvement and accountability of this sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u70	Madam President, Minister, the use of heroin is currently exploding in the United States, to the point that the subject has become a public health issue that is part of the presidential campaign. Many use heroin as a painkiller. It is cheaper than conventional painkillers and is illegal, so it can be obtained without medical prescription. It's paradoxical, but that's how it is. Its consumption has increased by 150 per cent in six years and its deaths have increased by 225 per cent since 2011. To curb the magnitude of this phenomenon, in addition to border control and the fight against Mexican cartels, medically assisted treatment to help drug addicts get out of their addictions is regularly cited as an option in the press. It is in this sense that the Obama administration has announced a relaxation of the regulation on prescription by doctors of drug treatment based on buprenorphine. In addition, chemist Kim Janda created what would seem to be the most promising vaccine against heroin addiction. Unfortunately, this vaccine has so far been unable to find funding for the clinical tests it requires. Minister, can you report on heroin use in Belgium? I know in particular that we do analyses by means of what we discover in the sewers, which shows that Antwerp is the most drug addicted city in Belgium. This has nothing to do with the president of the N-VA of course! Can we talk about big expansion, as is the case in the United States? Is it possible to quantify the number of consumers and dependents? Can we observe the same phenomenon of sliding the prescribed painkillers legally to heroin in Belgium? How are heroin addicts taken care of? What is your position on diacetylmorphine-assisted therapy? What do you think about vaccine research? What do you think explains why no one wants to take over the funding of Professor Janda's vaccine tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u71	Mr.Flahaux, the 2013 Health Survey of the Scientific Institute of Public Health, conducted among people between the ages of 15 and 64, shows that 0.2% of those interviewed used heroin or a substitute during the year preceding the interview. The results remain stable over time and therefore do not appear to be expanding, as seen in the United States. On the basis of data from the Treatment Demand Indicator, which collects all data concerning people applying for treatment for a drug problem, in 2014, 3,079 people were being treated for problematic use of opiates. There, too, we do not see an increase in the number of processing requests. We do not have data to draw conclusions about a possible shift from legally prescribed painkillers to heroin. It seems unlikely that such a slide will be observed, as it is difficult to believe that patients in treatment for pain under reimbursed prescription are taking the step towards street heroin, which is an uncontrolled substance, much more expensive and leads to a high dependence. People who are dependent on heroin can receive substitution therapy with methadone or buprenorphine combined with psychosocial support in Belgium. The aim of alternative treatment is to help drug addicts reduce or even stop their heroin use. This type of treatment enables the target group to improve health and quality of life by limiting the harm associated with heroin use. Based on PharmaNet data, 17,026 people received methadone or buprenorphine-based treatment in 2014. The outpatient care of drug users is the responsibility of the Regions. The federal authority is responsible for the legal aspect of the prescription, the issue of the medicine and possibly its reimbursement and the reimbursement of medical consultations. In the event that continued treatment with diacetylmorphine is envisaged, I would like to emphasize the need and priority for a strong framework for conventional substitution treatments. In addition, if the project were to be continued, it will be necessary to ensure a comprehensive reflection and decision that takes into account the important competences of the federated entities in this area, as well as the characteristics and capabilities of the existing care offerings for this target group. According to several recent articles, a vaccine developed in the United States is currently being tested in animals and is therefore in the non-clinical development phase. Like any other medicine, the development of a therapeutic vaccine depends on many factors, such as the need for a new treatment in terms of public health in relation to existing treatments such as methadone, the scientific evidence obtained from non-clinical and clinical studies as to the efficacy and safety of the proposed vaccine and the financial means available for its development and registration. Although Kim Janda's vaccine is described as promising on the basis of non-clinical trials, the information currently available does not allow us to determine whether the vaccine meets the requirements for starting a clinical study. We need to make progress in research. They are promising but are not yet strong enough to convince us to start a clinical study. Care should be taken with clinical studies. In fact, there are deaths in France and Serbia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. You have pointed out one element that helps to avoid an increase in heroin consumption, which is seen in the United States, is the fact that painkillers in our home are reimbursed while they are substantially less in the United States, which is ultimately an "incentive" to heroin use.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u73	Madam President, Minister, low or medium myopia and astigmatism can be corrected by night lentils. It's orthokeratology. These are lenses made to measure from a topography of the eye. Ranged during sleep, they slightly compress the cornea in order to reshape it. The view then no longer needs correction during the day. In children, wearing such lenses could even slow the progression of myopia. This discipline is not new since it appeared in the 1960s. However, it is not very widespread in Belgium and the specialists who practice it remain rare despite the technological advances in this field. It would appear that the opinions are even divergent, with some calling into question its usefulness. However, this technique has many advantages. It's totally reversible. It is convenient, especially for people who can hardly wear glasses or lenses during the day. I am thinking here of some professionals, sportsmen or people who care about their look. It can also correct several visual defects at the same time. The only constraints appear to be the price (350 to 450 euros per year), strict hygiene conditions, close monitoring, mainly during the first six months and few contraindications. Minister, what can we say today about this method? Is there a hindrance to its results? Is it really safe? And if so, how can we explain that orthokeratology remains marginal? Would you encourage this method? Is there a list of approved specialists? Is there a need for a specific authorization to practise? Is it possible, in the long run, to imagine that part of the cost will be reimbursed by social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u74	As far as orthokeratology is concerned, opinions differ. Some question its effectiveness. In the various organs of INAMI, there have not yet been any applications or proposals for reimbursement of this technique. The ophthalmologist has therapeutic freedom and may prescribe night lentils if they appear to be appropriate and scientifically supported. Where appropriate, it is imperative for the provider to inform the patient of the cost to be borne by him, as there is no refund for this type of lentils.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u75	Minister, the question remains open, as is your insinuated answer. We'll notify you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u76	Madam President, Minister, there seems to be a reform of the CTG. I was wondering if that discussion is still going on. Who's involved? When is a result expected? What exactly are the issues addressed in this reform? In concrete terms, do you also envisage limiting the possibility of derogating from the opinion of the CTG in order to avoid future situations as we have known in the Soliri dossier? My two questions are actually the same. Are you in general prepared to hold an exchange of views with Parliament before the Royal Decree is finally published? I have heard in the Benelux Council that, for example, our Dutch fellow Members are closely involved in the CTG procedure. That is not where the ratification takes place through the Minister, but at first there is the Parliament's intermediate route to increase transparency. We have a great deal of work to do here as regards the reimbursement of medicines. I believe that such an exchange of views, involving us in the development of the decision-making process on the reimbursement of medicinal products, is an important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u77	Mrs Van Camp, you know that I prefer thematic meetings to answering one question after another here. Of course, there is also the right to ask questions, and so I adapt. Of course, I am prepared to come here and explain how we see the reform of the Commission on medicines. In my view, this can fit in with the second exchange of views on the pact with the pharmaceutical industry. As you know, that pact has been concluded to ensure faster and sustainable access to innovative medicines with a justified cost for the Belgian health care system and for the company. The reform of the Commission on medicinal products should therefore be seen in this respect. I therefore believe that this theme fits in with that. In order to speed up access to innovative medicines and administrative simplification, both for the administration of the RIZIV and for the companies and the CTG, it will be examined how the dossier composition and handling can be brought into line with the need for an evaluation. For example, if a medicinal product is already refundable for a given indication, a subsequent application for a medicinal product should in a number of cases no longer undergo the evaluation of therapeutic value and place in medical practice. Unmistakable, non-discriminatory and predefined rules shall be drawn up to determine the basis of reimbursement for the reimbursement of medicinal products which are no longer subject to the evaluation of therapeutic value and place in medical practice. It also examines the possibility of limiting administrative procedures for parallel imports. Recently we have made the decision by means of the law on various provisions to make a short track for paediatric indications. If there are paediatric indications and the reimbursement has come the whole way for the adult medicines, then let us not repeat the CTG for the paediatric indications all the work, but come to a quicker refund. This is all part of the implementation of the Pact. I propose, Madam President, that this be taken into account in the discussion of the state of implementation of the future pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u78	I think that would be fine, Madam Secretary. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u79	Question No 11213 by Mrs De Coninck is postponed. Question No 12234 by Mr Calvo is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u80	Madam Minister, I would remind you of the problem very quickly, even though most of us know it. Ladies who want to have their breasts reconstructed with their own tissue after breast amputation, pay about 2 620 euros for such surgery. That's what a survey of Kom Op Tegen Kanker shows. That amount is actually higher than EUR 1 527, which the RIZIV pays per operation to the surgeons. Moreover, in some cases, this imposition amounts to EUR 4 000. Doctors consider that the amount paid by the RIZIV is insufficient and therefore aesthetic supplements are charged that patients cannot recover. The KCE has now calculated that the most common breast reconstructions with their own tissue cost between 1 125 euros and 2 584 euros. The amount of the RIZIV is about in between, but doctors charge much more than what the KCE considers reasonable. When calculating the costs of those operations, the KCE certainly did not use the wet finger. Both the operations in the operating room, the hourly wages and the necessary manpower were taken into account. I think we all agree that something needs to be done about this. Madam Minister, you have quite rightly put a sum in the budget to solve this problem, but negotiations with surgeons are very difficult. At the beginning of February, the women's organisations VIVA-SVV and side-side took action in your cabinet, asking you to take control of these talks, knock on the table and demand a solution. We are now June and last week a consultation between the surgeons and the sickness funds has again yielded nothing. We appreciate that you are giving the consultation a chance, but we believe that it has taken long enough. We think you should take matters into your own hands. My questions are very simple. What will you do after this failed consultation last week? Do you think there's a solution in sight? Will you take matters into your own hands? What timing will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u81	Madam Secretary, you will not be surprised that I do not fully agree with what Mrs Jiroflée says. In the meantime, the question is a little out of date, because the negotiations are no longer at the stage of surgeons and sickness funds, but at the Medicomut, which is now in progress and is due to reach an agreement on 4 July. The proposal on the table is not exactly the same as the one that was proposed earlier between the sickness funds and the surgeons. Even the proposal now on the table, which I have been able to look at, is more or less acceptable to all parties, in the sense that an increase in the surgeon's fee is provided for, which will allow unauthorized supplements to disappear. The patients can only benefit from that. This will also increase the transparency of the ex post account. Unfortunately, I also have some comments and those are in this text on page 1. It says that the surgeons must ensure that they provide 40% of the interventions in double rooms. On page 4, the amounts of 2 500 and 3 500 are listed as supplementary fees. If you calculate this, this amounts to a reduction of the fee supplement for a single room to 80 or 85 %. You are not surprised that I have some reservations about this. That is why I would have liked to have heard your views on this dossier and this consultation. The only thing on which I agree with Mrs Jiroflée is the question of when are you going to take this meeting to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u82	Thank you for your questions, ladies Jiroflée and Capoen. The fees established by the RIZIV on the basis of the nomenclature for breast reconstruction after breast cancer or preventive mastectomy are insufficient according to plastic surgeons in the current context. They therefore ask their patients for supplements which, quite wrongly, are described as aesthetically, they refer to as aesthetically, aesthetically and therefore not even reimbursed by the supplementary insurance. This, of course, makes the procedure less accessible to many women. It is in that respect that the last national agreement on medical funds for 2016-2017 and the 2016 healthcare budget once again provides for an additional budget for the revaluation of breast reconstruction and the setting of tariffs with an agreement declaration. In the context of this review and in order to put an end to the practice of so-called aesthetic supplements, negotiations have been taking place in the RIZIV for seven months, including the insurance institutions and the representatives of plastic surgeons. I very much hope that a special agreement will soon be concluded between RIZIV and a number of hospitals to ensure that so-called aesthetic supplements are no longer requested by surgeons, so that breast reconstruction will be accessible to a greater number of women in all circumstances. It's a fact that it wasn't seven easy months of negotiation. The positions at the table are therefore very difficult. You have already quoted the new proposal in detail, Mrs Capoen. That proposal is still on the Medicomut table. I assume you have your sources there, too, but I have not seen very often that a proposal that has not yet been adopted is very comprehensive, but there are many other things that are very fragmentary in this report. That has been noted. The new proposal on the table was re-launched at the Medicomut meeting on 4 July. You do what you want, but I cannot and will not anticipate discussions and consultations. We always say that the results in our healthcare system come from the consultation model. So I will certainly not anticipate the talks that will take place in the Medicomut of 4 July 2016. As you know, I am already very closely involved in this through my cabinet representatives. Anyway, I know it's about seven months. However, a long way has already come. You can put both points of the proposal side by side. A proposal is always a compromise. Anyone can compromise. However, if there is to be a compromise and the supplements are out of the world, it will be a good thing for many women. Perhaps after that the plastic surgeons will be able to request less large aesthetic supplements. However, we will make a higher refund. I have also spent money on this. A compromise is always a little bit of winemaking, as in marriage. Some days there is more water and some days more wine. However, we will still benefit most from an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u83	Madam President, Mrs Capoen, there are indeed already texts. Apparently, you've been able to study them better than I have. However, from what I hear, I do not have the impression that we should be very optimistic about the agreement being reached. Madam Secretary, I do know that you were always involved in the file in the background. Only you yourself point out that seven months is a terrible long time. I repeat, I do not have the impression that the landing has been deployed. If that is the case, I will be happy. I hope that the optimism of Mrs Capoen and yourself is justified. I'll be very happy when we land and all the aesthetic supplements will be gone. That is what we are talking about. Madam Secretary, you put that very well. The aim is to ensure that breast reconstruction with its own tissue will be accessible to more women. The date of 4 July 2016 is indeed not very far away. My question had been put before. I had also just heard that last time there was no landing, although that landing was also envisaged at that time. That is why I thought I should ask my question again. The date of 4 July is indeed not that far off. We are curious about the result. I hope you're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u84	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Like Mrs Jiroflée, I have been working on this dossier for over a year, as you know. It is my intention and everyone's intention that the patients should win and pay as little as possible out of their own pocket. The proposal, as I understand it so far, is absolutely a step in the right direction, because it meets most of the wishes. Unlike Mrs Jiroflée, I may be a great optimist and I prefer to be in life like that. However, it seems to me that it is difficult to reach a compromise if one of the parties sets the bar in such a way that it is difficult for the other to overcome it. Moreover, restrictions on pay supplements in single rooms are not included in the government agreement; there is no political consensus on this. If the surgeons accepted this, they would in fact set a precedent for other specialities and I suspect that they would most likely not want to bear that responsibility. The abolition of supplements in single rooms is ultimately simply the political agenda of mainly the CM, but partly also of the Socialist Mutualities, presumably because they hope to book higher profits on their hospitalization insurances, which they have sold to most of their clients in the meantime. That happens while private insurers are not sitting around the table in the Medicomut and are therefore unable to negotiate. Madam Minister, I do not think it would be a bad idea to follow these negotiations closer and possibly hold your hand in them. Otherwise, I fear that the patients will be the victims of the possible departure from the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u85	Madam President, I would like to make a few points. Mrs Capoen, you are quoting a document that does not exist. As long as there is no agreement in the Medicomut, a document is non-existent and can be changed. You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u87	Good. So you're actually quoting what's written on the other side of the moon to make an allusion on yesterday. You are quoting an existing document, a document which is still being worked out in order to reach an agreement in negotiations. Do you have any idea what responsibility you bear here in the Committee on Health with regard to all those people, all those women, who are waiting for a refund? I hope you realize that. If you realize that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u88	Madam Secretary, absolutely, truly, I do not think it is a bad idea to follow the negotiations closely. I'm very optimistic. I am convinced that there will be an agreement and that will be a compromise. The surgeons need to water the wine. That's probably a lot more than they're hoping to do. Eventually, the patient primes. However, you also have a duty to ensure that an agreement is actually reached this time, because this problem has existed for many years. This has just become untenable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u89	Part of what I wanted to say, I shouldn't say anymore, because the Minister did a great job. I totally agree with that. Mrs Capoen, if there were a precedent by abolishing those supplements, that would be a very good thing for the patient. That could perhaps be considered by your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u90	Question No 11338 by Mrs Renate Hufkens was withdrawn. Question No 11340 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u91	Madam President, Minister, the sale of alcoholic beverages is regulated in many ways in our country. In particular with regard to minors under 16 years of age, the law expressly stipulates that it is prohibited to sell such products to them. However, according to the figures of the Public Health FPS released for 2015, 10% of ATMs located in the public space are in breach, as they do not allow for compliance with this legislation. These automatons would, therefore, provide much of the food for young people's evenings. I quote an official who testified in an article: "The problem is always at the level of the identity card reader, who normally allows the machine to read the age of the person who wants to buy a beer can or a bottle of alcohol. Generally speaking, machines that are located in stations or that are adjacent to a store do not pose a problem. Infringements are usually placed near roads, often far from any other trade." Minister, I know your concern to protect young people from the risks of alcohol consumption, and your motivation to fight firmly against the problems raised. Do you already have figures for the control of automatons for the first months of 2016? If so, what is the evolution of the offences found in federal service controls? What decisions have you made to better inform and sensitize the owners of these machines to keep them in a state of regulatory operation? In addition, what options have been used to better sanction recurring cases of violations of legislation? Finally, could you inform us of the current state of consultation with the federated entities to deal with the problem, particularly in terms of prevention of alcohol risks among young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u92	Mr Calomne, as in 2015, there were 10 per cent of alcohol sales offences in vending machines in the first quarter of this year. This is an improvement over the situation five years ago. The number of offences at the time ranged from 16 to 18%. This improvement can be partly explained by the more severe fines. Indeed, in 2014, the maximum amount of fines increased from €6,000 to €18,000 per offence. The sale of alcohol to minors is well known in the distribution sector. To organise new information campaigns for the distribution professionals sector seems superfluous to me. On the other hand, it is still necessary to raise awareness among the many associations and their volunteers during the organization of evenings and events. This is why the Tobacco and Alcohol control department has prepared an information brochure on how to contribute to a festive and safe atmosphere for young people. This week's brochure will be sent to local authorities, for example to all mayors or youth aldermen. They are in fact best placed to disseminate this information to the organizers of evenings and events. It is not by chance that we are doing this now. We know that at the end of the school year, children's parties are organized. You don't need alcohol to have fun. That is the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u93	I thank the Minister for her various answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u94	Questions No 11390 by Mrs Valérie Van Peel and No 11448 by Mr André Frédéric were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, your administration and those of the Netherlands would work together to draw up a protocol agreement to determine concrete orphan medicines through horizon scanning and then to test in a pilot project how cooperation would actually start. There have recently been reports that Austria would also be involved in this cooperation. I wonder where that stands. Has the cooperation agreement been fully concluded? In what way is cooperation practically regulated? Has the horizon scanning taken place yet? What medicines have actually come out of the bus for the pilot project? In what way will this happen? When does it start? What's the progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u96	Mrs Van Camp, there has indeed been progress in this experiment, which is supranational. Not only has a country been added, but the agreement with Austria has been signed on 17 June. The negotiations between our administration and the Austrians have been going on for some time. As regards the first pilot project, a joint evaluation report has been prepared under the joint authorship of the Committee on Medicinal Products and the Scientific Advisory Council of the Dutch Healthcare Institute, its counterpart. To my knowledge, it is the first time that two European Member States have jointly written an evaluation report on a medicinal product for which reimbursement procedures run simultaneously across national borders. The cooperation is carried out at a practical level between the respective administrations of the two institutions, with mutual respect for the statutory deadlines, the response times, correspondence and so on, which are part of the respective reimbursement procedures in the Netherlands and Belgium. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has also been informed that the report has been completed in accordance with the agreements made between the three Member States. In addition, there is cooperation at several levels, regardless of this pilot project, on future terms of reference and data exchange, because that is also part of our cooperation. Together with the Belgian Knowledge Centre, the methodology of horizon scanning of the Dutch Health Institute is further developed and scientifically substantiated with the aim of establishing an instrument that could be used on a voluntary basis in most Member States. I look forward to taking note of the list of future pharmaceutical products to which you refer. The course of events is clear. There will be intensive cooperation in the areas covered by the agreement. These are, as I said, the horizon scanning, the health technology assessment, the exchange of information and last but not least, a joint agreement negotiation which I hope to be able to communicate the results and the evaluation in the coming months. As you can see, we have done a great deal of work in less than a year. We are not only expanding to other countries, but we are also working on the substance of all these procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u97	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, is the evaluation report concerned with the procedures that exist on both sides and has there not yet been a concrete drug started to evaluate together?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u98	The first pilot project is over. Since the medicinal product was not retained, as a result of a joint conclusion, there is also no further notification. Only those who will come to a price setting will be notified. There are those who die and route the route because both countries believe that they do not meet because of too risky safety; the patient's safety is paramount, for all countries. We have experienced something recently in France and Serbia. Once again, safety is paramount. If it is not maintained because of safety or other factors, then no further information will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u99	So it's always about a new drug and that whole procedure is going through together from the CTG?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u100	According to the usual procedure, this is put into the CTG and they work with them through the Healthcare Institute. At the end, if both approve the medicinal product, the price will be negotiated jointly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u101	Madam Secretary, what progress has been made with the reform of Royal Decree No. 78? Small steps are being taken in relation to the GGZ professions. Where are we on the rest of these reforms? Will they be submitted to Parliament? If so, when? What conversations have taken place in the meantime? We have already had the feedback here on other major yards that you have started, to the main lines you have set out. Is the reform also being discussed here? What's the timeline for that? My specific question relates to nursing training. The angel in question is the function differentiation. At a conference at the FOD about the nursing specialist, you stated in a video message that you are watching how you would arrange the necessary recognition for the title of nursing specialist. Where are we on this? Has anything been worked out in connection with the nurse specialist? What direction are the discussions on the future of the nurse's profession and on the title of nurse? When will clarity be created on the training and title of nurse?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u102	Mrs Van Camp, the main thrust of the reform of the law on the exercise of health professions is indeed established. Soon, a working group in the government will validate the guidelines and then give a general explanation to the committee. I can also inform you that, after the summer recess, a conference will be organised with the representatives of all healthcare professions and care facilities. The invitation to participate will be sent before the summer holidays. A case is certain. In the model we propose, the patient will be central, patient empowerment will be important and the autonomy of the patient, as well as of every care provider, will be strengthened. We go to a very different model than the current pyramidal model, where the doctors are at the top of the pyramid. We are moving towards a model in which care providers can work on an equal footing and autonomous basis and where the patient needs to work multidisciplinaryly and in full consultation. As I always say, the patient has a place in the cockpit. Then we'll talk about the patients of today and the next generation. We will involve them much more in maintaining their health. This is a great work and the recognition of nursing specialists is part of it. Although training is a competence of the Länder, it also has to do with the transposition of the European directive to give nurses European mobility. This was also discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference in March, where Mrs Milquet and Mrs Crevits asked me to write a letter with further explanation. In the meantime, this letter has been sent to the competent European authorities. It is important to me that we have the same regulation in Flanders and Wallonia, because we are transposing a European directive for the purpose of European mobility. It would be strange, then, that some of our nurses do not have mobility within our country and that someone from Flanders would not be able to work in Wallonia, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u103	Did they cut the knot?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u104	Not yet, because they both wanted a letter with clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u105	Is the letter of explanation from the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u106	No. We have asked the European Commission further questions on the suggestion of Mrs Milquet and Mrs Crevits. Meanwhile, Ms. Milquet was replaced by Ms. Schyns. This has delayed us for a few weeks, but I fully understand it since the latter had to settle down and immerse itself in this difficult dossier. Both Mrs Crevits and Mrs Schyns were prepared to provide input for that letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u107	Don't you have the answer yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u108	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u109	The inquiry No. 151 by Mrs. Véronique Caprasse is postponed. Questions No 11617 by Mrs Els Van Hoof, No 11624 by Mr Daniel Senesael and No 11626 by Mr André Frédéric are postponed. I will turn my questions Nos 11424 and 11529 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u110	Madam Minister, the use of the chemical substance phenylalanine in pesticides has increased considerably in recent years. I don't think I'm gonna tell you anything new about that. In 40 years use increased by a factor of 260 to 825 000 tonnes per year; 76 per cent of this is used in agriculture, but also in public and private space a lot of this substance is spread. Last week we took note of a colleague's question to Minister Bellot. The reply showed that SNCB also injects lavish products with a lot of arthropods into its roads and along the railway lines. The World Health Organisation recently concluded that this substance is likely to be carcinogenic to humans. Other studies indicate that phenylalanine also acts as a hormone disrupting agent. We believe that these findings should encourage us to exercise great caution. We believe that the Belgian Government should encourage the precautionary principle to be applied in determining the presence of arthropods in our bodies, our food and even in breast milk. Within the European institutions, we believe that Belgium should be in favour of not extending the expired authorisation for the use of this substance. This has a long history within Europe. It's been discussed a few times. Two weeks ago, the Standing Committee did not take a position because opinions were too divided. If I am well informed, it will now be up to the European Commission on Friday to take a position on this. We believe that Belgium should try to influence this. In addition, we do not believe that the Belgian Government should wait and see to it that within Belgium the use of fertilizers for private use in public spaces is prohibited, in line with the example of our neighbouring countries France and the Netherlands. A few weeks ago, Minister Borsus replied that he was following the opinion of EFSA, the European Food Agency, despite the fact that this is contradicted by other opinions. This morning, Minister Borsus' cabinet replied in the same way at the committee meeting. I understand the Cabinet doesn't take into account the other studies. I also find it difficult to dismiss this matter as an agricultural issue and to say that a large part of it belongs to the regions and the Communities. We believe, however, that it is a very clear theme for health, because it is about what we breathe, what we eat, what ends up with our children and in their food. It is also a question of what happens to our children and to our children's food. We therefore believe that this is a matter of public health. Madam Health Minister, as Minister Borsus has already said the same twice, we would have liked to have heard your opinion on this. Madam Secretary, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u111	Madam President, Madam Minister, given the late hour, I will not repeat what Mrs Jiroflée said. After all, I agree with her. My question was put in the same direction. I would like to agree with where she ended up, namely that it is absolutely not an agricultural issue, but that it is really a public health issue. I have already asked several questions about the problem, and I count here seven questions to your fellow Members, Mr Marghem and Mr Borsus, and also to yourself. We do feel that the current government is very hesitant and hesitant about the issue. Glyphosate is really not a selective herbicide and really kills everything. It doesn't just kill plants and animals. Anyone who has seen the most recent broadcast of Panorama about the influence of arthropods on the feeding of piglets can testify that it was terrible to watch. It is not because it has not yet been proven or because no tests have yet been carried out with humans that it is not harmful to humans. It's cynical to use that as an argument. My question is this. What position will Belgium take in the technical committee on Friday 24 June 2016? We can make decisions in our capacity as a Member State. I fully agree that we should uphold the precautionary principle and that we should not equate the word "carcinogen' with "carcinogen'.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in application of the Protocol of 6 November 2014 between the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health, on the one hand, and the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, on the other hand, plant protection products are the responsibility of Minister Borsus. However, the protocol stipulates that the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs, Agriculture and Corporate Integration will inform me in good time of policy choices that are directly related to public health. Minister Borsus is therefore responsible for determining the Belgian position on the Commission's proposal for the extension of the EU type-approval for tracers. As required by the protocol, I was informed in good time of his proposal for a Belgian position, namely to support the Commission's proposal. I therefore fully agree with the position proposed by my colleague. The evaluation, carried out at European level, shows great transparency. The following elements are publicly available: the summary of the dossier; the evaluation report prepared by the rapporteur Member State Germany for whom it is intended; it contains 4 000 pages; everything related to the peer review organised by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), such as comments on the German evaluation report and how these comments were handled; all reports from various EFSA-organised meetings with national experts and EFSA conclusion. This is again about a small 8,000 pages. In contrast to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, Germany and EFSA have proposed not to classify arthropods as carcinogenic. The European Commission has asked EFSA to pay particular attention to the classification by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. To this end, a meeting was held with experts from the European Member States of the European Chemicals Agency, which has final responsibility for the definition of the harmonised European classification, of the US EPA and of the International Agency of Research on Cancer. This meeting allowed a better understanding of the divergence between the EU on the one hand and the International Agency of Research on Cancer on the other. Among other things, the following elements play a role. For the European evaluation, far more studies were assessed than by the International Agency of Research on Cancer. A finer analysis was therefore possible in the EU. All the studies examined by the International Agency were also taken into account at European level. So it is not true that both agencies looked at different types of studies, because there was a common basis for the studies they assessed. However, the European evaluators have involved further studies. In assessing the epidemiological studies, the European experts gave greater weight to the outcome of the largest and more relevant agricultural health studies than other studies. The main aim of the European evaluation is to study the properties of the substance rather than the numerous products and mixtures placed on the market. Published data from studies carried out on products whose origin is not always traceable or with unclear composition do not give a clear picture of the hazard or risk of the active substance itself to the user. As you yourself point out, the World Health Organisation, in conjunction with the FAO in the context of the Joint FAO/WHO Meeting on Pesticide Residues, has concluded in the meantime that arthropods should not be classified as carcinogenic. The International Agency is therefore isolated with the classification as probably carcinogenic. It should not be forgotten that there is already a harmonised European classification in application of Regulation No. 1272 of 2008, not classified as carcinogenic. Germany initiated the procedure for revising this classification and also submitted a report to ECHA, which again does not propose the classification of arthropods as a carcinogen. In its proposal, the European Commission has taken into account this ongoing procedure by introducing an undertaking that the approval of the substance will be reviewed as soon as the classification changes in a way that may have an impact, in application of approval criteria. In view of this whole context, I believe that this is being dealt with in an appropriate way with the question of the classification of arthropods. Not only in terms of possible carcinogenic properties, the European Commission's proposal provides an appropriate response: all the critical points of the European evaluation are addressed in a proportionate manner in the Commission proposal, in particular by the ban on plant protection products containing the controversial formulation ingredient POE-tallowamine. With regard to non-professional use in public space, I believe that the plant protection products containing phenylalanine should be assessed in the same way as any other plant protection product according to the legally established criteria. It is a persistent misunderstanding that the Netherlands and France have imposed specific restrictions on debt-based debt-to-GDP instruments. In France, a horizontal measure was adopted, which will enter into force from 1 January 2019, limiting the sale of plant protection products to so-called amateurs, i.e. non-professional users of such products, to those that can be used in the organic production method, to those that meet the definition of low-risk plant protection product and to bio-control agents. Of course, this measure will also have an impact on the substances containing phenylalanine, but these products will not be treated differently from other plant protection products. In the Netherlands, too, it is a general measure for the use of herbicides in green facilities and thus not a measure specifically applicable to resources based on arthropods. I believe that everything can continue to be made a business. It is to your credit that you continue to do so, but if all the studies and all the major bodies say that there is really no danger at the moment, then I believe that our country will draw the right conclusions from this. I therefore support the position taken by my colleague, Minister Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. I'll come back to a few elements. Even if it is only likely to be carcinogenic, we still believe that the precautionary principle should be applied. Besides, it's clearly hormone-distorting. That is what other studies have mentioned. You say that the Netherlands and France do not have a specific ban on satsumas. That might be possible, but the measures you are listing yourself will ultimately have the effect of eliminating the possibility of use in non-professional means. If we were to ban it from non-professional means, I think we would have been a long way away. That is why I would like to table a motion for a recommendation on this matter. We continue to believe that Belgium should take a different attitude towards Europe and, independently of the decision at European level, should apply the precautionary principle and therefore ban private use, as is the case de facto in the Netherlands and France, even if it does not contain the name. Weed-killers with turnips should certainly be banned in public places such as schools, hospitals or along the railways. Finally, we would also strongly urge research into more environmentally responsible alternatives to fertilizers in agriculture, together with the Regions and the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u114	Madam Secretary, I agree. The file's definitely not closed yet. This is also explained by your long answer, in which you defend yourself. I also read between the lines of your answer that there are indeed many different opinions on the matter. I would add that we should not be naive and should not underestimate the chemical lobby that is working here. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u115	In these numerous scientific studies there is no influence whatsoever from the chemical lobby. The European agencies, like our agencies, are independent and have a code of conduct regarding lobbying. If we no longer accept the conclusions, then I do not see why we should all continue to contribute to the creation of European agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u116	Minister, allow me to ask you to consult these studies. You will find that all the names of those who studied have been struck out. The question is why. Is there a conflict of interest? Read these studies! That's impressive. This represents hundreds, if not thousands, of pages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u117	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the Minister 1. urge at European level to postpone the extension of the necessary authorisation for the product arthropods until the EU classification by ECHA has been completed and there is clarity on the potentially hormone-distorting properties of arthropods, given that this may provide additional arguments against renewal of the approval; 2. independently of the decision to apply the precautionary principle at European level and to prohibit the use of arthropods in approved herbicides for private use; 3. independently of the decision to apply the precautionary principle at European level and to prohibit the use of herbicide-containing herbicides in public places such as schools, hospitals or along railways; 4. to speed up research into ecologically sound alternatives to arthropods in agriculture, in cooperation with the Regions." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the Minister 1. to insist at European level that the extension of the required authorisation for the glyphosate product be postponed until the ECHA has completed the European classification of chemicals and that clarity has been made on the potential characteristics of glyphosate as an endocrine disruptor, since these elements may provide new arguments against the renewal of the authorisation of this substance; 2. to adopt, irrespective of the decision taken at European level, the precautionary principle and to prohibit the use of glyphosate in the manufacture of herbicides approved for private use; 3. to adopt, irrespective of the decision taken at European level, the precautionary principle and to prohibit the use of herbicides containing glyphosate in public places such as schools, hospitals or along railway lines; 4. to accelerate the search for ecological alternatives to glyphosate used in agriculture in collaboration with the Regions." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Questions Nos 11668, 11694, 1970 and 11991 are transformed into written questions. We will return to the questions during the first week of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-21-54-commissie-ic448x.u118	Indeed, the 5 afternoon and the following week, it will be the morning.
