ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u1	The first questioner, Mr Delannois, will come later. His question No. 8236 is postponed until later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u2	Mr President, Minister, notice of strike was given last June at the federal level in all emergency areas and in the Brussels-Capital Region. The SLFP union had announced shares in the course of January. Through these actions, he intended to denounce several shortcomings in the implementation of the reform. I quote: "non-compliance with the legislation in force with regard to the choice of status, non-compliance with the law establishing the labour regulations, non-compliance with the legislation on the welfare code or non-compliance with acquired rights." The SLFP also talks about a complete break in the dialogue with you and your services. Minister, what have you been in contact with union representatives since the June strike notice was tabled? What was the focus of the discussions? Where are the disagreements, if any? Have any progress been made? Have there been any consensus? If so, on what topics and to what extent? Are legislative changes necessary? Have you made any new arrangements with respect to the union following this new strike announcement? How do you respond to criticism? Later, I read in a press article that they were quite happy to have met you and that they had some appeasement. My question is a little dated, but I think it's interesting that you can tell us about your meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u3	Mrs Matz, my services meet regularly with trade union representatives as soon as regulations which must be submitted to consultation or to trade union negotiations are in the process of being drawn up. This was the case between June and November 2015, as part of the discussions on the draft royal decrees amending the administrative and financial status of firefighters and paramedics. As since the beginning of my mandate, my services have involved the various partners involved in trade union organizations from the very beginning of the process of amending the regulations. This is the informal consultation phase in which the partners comment on the texts. A series of meetings were held to discuss these issues. Many of these comments have been taken into account and incorporated into the texts. In a second stage, the formal negotiation phase was completed with the holding of a C committee on 17 November 2015. During this meeting, union representatives reiterated some of their remarks. However, they could not be retained by my services. I would point out that the drafting of a text is the result of a subtle balance between the interests of the various actors concerned. On the other hand, the very principle of negotiation implies that certain applications are accepted and not others. As a result of the new strike announcement, my employees received representatives from SLFP in early January. The discussion focused on shortcomings and malfunctions in some areas. I therefore asked the inspection, as part of its area control mission, to contact them in order to find solutions. Indeed, problems are not widespread in all relief areas. I must say that some SLFP members are not very familiar with the distribution of skills between local areas and the federal government. I understand very well that it is indifferent to employees that a particular level is involved. Their criticisms mainly target their local employers. Anyway, we have to solve the problems together. That is why, if we receive complaints, we send the inspection services to the areas concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u5	I'm going on. With regard to the other SLFP grievances that you echo, I would like to point out that the relief areas are all young structures that have only one year of existence at most. Moreover, the legal texts applicable to them are very recent. Their interpretation is not always clearly established at the zonal level. I believe that the zones apply these new texts in good faith, but they may be wrong in the interpretation of certain provisions. Corrections are sometimes possible when questions are submitted to my services or within the framework of the supervision on the deliberation of the zones. With a view to providing more concrete support to the rescue areas, I have instructed the inspection services to visit and try to find solutions, but also to draw the attention of the areas to various points of the regulations to which they are subject. In this context, particular attention is paid to the development of a working regulation. Communal areas have, for example, lost certain privileges, as officials sometimes circumvented this regulation. Problems came out of it. Finally, the problem of dilapidation of infrastructure is not linked to civil security reform. It is a legacy of the past and a consequence of the lack of investment by some municipalities in their fire departments. I agree that this situation cannot continue, but we must give the areas time to draw up an inventory of the work to be carried out and to list the most urgent ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u6	Mr Minister, this is not the first time that there has been a "confusion" between the competences of everyone, but, as you have rightly pointed out, the workers want their problems to be solved. I therefore thank you for your attention to this reform and for using the inspection to ensure that things are in order and that staff also work under acceptable conditions. In comparison to the shortcomings you mentioned, it is clear that there were fairly large disparities in certain advantages, in particular, that some municipalities could grant to their firefighters. It is also one of the aims of the reform to harmonize the overall benefits. This can create small frustrations. Thank you again for following this file closely. He'll take a lot of work before everything is smoothed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u7	Mr. President, Minister, since the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, the level of threat varies in our country. Since that terrible date, several special places have been placed on level 3 alert, justifying the use of the army for their surveillance. Since 17 November, level 3 has been applicable throughout the country and level 4 has been achieved in the Brussels-Capital Region. This brief summary indicates that some 550 military personnel have been on the streets since mid-November. This deployment was originally intended to be temporary and to relieve the police forces of those missions' time to carry out the operations necessary to reduce the level of threat. But it would seem that the deployment is in the process of settling down in the long term, as my Socialist colleagues feared at the beginning of the operation. This situation is not satisfactory for both the police and the military. The soldiers whose mission is to protect the streets are tired. They have been living in particularly difficult conditions for several weeks, with some being deployed away from any of National Defence's hosting infrastructure. Deputy Prime Minister, how much is the bill for this deployment for the interior in 2015? What is the amount actually paid to Defence? What about the forecast for the first quarter of 2016? What do you intend to do to improve the working conditions of military personnel deployed as reinforcements, or rather as replacements, of police services? You announce that 1,200 military personnel will become police officers with your new BDL status. Are you considering specific missions for these new police officers? What additional training are you planning to provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u8	Fernandez Fernandez, the total military deployment for 2015 amounts to 17 150 000 euros. The sum of €12 million has already been paid in 2015 and the balance has been paid to the Ministry of Defence on January 19, 2016. Currently, the decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 December 2015 is to extend by one month the deployment of 1,000 military personnel, including a maximum of 700 for street protection. A proposal for an extension of one additional month from 20 January was accepted. The National Security Council met yesterday and decided to maintain the threat at level 3. The government will decide on this on Friday. I cannot extrapolate for 2016 on the basis of the amount of 17 million euros for 2015, I cannot predict the future, I am not Mrs Sun. However, for the last four months, the bill was €9,354,761. The increase is the result of the threat after November 13 and I hope that we will experience the reverse movement in 2016 with a level of downward threat limiting costs. In addition, we have taken additional measures, such as the creation of a security corps that, in the long run, can influence budgets. Your second question on working conditions concerns the Minister of Defence. So let's move on to your third question about the new police officers. They will be part of the new Directorate for Monitoring and Protection of the Federal Police and will be responsible for monitoring and protection tasks, such as European institutions and other critical infrastructures. The practical modalities (statutes, skills, training) will be developed over the next few weeks, as I explained last week for the 20 projects emerging from the decisions on key tasks. One project concerns these modalities. The basic principle is that these persons will have the status of police officers, with the possibility of being armed. They will be able to pursue a career in the police, receive training and participate in the necessary examinations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u9	I thank the minister for his answers and especially for the figures on the amounts. The working conditions of the soldiers on the streets depend rather on the Minister of Defence, but you can understand that I am making you aware of the issue because they are still under your responsibility. As far as the new police officers are concerned, we will be careful. I see my colleague Demeyer coming, and I have no doubt that he will question you about the status of these officers, since you are working on them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u10	Mr President, Minister, we have recently learned of the general thrusts validated by the government with regard to the debate that has taken place over the past few months on the key tasks of the police. One of the conclusions is the creation of a monitoring and protection corps of some 1,600 units. If it seems to me that this corps should be set up in practice by creating a new directorate within the Federal Police, it is my responsibility that at this stage there is a debate as to whether the staff should be centralized with a federal police department in Brussels or deconcentrated, i.e. the provision of these staff for the administrative co-ordinating directors in the various boroughs. There is also the question of the exact tasks that would be assigned to this new entity. Can you already tell us your vision in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u11	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, in addition to the elements I have already provided last week, I can tell you that the small Council of Ministers has just approved the creation of a new Directorate for Monitoring and Protection. The practical changes, including the establishment of the workforce, have yet to take place. As I indicated last week, a working group was formed for each of the 20 projects. Of these projects, this is the most important. A fairly broad working group will therefore express itself on status, organisation, equipment, equipment, etc. With regard to the exact missions, I can mention, for example, the monitoring of royal palaces, SHAPE and NATO, international institutions and the European Union, the monitoring of courts and tribunals, the monitoring of public buildings, critical infrastructure and the organisation of protocol escorts and other ad hoc policing missions. Working groups will be established to develop practical and transitional modalities. As far as the numbers in general are concerned, I can already tell you that they will be set up in a deconcentrated manner, even if – it is clear – a part will still be retained at the federal or central level. The goal is to deconcentrate and be close to the operating sites, which is more pleasant. In addition, we want to combine this with a short career in Defence. Therefore, if people are allowed to work in a deconcentrated manner, i.e. close to their home, this career will be more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u12	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I think my colleague Julie Fernandez Fernandez will tell you that the soldiers of the second line of Spa would certainly want to be deconcentrated at the courthouse in Liège, which needs it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u13	Not just Spa's. I think Brasschaat units will also be interested in working in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 8468 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u15	Mr President, Mr Jambon, following the tragic attacks in Paris on Friday 13 November 2015, you recently declared on a Dutch public channel the possibility that the Belgian authorities have underestimated the support that terrorists seem to receive from the Muslim community in and around Brussels, in the context of the search for Salah Abdeslam, one of the main suspects. This vision is repeated in the press, especially last December: "The more general analysis I make is that support for terrorists in the communities is more present than I thought. If Salah Abdeslam can hide for so long, he has support in the communities. I didn't think that support was so important." Therefore, Minister, I would like to express to you my astonishment at such recurrent remarks by a minister of the interior who is in office but who, in my view, seems to be not only a confession of impotence in political actions, but also a deep malaise in relation to these communities. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Will you continue to stigmatize the Muslim community while denouncing amalgams, and beyond, endangering our living together? Could you give us some insight into the elements in your possession that could support your comments? Do you have an opportunity in Parliament today to explain to us what led you to make these statements? Do you have evidence, supported, that there is support in this community? Beyond your findings, what is the status of the search for one of the main suspects without affecting the proper conduct of the investigation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u16	Mr. Kir, I never said there was support from the whole community. Never. On the contrary, I have always said that we should embrace most of the Muslim world. We have to work with them, fight terrorists and extremists together. I do not want the debate to focus on the Muslim world on the one hand and the rest of society on the other. On several occasions and in each interview, I said that. This does not mean that one must deny that there is some support for a minority in this community. As I have always said, this concerns a minority. But to deny that there is some support, I don't think it helps either. On the other hand, in order to be able to move and hide for such a long time, support is essential. It is not a question of accusations, of stigmatization, but of a mere finding. A minority from the Muslim community must provide this support. Again, these are objective facts. I can't give you any details about the ongoing investigation. At present, we have no certainty as to the location of Salah Abdeslam. It is clear that the security and intelligence services are fully mobilized and are making every effort to find it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u17	I listened carefully to your answers. You say you never said that "the entire Muslim community" was involved and that only a minority was involved. The real question is: why do you mix facts of radicalism with the Muslim community? In other words, why are you talking about the "Muslim community" and not about some people? Why introduce Muslim and therefore religious identity as such into the public sphere? Then you talk about things that it is impossible to deny, like problems related to radicalism. But where are the facts? You're saying people would obviously have hidden terrorists. Bring us proof! Even today, there is nothing tangible in what you say. You have no specific address or information to provide. That's why I find it hard to believe your explanation. Since the beginning of the legislature, some populations have been regularly stigmatized. In parliament, you often try to reassure. In the media, however, a lot of oil is thrown on the fire. Let us recall what you said in relation to the municipality of Molenbeek. The problem was for you at the level of the whole commune, the rear base of radicalism. These words have been very badly experienced by this population. Your speech hurts to live it together. It is dangerous because the confidence of some people, especially young people, is already shaken and risks being completely broken. Seen from the outside, he also participates in a desire to raise one population against another. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that your primary role is to ensure the safety of our citizens, not to create insecurity among the population by making words that are both stigmatizing and frightening. Then you must empower your services to fight radicalism properly and effectively. You smile but we do not see the color of these additional resources allocated to our services! I would also like to ask you in a few moments about the blatant lack of resources allocated to the police areas; you know that. I wish to appeal and reaffirm the need to appease the Muslim community. We have to stop stigmatizing her. The whole Belgian population must be brought together, whatever its components. I will conclude by saying that we will remain vigilant. Whenever necessary, we will react, be indignant and do not hesitate to question the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u18	Deputy Prime Minister, the local police services are responsible, under the authority of the mayors, for the tasks of administrative police, including the maintenance and restoration of public order. Since the reform of the police services, the principles of the negotiated management of public space have been implemented on a daily basis. Specific training is provided to police officers in the management of large gatherings of recreational, sporting and in-service training. The mandatory Ministerial Circular MFO-2 provides that each staff member engaged in such a mission must attend two refresher sessions of 8 hours per year. Section leaders and platoon commanders are forced to three sessions per year. It is the responsibility of the coordinating director to organise compulsory training with and for police areas. If at the beginning of the reform these training courses did not pose any problems, we have to see, in recent years, many difficulties in being able to carry them out. What is sorely lacking at the moment is the unavailability of exercise grounds. The Brussels DirCo organised exercises in the Geruzet barracks in Etterbeek at the end of 2014 at the beginning of 2015 to train staff in the management of a centre for the assembly of arrested persons. While this training is indeed necessary, it is insufficient in the area of event management. Aware of these limitations, the Brussels DirCo had obtained the disposition of the Westakkers military district in Sint-Niklaas, but since the end of August it has been at the disposal of the government to receive the refugees. Your predecessor, Ms. Milquet, had studied and proposed the opening and development of a training centre at the site of the former Air Force Base in Goetsenhoven, Tienen. This project has remained in the cartons for budgetary reasons. The need for ongoing training and training is becoming acute, mainly for all Brussels areas that are heavily sought in terms of the negotiated management of public space. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you been aware of the particular difficulties affecting certain Brussels police services? What measures do you intend to take to deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u19	Mr President, Mr Kir, on the organisation of ongoing public order training for Brussels police areas, I shall first list the problems and then the solutions envisaged by the Brussels DirCo and those areas. The first problem concerns the lack of adequate land to carry out the various exercises and trainings in the field of public order. Secondly, with regard to the equipment and equipment available, since the reform of the police services, each local police area is responsible for the public order equipment and equipment of its personnel. Subsequently, there was a significant difference between the Brussels police areas in terms of protective equipment, weapons and vehicles used in the management of people's gatherings. The third problem is the capacity for law enforcement services to the detriment of training. In view of the fact that circular MFO-2 provides for the reinforcement of public order provided by the mortgaged capacity of the local police areas of the district, the availability of such personnel for training is rather limited given the number of law enforcement agencies in the territory of Brussels. On an annual basis, almost half of the exercises are cancelled due to real law enforcement services (extraordinary European summits, terrorist threat, demonstrations). In addition, the number of platoon commanders trained is also limited for various reasons: staff mobility, pension, number of trainings. The fourth problem concerns the trainers available. Exercises in law enforcement not only consist of training in intervention techniques, but also of training "cocktails Molotov" and use of tear gas. The latter is a specific and justified request, requested by the Brussels corps chiefs. The measures taken by the Brussels DirCo of the Federal Police and the police areas concerned are as follows. For the problem of the terrain, the Brussels DirCo will carry out various researches of training places. He has temporarily found land at the port of Antwerp where it is possible to carry out exercises on intervention techniques as part of the negotiated management of public space. This is a private land that is being sold and currently managed by the federal police, providing easy and free access. Therefore, in 2016, the Brussels DirCo will organise on this site the recycling exercises foreseen in the cade of Ministerial Circular MFO-2, binding for the staff of Brussels local police areas who will be engaged in the maintenance and restoration of public order in mortgaged capacity. In the long run, the proposal for a training centre at the site of the former Air Force Base in Goetsenhoven is well considered. At both the police and the Régie des Bâtiments level, this file is being studied and is therefore being processed. A first plan was managed by the federal police and the local police for a budget of 230 million euros. As I found this amount somewhat exaggerated, I asked for a review of the plan and a more realistic budget. Moreover, we still have legal problems with the Flemish government on the destination of this land. We are currently negotiating with him to change the destination plan. This means that the federal police and the local police are reviewing the plans together. The Régie des Bâtiments is to finalize its discussions with the Flemish Region. My will is to continue, and to have this field of exercise, not just for Brussels. This is useful and necessary in our training plan. I'm going to equipment and equipment. Following the debriefing of the demonstration on 6 November 2014, a working group led by a Brussels police zone took charge of this issue. The first orders are already under way. With regard to the capacity of law enforcement services to the detriment of training, the Brussels DirCo is reviewing police area engagement for ICAP training. The training days will be adapted to the events as well as the availability of the different police areas. These measures should ensure the number of training sessions. As regards the training of a sufficient number of platoon commanders for Brussels areas, the Brussels DirCo requested the National Police Academy to reactivate the trainings. With regard to the trainers available, efforts are being made to train other trainers for the "Molotovcocktails" training, but the need persists and depends on the frequency of training. The National Police Academy organizes trainings to increase the number of "Molotov" trainers. The Brussels DirCo requested the Brussels police zones to register their staff in order to ensure an acceptable quota at the borough level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u20	Minister, thank you for your full answer. Can you tell me if the private land in the port of Antwerp is operational for the police areas? [[Oui]] This is excellent news because it was an urgent need that needed to be met. I have noted all the improvements that are being made in training, in particular the possibility of organising them within the framework of the work. I will come back to the status of the Goetsenhoven study. If I understand correctly, to be sure of the elements of response shared in committee today, there is an overestimation of the budget of the project. With these means, we could perhaps do seven or eight police stations or perhaps even thirty throughout the country. I'm making one in my police area, which costs me 8 million euros. So, I think it's possible to make at least 40 of them. I appreciate you asking them to come with a more reasonable formula. If I understand correctly, the legal question of assignment must be removed. I hope that we will not fall into a Community problem with the Flemish Government which could say: "Er is een stedenbouwkundig problem", in other words, "the assignment is not good". That would be very damaging. We count on the relays you can have in the Flemish government to explain the urgency of responding to this crying need for our police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u21	Minister, on the occasion of your first presence at the Conference of Mayors, on 25 February 2015, the mayors of the capital wished to inform you of the difficulties faced by the police areas of the Brussels Region. Indeed, their underfunding falls on the shoulders of the municipalities and their taxpayers. For example, the cost of police per capita is 118 euros in Flanders, 123 euros in Wallonia and 225 euros in Brussels, as evidenced by the Belfius 2014 study on local finances, CPAS and police areas. As a result of various findings, you agreed to entrust a task force with the task of objectifying the financial situation of the six police and floor areas to a change in the distribution of the federal police on the national territory, ensuring a greater presence in the major cities and maintaining level 3 of the terrorist threat. Since then, water has sank under the bridges. As the climate has deteriorated considerably, other realities have emerged on the political agenda. What is the status of the working group? I guess he was born. If so, what is the outcome of the initiatives undertaken and what is the timetable for the actions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u22	Dear colleague, this working group has already met. I received the first minutes of this meeting and asked for proposals to be made quickly. You did not mention it, but at my last meeting with the mayors of Brussels, I expressed my willingness to have results before the end of the year. We were still in 2015! I have therefore asked my staff to submit proposals quickly. I can provide you with the data on the specific financing that the Brussels areas are already receiving, but extending here on this issue would make no sense. It is likely that the working group in question will again propose federal funding, which I understand. However, I believe it is important for Brussels areas to be more organized and to consider whether further synergies at the local level would not be appropriate to resolve their ongoing financial problems. I would point out here that there is no question of a merger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u23	Minister, you are certainly right. You have certainly already been told this in many debates: if you compare two regions, the Flemish Brabant and the Brussels-Capital Region in terms of elected officials, police areas and communes, you know that on the Flemish Brabant side there are more mayors and police areas than in the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u24	But here, the mergers are taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u25	That's normal. When you look at the numbers, they're huge. Compared to the Brussels area where you have nineteen communes for just over one million inhabitants, you have six police areas, while on the Flemish Brabant side I do not have the figure in memory, but I know that it is still quite important. I can therefore understand that, in the interests of greater coherence, there is a desire to move towards a merger. Minister, in relation to the working group, in your study of police areas and their needs, the situation is comparable to all Walloon, Flemish and Brussels cities. It is an element that is shared by the cities since the KUL standards have not been fully applied and there has been, I would say, a smoothing. We said we were going to apply them in full, but they never were. One thing that is important to me must also be taken into account. I am in a police area where we have a full framework and where we pay more as a municipality for the police area. We have been careful to complete the framework. What I would not like tomorrow is to have a facial analysis of the entire Region and to say that there is a shortage of personnel in area X, Y, Z and that they are given one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u26	We need respect for our efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u27	Yes, otherwise it would be indecent. That would mean that I have to withdraw a million euros from the area's budget and note that I lack the money to supplement my staff. I think it would be a shame not to take into account those who have worked for many years. I am not saying that we must take into account the efforts that have been made in relation to the past, but, at the very least, if there should be better consideration and funding in the police areas, that they should be made according to the KUL standards because they are objective. Thank you for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u28	Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about this. First of all, the priority is to guarantee 100 per cent nuclear security. I am, of course, thinking of the population in general, but more particularly of the workers in the power stations and the IRE (Institute for Radio-Elements). A year ago, we received the advice of the Supreme Council of Health. According to him, it was necessary to be able to increase the distribution of iodine. Without dwelling on reading the report, I will simply recall that the planning areas surrounding the plants are twenty kilometres, except for the site around the Fleurus nuclear facility, whose radius extends over ten kilometres. For the Supreme Council of Health, it was necessary to extend 100 kilometres, in other words, to the entire territory. In addition, the public with priority protection was made up of children, young people up to the age of 18 and pregnant or lactating women. At that time, you told me that you would take this advice into account, but you sent me back to Minister De Block, to whom I also asked the question, which also referred me to you. We did not feel a desire to move forward or to join in this matter. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) published its report on Friday. It contains a whole series of recommendations, including, once again, the enlargement of the distribution area for iodine tablets, which would include the whole territory of Belgium. Power stations are behind the border, either to the Netherlands or to France. This midday, in committee, the CEN (the Nuclear Study Centre), each of which will recognize the very high level of expertise, was in exactly the same direction because it has positioned itself here in the House by supporting the opinion of the AFCN on the distribution of iodine tablets. There is also a series of other very clear recommendations, in addition to the issue of iodine. A full consultation with France and the Netherlands is carried out in view of the situation of our plants. The aim would also be to work on improving a range of risk management mechanisms. After a year, I am obviously coming back to you since the positions of each other, and especially the expertise, strong and recognized at home in Belgium, all go in the same direction. Today, with your colleague Minister of Health, and in connection with all stakeholders, including pharmacists, but also the various health actors, are you going to put in place these recommendations, whether it concerns the iodine tablet, but also the warning devices? Have you worked on a strategy? Where are we today? Although the challenge must be to guarantee 100 per cent security in relation to all citizens, unfortunately at the same time the reality of what happened in Fukushima, and above all the evidence in scientific literature, including post-Fukushima, show how the availability of iodine in thyroid cancer risk management is a major factor. I would like to urge the government, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u29	Mr President, I shall be following up, not with an inquiry, but with two questions that I have tabled quickly. You know my region. This debate is very vague and gives rise to a lot of information and misinformation about the safety of our power stations, which is not what this afternoon is about. The catalogue of recommendations of the Scientific Council of the Nuclear Control Agency is very much in line with the problem we are already experiencing. One of these recommendations emerges. Mrs Fonck has just said that this is the provision of iodine tablets for a greater number of our citizens. You'll tell me if I'm wrong, but it would take one for every citizen. Could you provide me with a timetable specifying the deadline for this new contingency plan to come into effect? Do you estimate the precautions for iodine distribution and containment sufficient to date? If not, should these elements be reviewed to ensure such implementation in the near future? What is the possibility of incorporating into the nuclear emergency plan a new plan linked to the management and supervision of the post-accident phase, which we do not hope for and about which we are reassured? Is it currently being studied within your services? Could we already have information on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u30	Mr Minister, I will be particularly interested in the case of the residents of the Chooz power station, which is located in France, at the edge of our territory, with the prevailing winds towards Belgium and the Meuse flowing towards Belgium. In its opinion of 15 January on the future nuclear emergency plan, the Scientific Council of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency advocates two major changes. On the one hand, to extend the perimeter of the shelter and, on the other hand, to distribute iodine pellets throughout the country. With regard to this second aspect, the AFCN would only agree with the opinion of the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé of March 2015. It can logically be assumed that these necessary measures, but certainly not sufficient in view of the risks posed by nuclear energy, will apply not only to the residents of the plants built on Belgian territory but also to persons residing in the vicinity of plants established in neighbouring countries. This is particularly the case for the inhabitants who live near Chooz, but we could also mention Gravelines or Cattenom in other parts of our country. Minister, can you tell me what your position is with respect to the AFCN's recommendation to distribute iodine pills across the country? What about the extension of the perimeter of shelter from 10 to 20 kilometres? Do you confirm that Belgian residents of the Chooz power station will also be affected by the iodine distribution measure? Can you remind me of the situation with regard to the sheltering and distribution of iodine for the residents of Chooz? When was the last time Iodine was distributed to these residents? Can you tell me how these complementary measures will be funded and how local residents will be informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u31	Mr President, the completion of the update of the nuclear emergency plan is planned for this year, in accordance with my policy note. Now that I have received the opinion of the Scientific Council for Ionizing Radiation, it can be taken into account in updating the contingency plan. In particular, with regard to the strategy for the protection of the thyroid gland by taking stable iodine, for example, national and international experts, including the Higher Council of Health and, recently, the Scientific Council, have issued technical opinions. Both of these opinions agree with the need to ensure an organization that allows for the rapid availability of iodine tablets throughout the country in the event of a real emergency. Both opinions recognize the importance of the predistribution of tablets within 20 kilometres of the nuclear facilities and 10 kilometres for the IRE in Fleurus, which is currently in force around the Chooz power plant. However, the Higher Council of Health does not express itself on the strategy that the authorities must follow in order to extend it to the whole country. The Scientific Council of the AFCN proposes some pragmatic solutions: either a predistribution across the country or a storage of iodine tablets in all pharmacies in Belgium. This type of proposal, as well as any other suggestions, are evaluated in consultation with my colleague from Public Health in relation to the current situation. In addition to predistribution in the 20-kilometre zones, there are also stocks of iodine tablets in all operational civil protection units to allow distribution outside the 20-kilometre zone, where this would be necessary in the event of a real emergency, throughout the country. Pending the outcome of this analysis, I would point out that the current Belgian strategy goes further than the one currently in force in most of our neighbouring countries, which are also confronted with similar opinions. Moreover, not all neighbouring countries use the principle of predistribution of iodine tablets to the population. Similar analyses are carried out for other public protection actions, including containment. The Scientific Council of Ionizing Radiation proposes to extend the Chooz power station area from 10 to 20 kilometres as this is linked to the iodine tablet predistribution zone. For IRE, these values are still half, which has been validated by the Scientific Council. It should be noted that these are preparation areas and that the area where action will be taken in the event of a large radioactive discharge will be only part of this area, depending on factors such as the nature of the discharge, the speed and the direction of the wind. The updated nuclear emergency plan will continue to draw attention at first instance to the current phase of crisis management. However, as foreseen in the international recommendations and in the opinion of the Scientific Council on Ionizing Radiation, attention will also be paid to the structural transition from the current phase of crisis management to the recovery phase. In addition to the criteria for transition to the recovery phase, several points will be made regarding the issues to be addressed. The costs of these measures are borne by the Nuclear Fund provided by nuclear power plant operators. Notwithstanding the strategy that will eventually be adopted in the updated plan, it is clear that the actors involved in its implementation must be fully sensitized and informed about the subject. The same is obviously true of the population. After a first campaign in 1999 and a reminder in 2002, a national nuclear risk information campaign was conducted in March 2011 under the coordination of DG Internal FPS Crisis Centre. Currently, all the information on this website is still applicable and allows everyone to get the best information so that we are all ready to act together in the event of a nuclear or radiological incident. This information on nuclear risks, the reflexes to be adopted and the recommendations to be followed in the event of an incident, as well as on the actions of the authorities and services in this field, is regularly repeated, in particular during the annual nuclear exercises in Belgium. In November 2014, the Crisis Centre went even further in this communication on the risks of our modern society by launching a web portal (www.inforisk.be) with the slogan "Informing is preparing together". Through this web portal, citizens can find information about various risks surrounding them and take initiatives themselves to get to know and better prepare for certain emergencies. The importance of this preventive information is not limited to nuclear risks alone. It is cross-cutting to all risks and crises. The reflexes to adopt are similar in many situations. The principles of self-protection and citizen solidarity in crisis are applicable in all emergency situations. It is therefore wise to go beyond a communication limited to this risk alone without forgetting these specificities. This is why future preventive information actions will be harmonised for all risks. This communication on risks and behaviour in the event of a crisis is coordinated at national level by the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with various actors in emergency planning and crisis management in Belgium. The concrete actions to raise citizens' awareness will be launched in 2016 and continued over a three-year period, with a harmonised approach for all risks, while ensuring targeted information for specific risks related to nuclear or radiological sites as well as to so-called Seveso sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. A year ago, it remained very vague. There was the report a year ago, but also recently the AFCN and this noon the position of the CEN. In any case, you are now in agreement for the first time and clearly on the fact that we must also move forward on the availability of iodine tablets. I heard you're going to update the emergency plan this year. I would like to insist on a few points with you. The challenge of the iodine tablet distribution strategy is speed. When the incident occurs, you can't afford to think for a week. The speed of taking potassium iodide is a major element in thyroid and efficacy. You have mentioned two hypotheses: either at the level of pharmacists or at the level of citizens. The two hypotheses, for me, are possible, but on condition, I go back to that, that the stake is speed and efficiency. In relation to this, there is a whole series of points that are now at stake. First of all, in terms of the information that doctors and pharmacists have for the first line, as well as for those involved in emergency plans, I am thinking specifically of the MASH plan. These actors do not have sufficient knowledge of the issue of iodized prophylaxis. It is good to inform citizens, etc., but we must also be able to ensure that information is improved. It is a second point to which you will have to pay attention for the implementation of the strategy: the information now available on the potassium iodide tablet packs. Indeed, the information on boxes and leaflets is insufficient if we want to play on the speed of taking potassium iodide and on the effectiveness of thyroid/cancer prevention and dysthyroidism more generally. I plead for progress in this area and allow myself to make a series of suggestions on how to proceed, but let me remind you that it is with all the actors involved in emergency management but also with the health actors working on the front line, hospitals, within the framework of the MASH plans, that you will have to collaborate and consult in the coming weeks so that this measure is as effective as possible. I move a motion of recommendation. I do not want to read it all again, Mr. President. I think I synthesized it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u33	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive information. It is gratifying to see that a great deal of work has been done for better information and organization around this contingency plan. Information is obviously essential. I am confident that your services will be committed to ensuring adequate information and timely availability of prevention devices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u34	Mr Minister, you say that the Belgian strategy in this area goes further than that of the neighbours. Allow me to question this statement that you are making. The first strategy would be to get out of nuclear power and not to reopen cracked power plants that are worrying the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u36	I know it's not yours. I assume that this is not yours and that we want to get out of nuclear power. We believe that you are putting the Belgian population and the people of neighbouring States at too high a risk. The capacity to be independent of nuclear energy must be developed as quickly as possible, which will also create jobs, even if this is not the case. In relation to this, iodine distribution is only a pitfall. I mean, the day there's an accident, it's better to take iodine, but the best thing that can happen to us is that there's no iodine. We repeatedly call for comprehensive, accessible and renewed information, if possible, to be provided annually to all our citizens. Indeed, all Belgian citizens are affected by nuclear risk. When I hear that it takes so many years between two information campaigns, I cannot be satisfied. Repetition is needed in education and risk information, as many people move from year to year. What we are calling for, beyond the closure of power stations, is a distribution of iodine to all the citizens concerned, including those affected by foreign power stations close to home, such as the one in Chooz, with ongoing information campaigns. Minister, you cited the websites available to inform citizens. Frankly, go see them again! I do not know if you consulted them before giving us this answer. They are anything but legible. They are incomplete and not up to date. A website will never replace technical nuclear security. However, these sites in terms of information are not sufficient. The fact that all Belgian citizens today do not have iodine pills or the necessary information on the use of these pills, if any, is not acceptable. I have told your predecessors, and it also seems to me that I have already told you. We will repeat it as many times as is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u37	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - implement the recommendations of the Higher Council of Health in its opinion entitled "Nuclear accidents, environment and health in the post-Fukushima era". Partim: thyroid protection"; and published in March 2015, and by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, in its opinion of 15 January 2016; - to develop and plan a stable (i.e. non-radioactive) rapid distribution strategy; - extend the measure of availability of iodine for the inhabitants within a radius of 100 km or more of the accident site, as recommended by the Higher Council of Health; - to organise a consultation with pharmacists on the availability of iodine in Belgium; - to provide specific measures for particularly vulnerable populations such as children and pregnant and lactating women; - to organise a consultation with the Netherlands and France, in view of the situation of our plants near the borders; - to consider, with the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, the clarification of certain points of the package leaflet in the potassium diodiodure tablets currently distributed or stored in Belgium, in particular as part of the information of the medical and pharmaceutical profession; - to continue and monitor the implementation of programmes to improve iodine intake in Belgium, in so far as this preventive measure is likely to reduce the risk of thyroid cancer in the event of a nuclear accident and would reduce the prevalence of thyroid diseases, which are responsible for side effects following the use of non-radioactive iodine at high doses by the adult population." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads: as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, calls on the Government - implement the recommendations contained in the opinion Nuclear accidents, environment and health in the post-Fukushima era Part: Thyroid protection (March 2015) of the High Health Council and from the opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency of 15 January 2016; - develop and plan a strategy for the rapid distribution of stable iodine (i.e. non-radioactive); - to extend the provision of iodine, in accordance with the recommendation of the High Health Council, to residents living within a radius of 100 km and more of the site of the accident; - organise consultations with pharmacists on the availability of iodine in Belgium; - to provide for specific measures for particularly vulnerable populations such as children and pregnant women and breast-feeding mothers, - to organise consultations with the Netherlands and France, having regard to the location of our nuclear power stations at national borders; - examine together with the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products how the package leaflet in the packs of potassium iodide tablets currently distributed or stored in Belgium could be clarified in certain respects, in particular in the context of the provision of information to the medical and pharmaceutical corps, - to continue and monitor the implementation of the programmes to improve iodine intake in Belgium as such a preventive measure may reduce the risk of thyroid cancer in a nuclear accident and, in addition, may reduce the number of thyroid disorders, with the associated side effects, by taking high doses of non-radioactive iodine by the population.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Daphné Dumery. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u38	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Dumery, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize. I was stuck on another committee. You know the problem. Thanks for taking that into account. Minister, mass alcohol controls were carried out throughout the country on the weekend of 16 and 17 January. This week we also got the results of a whole series of checks. This shows that there have been many controls, the result of which was somewhat two-sided: fewer people were caught, but if they were caught, they would have had a lot to drink. It still appears that there are a little too few checks at night and at weekends. At least these are the findings of the BIVV. It appears that about 40 percent of fatal accidents occur at weekends, half of them at night and half during the day. We all want to reduce the number of road deaths. We all know that alcohol, drugs and speed are the most important elements in these road accidents. That's why I have the following questions for you. How many men does the police need to carry out night checks and how many men during the day? Is there a difference and is that one of the reasons why there are a little less checks at night? What is the extra cost of an alcohol check at night compared to daytime? Is it prepared to reorient the alcohol controls and provide more resources so that they can be done mainly at the risky moments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u39	Mr Minister, I will keep my question brief. Much has already been said, but not yet that many of us have never been checked. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u40	You know Jan Jambon, you can say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u41	I've never had a check either. You intend to have one in three drivers blown every year anyway. The question is how you will achieve that. What are the possibilities you have to do that? The figures for police checks show that there are fewer checks at night. I wonder if that is not the time when people go home, for example after a night out. Are you considering pushing up the controls during those hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u42	I take the two questions thematically together and think that an answer to all the questions will be given at the end. The answer is rather comprehensive, because the problem is important. First, the police check figures. The figures referred to are a measure of the subjective probability of packing. At some point, it sounded in the press that less was checked at night. You say you've never been checked before. These are the figures on the subjective probability of the road users being able to report the checks themselves. I've been checked twice, really, I'll show you that.(The Minister shows a BOB keychain) This happened at two totally different hours and in two totally different places. We must be careful to use these figures of the subjective chance of packing as the only indicator. During the nights there are likely to be fewer users of this application on the road, making it possible to register a sub-registration. On the operational implementation of night-time PDO-checks, I still have it up to now. However, I would also like to point out that during the nights the number of checks per hour and per agent will be significantly lower than during the day. This is due to lower traffic intensity at night compared to day hours. Another reason for this difference in the number of checks is the fact that the percentage of drivers driving under the influence at night and thus the handling time per controlled driver is higher. The capacity deployed is therefore not lower, but it works differently: at that time less traffic passes, more people are caught and the handling of such controls takes more time. During the first half of the ongoing PDO campaign, around 18.5 % of all controlled persons were checked during the night hours. These are objective figures, which somewhat nuance the subjective figures of your source. Still in the first half of the campaign it is clear that the number of persons to be checked at night is much lower than during the day. During the night checks, the integrated police checked an average of 2.89 persons per hour per officer. During the day checks, 8.28 persons per hour per agent, 3 times as many. We note that the integrated police organised 20.5% of the planned checks during the night hours. I would like to add some nuances to this aspect of the night check. The results of the checks shall be taken into account at the beginning of the check period. This means that checks starting at 20 o'clock or 21 o'clock and going through the night are included in the statistics as day checks. A similar phenomenon occurs at Saturday or Sunday morning checks at 7 a.m. Those checks are very useful for analysing driving under the influence, but are not considered to be overnight checks. You must interpret the figures correctly. With regard to the deployment of men, it is difficult to make general statements, especially since all managers also carry out a local risk analysis to ensure that the actions are carried out as safely as possible. Both during the day and at night, the number of personnel to be deployed is determined by different factors. The available resources and capacity according to the policy plans, e.g. the zonal security plan or the federal police policy plan, is only one element of this. Account will also be taken of the estimated workload on the basis of traffic intensity and additional risk factors for positive tests such as the proximity of an event, the accident risk, the condition of the control locations, etc. During the weekend 250 federal police officers cooperated, 125 of the 190 zones participated. You can say: that is a lot, 125 out of 190, but I note that 65 zones did not consider it necessary to participate. We can only exert pressure. We can't make them do it. 125 participating zones were the highest number of the last 10 years, but apparently there are still 65 zones which apparently do not consider it important enough to carry out actions during such a weekend. I do not think that increasing resources and/or capacity would be the most appropriate solution. Police managers must consider for their own organisation which strategy can best contribute to increasing both the subjective and the objective chances of taking action. A reorientation of resources and capacity by organising more actions but with less crowding can already have an impact on the subjective chance of packing. For the local police forces, the Chiefs of Police and the Police Colleges decide on this, implementing their zonal security plan. One of the reasons why the number of checks this year has been so increased is because of a new blowing machine, in which the person concerned does not have to blow into the turd anymore, but can simply blow to the aircraft. In the past, the teat had to be changed at every check-up and now more checks can be carried out with the same men in 15 minutes. So it's not just about the deployment of more men. A next generation of devices will also be able to process the entire administrative handling once the device has read the identity card. There are therefore efficiency gains in this area too, and this can be achieved without increasing the number of policemen. The additional costs of the night checks are largely due to the additional allowances granted to staff. At night, defined from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., a staff member shall be entitled to an hourly night benefit of 35 per cent from 1/1850 per year. In view of the diversity of wage scales and the associated inconvenients, an exact estimate is difficult to give. It can generally be said that a night check between 24.75 and 34.40 % costs more staff compared to checks during the day. For weekend nights, this is 128 to 167 % compared to weekday checks. Now I come to the questions about the objectives of road safety policy. The quantitative targets are part of the Road Safety Framework Paper of May 2009, which was confirmed by the States-General of Road Safety of May 2011. It is stipulated that the integrated police should take a breath test every year for two drivers out of ten, which amounts to 1 200 000 drivers per year. The federal road police must meet 20% of these targets and thus test the alcohol content of 240 000 drivers per year. The goal has already been achieved for the sixth year in a row. That is the medium-term objective. The objective you are referring to, Mrs Dumery, is one in the long term. When I launched it, I talked about the year 2019. This is subject to a number of conditions, namely the availability of effective and sufficiently rapid means of control, which certainly includes samplers. There's only local police. There's a market survey going on for the federal police to buy it. There must be sufficient control both in terms of staffing capacity and in terms of financial resources to allow police officers to check at the right hours. The new States-General for Road Safety of 15 December 2015, in which all actors were represented, has not changed the long-term objective. That's not my decision. One of the objectives of the National Security Plan is to contribute to the achievement of the recommendations of the States-General. This is also addressed in the zonal safety plans. Currently, statistics on alcohol controls are generally collected and processed for bob campaigns. In addition to these campaigns, not all police zones have an understanding of the number of checks and their results. In order to measure the objective, it should be done throughout the year. One obstacle to the systematic view is that there should be a double administration. For some larger zones this means a huge additional workload. The one-off view whereby the data entered for the control are transferred directly into the statistical concept module can be helpful in this respect. In the past, however, a number of recommendations have been made, which could further increase the number of alcohol controls. Every stopped driver shall be subjected to a test whenever possible. The principle of collision is blowing must be applied consistently. The sampling and the fast amusements should also be applied to the federal police and actively deployed. New techniques must also be sought. As regards the qualitative objectives for the ongoing Bob Campaign, such objectives were first formulated. In the coming year we do not want to carry out any more but better controls. In doing so, all police zones and federal road police received an individual risk profile. That profile set out the times when most accidents were detected under the influence on their territory and when most drivers tested positively during an alcohol check in previous campaigns. The checks can be adapted to this, in particular to plan the actions at the hours indicated by the risk profile. Since this was only asked for for the first time, we will thoroughly evaluate the objective together with the other bob controls. Each zone has thus been given a risk profile in advance, indicating the risk spots and the risks associated with each territory. Now all we have to do is look at the extent to which this has been taken into account locally in the organisation of controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u43	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I have the impression that you take this problem very seriously. We must certainly try to do better in this area in the future. I would like to come back to the checks that are taking place at night. We have recently had a hearing with police judges and police commissioners and there was also talk that too few controls are being organised overnight. Police judge Stinckens felt that one night's checkout at 10 was too short. The fatal accidents often happen overnight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u44	Those were the subjective figures. The objective figures refer to 1 in 5. So that's twice as much already.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u45	According to figures from the BIVV, almost a quarter of the bob checks take place on Friday, especially between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. According to the Institute it is a good time, but it is also of the opinion that checks are better done at night. I assume that will be followed. I have one small comment, Minister. The hearing showed that one should be able to find a way to increase controls on drugs. There is the problem of the cost of the appliances to be used. Each zone has only a limited number. The area where I live is asking for more of such devices. It's a budgetary problem. We're also establishing a shift. Alcohol is a major problem in road accidents, but the drug problem is also on the rise exponentially.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the clear figures and the stated objectives. It is also very important that more is communicated for the subjective sense of opportunity. For example, if checks have been carried out in our area, the next day the social media will announce how many drivers were checked and how many too many had been drunk. The result is that when people go on the road at unusual hours, for example at night, they know that they have to pay attention to checks. It was also about priorities. We have recently had a hearing in the Infrastructure Committee on refugee offences. One of the causes of the crime is the lack of judgment at the time of drinking, which means fleeing the scene of an accident. They're making a bad decision. That is why police judges have asked for many more checks at night. If there are hit-and-run accidents, then there is indeed mostly alcohol in play.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u47	Mr President, Minister, shortly before the end of 2015, I asked you about identity fraud and the free Doc Stop service. In response to my question in committee, you indicated to me that strengthening the approach to identity fraud is one of your priorities for 2016. Indeed, identity fraud is a constant and growing problem throughout the world and Belgium is not spared by this phenomenon, which is very often an access to various criminal acts, even criminal ones. In order to combat this scourge, a federal task force called "Prevention and fight against identity fraud" has been meeting since 2015 with a view to establishing a genuine network of operational expertise between the competent federal authorities and the municipalities, a network based on the exchanges and problematic cases encountered. One of the objectives of this task force is to increase the awareness and awareness of municipalities about identity fraud and to encourage initiatives to better protect themselves against the phenomenon. Since identity data at the level of the National Register is mainly collected and updated by the municipalities, they must be particularly aware of the means of detecting identity fraud and the actions to be taken when confronted with a dubious, falsified or counterfeit travel or civil status document. At the time, you told me that this task force was to finalize, by the beginning of 2016, a circular to the municipalities and consular posts aimed at a coordinated approach to the prevention and fight against identity fraud at the federal and local levels. Mr Minister, has this task force finalized, as originally planned, a circular to the municipalities in order to combat identity fraud? If so, what does it contain? If not, when is it planned? Is an assessment of the situation following this circular planned? If so, do you have an agenda? Can you tell me if there are any other initiatives planned for a coordinated approach to preventing and combating identity fraud at the federal and local levels? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2015, the Task Force wished to involve the Unions of the Kingdom's cities and communes and certain communes on the content of the draft circular in order to take account of their comments and expectations regarding the prevention and fight against identity fraud. The circular is being finalized. It will be sent to the municipalities and consular posts in March of this year. This circular will be used as a guide when municipalities are confronted with fraud concerning a Belgian electronic identity card, a kid ID, a Belgian residence permit for a foreigner, a passport, a travel document or a civil status document. An evaluation of the circular will take place, in collaboration with the Unions of Kingdom Cities and Municipalities and the municipalities that participated in the December 2015 meeting in June or September 2016. Municipalities can be the first barrier to fraud. Therefore, the task force intends to make every effort to support and accompany them when hypothetical or proven cases of identity fraud are detected. To this end, various tools have been deployed to combat this phenomenon in a coordinated and integrated manner, including the National Special Point of Contact (SPOC) and the Federal Task Force "Prevention and fight against identity fraud", which will maintain permanent contacts to deal with the demands of the municipalities. Exchange groups and training with municipal SPOCs on the prevention and fight against identity fraud will be organized in the province before July and again in 2017. The aim will be to share knowledge and strengthen the respective expertise, taking into account, inter alia, the practical cases experienced by the communal SPOCs. In this way, certain administrative or technical procedures may be improved or put in place to counter this offence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u49	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive response and for the steps you have taken. The fight against identity fraud is a priority of this government. I know that you are making every effort to do this through this task force and evaluations. The association between the Unions of cities and municipalities, the municipalities, the government and this task force is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u50	Minister, I wanted to take stock of the situation with regard to the figures you sent me on December 2. I would have liked to have consolidated figures for 2015 on the number of foreign terror fighters from Syria, Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Afghanistan, taking into account the nomenclature you used on 2 December last - total number, persons returned to Belgium, number of dead persons, number of persons still present there, number of persons applying for departure, number of departures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u51	Mr Dallemagne, on the basis of the last consolidated list on 28 January 2016, there are 269 combatants in Syria or Iraq, 88 of whom are said to have died. This latter figure is an estimate and is therefore not 100% safe. This means there are 181 active fighters on site. We received information that 6 people would be on their way to join the fighters and 117 would have returned. We also know of 59 people who have tried to join Syria and Iraq but without success. For us, they are potentially dangerous people, because they wanted to contribute to jihad. So I think they didn't give up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u52	Minister, thank you for these answers. Compared to the figures you quoted on December 2, one is surprising. The number of people present in Belgium would be 117. You said there were 134 at the time. This would mean that 17 of them would no longer be in Belgium but would have returned to another country in Europe or elsewhere. I think it is important to have regular follow-up on this matter. You also communicated to me at the time 352 potential candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u53	The OCAM list consists of five categories. Categories 4 and 5 relate to people who are being radicalised and those who are preparing to leave. It's in the same order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u54	Don't you have any figures for the other countries of Somalia, Afghanistan, Libya?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u55	I'm going to check on these numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u56	Minister, my question is about setting up the local integrated security cells, which I called in my question the local task forces. You had given information about the ones that were already operational. I believe that in nine Brussels communes these CILs were already operational; in six communes they were under construction and in three communes they were not yet operational. What about today? Do you think this mechanism works well to track foreign terror fighters? What about the dynamic database you announced? Is it effective, operational, effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dallemagne. The numbers have not changed. They were recent. The dynamic database is ready and used by the federal police. For the time being, the federal police receive information from the various support services, mainly the OCAM. The bill was sent to the Council of State. He will then return to the government. I will then submit it to Parliament. Once this law is passed, the data can be entered into this database, which is already available from the various departments. Therefore, the database is available but data is currently being introduced by the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u58	Does this mean that all CIL players can access this database?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u59	Support services. Not the local level yet. The law must be adopted for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u60	I encourage you to do that. On the other hand, I am still surprised that two months later, three municipalities still do not have CILS. In memory, it was Saint-Josse, Forest and a third commune. I would like you to possibly take an initiative to ensure that all these municipalities have operational CILS as soon as possible and that these databases are effective as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u61	Minister, I come back to you as a follow-up to a written parliamentary question I asked in July 2015, a little over six months ago. I was asking you about the need for a 100 rescue centre in Walloon Brabant province. I also told you about the organizational difficulties caused by the absence of this rescue centre. Through my oral question, I want to testify to an experience I had a few weeks ago. A person who was the victim of a violent home invasion robbery, living in the municipality of Braine-l'Alleud, was sent back to the 100 of Leuven. The use of his mobile phone, his situation at the border between Braine-l-l-Alleud and the neighbouring town of Rhode-Saint-Genèse, which, I imagine, depends directly on Leuven, may explain this referral to Leuven. The call was activated by an antenna located in the Flemish Brabant. It's not too bad. But when the person was put in contact with Leuven, she was confronted with a operator who had small bilingual concerns. The service ran out of speed. If there was a police intervention, it was a little late. This is certainly related to this diversion to Leuven's 100 service and also to the misunderstanding between the two interlocutors. Last July, you stated in your written reply that the establishment of a 112 or 110 rescue centre in Walloon Brabant province would depend on an investigation then under way. This survey would reveal whether a centre was justified, whether a 101 and 112 or 100 centre were to co-exist in each province, whether they should merge or whether another form of co-operation would be necessary between the various relief services, ensuring at all times the most timely adequate assistance to the citizen. Can you provide the conclusions of this review, which was carried out more than six months ago? What about it? What is the suite to reserve for 100 service for the Walloon Brabant province? Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u62	Depending on the problem you describe, the problem of transferring the number to the wrong call centre is not the problem of Walloon Brabant, but that of all border areas between two provinces. That's why I started this pilot project to determine if this problem can be solved using a computer system. I expect the results for March of this year. Second, the study for the organization of centres 112, 101 and 100 took a little longer; not the study as such, but the market took a little time. This study is currently under way. I will receive the final report within a few weeks. I therefore invite you to show a little more patience. In the coming weeks, we will have the results. My intention, unless the study leads to other arguments, is to proceed to a merger of centres 112, 101 and 100 and to have a unique number 112 across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u63	Minister, if I understand correctly, you are first pointing out a problem that concerns all regions, for which a pilot project is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u64	This is the problem of the wrong direction of GSM calls by antennas. This is happening in every border region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u65	I understand that for this issue, there is currently a pilot project on which you will have results in March. It's obviously outside the problem of the 100.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u66	These are two different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u67	Where is the pilot project going?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u68	In the provinces of Namur and Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 8691 is postponed. Mrs Jadin, I give you the floor to Question No 8718 on informing citizens about nuclear accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u71	Mr President, this question falls because I have already asked it. She was attached to another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u72	Minister, I will be brief. By rereading my second question, I think I could have integrated it into the first and saved you time. Over the course of the questions, we forget the content of each other. But since she's dropped off and I'm staying, I'm gonna take a little of your time. Mr Minister, as you know, the PS Group has always welcomed the work of our military in the so-called "Homeland" temporary mission, given the exceptional situation of the level of threat in our country, which the public authorities have had to face. This support was, however, conditional on the existence of a clear legal framework, which was essential in particular for the proper conduct of the mission and the physical and legal security of the military themselves, and above all on the fact that the military was accompanied by the police in their patrols. However, the temporary use of military personnel in this context seems to be a long-term option, while the only long-term solution to deal with the threat level is to engage police officers. In this regard, we are still waiting for the €200 million pledged by the federal government, in particular to finance the police areas that are in dire need of it. The difficult situation faced in recent weeks by several military personnel in the framework of the Homeland mission at the Gare de l'Ouest metro station, on which all the clarity will have to be made, illustrates, if necessary, the need to clarify the framework of this temporary mission, in particular from a legal point of view, relations with the police and ad hoc training. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the following questions as a relay, in particular, of the concerns expressed by the military unions. Given that the Homeland mission seems to be a long-term mission in the absence of new federal means for police areas, does the government finally intend to clarify the rules of engagement of the military on our streets in order, in particular, to ensure the legal certainty and transparency of these interventions? Is consultation with military and police unions planned? Will the situation in recent weeks at the Western Railway Station speed up this necessary clarification, in particular in order to prevent the military from being put in such a difficult situation in the future when Minister Vandeput told me in February 2015 that "the military does not carry out police missions or patrols and merely carry out static surveillance missions"? What will be the follow-up to this incident in order to clarify it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u73	Fernandez Fernandez, on 15 January 2015, during a coordination meeting between the police and the Defence, the practical modalities of this "Homeland" mission were determined. As you know, static military surveillance is organized to relieve the work of police officers in certain areas to be monitored and only in the event of level 3 threat. During static military surveillance, military personnel are in contact with the public. An incident is therefore always likely to occur in front of their eyes. If an incident or problem occurs in front of the military, police officers are still likely to be called in. A military liaison officer is also present at the dispatch of the police area in which the military is supervising. As regards the continuation of the index you have mentioned, a file is available at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office concerning these facts. I'm waiting for the results of this investigation. However, at this stage, the rules of engagement for the military are fairly clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. There has been an incident at the Western Railway Station, but it is our responsibility that, in case of difficulty, the military is in a state of lack of information about the limitations of their mission. This kind of problem can only be solved by a framework. You're telling me that a meeting took place on January 15, and I'm going to investigate further. The situation on the ground is complicated for the military, and if you sent me back to your colleague, they are still under your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u75	They're not my responsibility! There is a protocol between the interior and the defence that stipulates under what conditions they can intervene. They remain under military control, but there is always a police officer who can intervene if something happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u76	You're saying there's a police officer under your responsibility. I can hear you well, but you mustn't get rid of any responsibility for what's going on. I do not criticise, I draw attention to the difficult conditions regarding the framework. Maybe there's information that doesn't go down well, and I can understand that it's not your fact, it's the Defence's, it's the military's. There were only minor incidents and no one wants to see more serious problems tomorrow, because of a lack of information or clarity about the mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u77	Mr Minister, in the Justice and Home Affairs Committees on 2 December last year, I asked you about the practicality of your circular "Foreign Terrorism Fighters", which puts the municipalities at the heart of the fight against terrorism. It should be recalled that this circular provides for a personalized analysis of the threat to each returnee or foreign terrorist fighter on the basis of information from the various services, gathered in a single database which would be fed by the police and intelligence services, as well as any other partner deemed competent. You then told me that this dynamic data bank would be ready "at the end of the year". At that time, the draft law on further counter-terrorism measures containing the legal framework for the database was still under consideration by the Privacy Commission. On 16 December, the Commission finally delivered its Opinion No 57, which is rather mixed and also interesting to read. It expresses its doubts about the need for the establishment of one or more new data banks and to create a new legal framework alongside what already exists, as the OCAM data bank and working files seem sufficient to achieve the objectives pursued, with adaptations aimed at allowing an optimal exchange of data between the various partners in the criminal, police and security chain. It also blames the text for making the database accessible - unlimitedly - to too many services, without distinction according to their competence and the purpose of the communication. The verification of the reliability and credibility of the data also raises questions. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know when the preliminary draft will be amended, submitted to the Council of Ministers and debated in Parliament? To what extent do you take into account the observations made by the Privacy Commission? What will be the department or administrative entity that will have operational responsibility for this integrated and common data bank? What will be the body responsible for monitoring the data thus compiled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u78	Minister, as part of the anti-terrorist measures, you announced for January the establishment of a dynamic database to ensure more effective monitoring of foreign terror fighters (FTF). I must note that, at the beginning of February, the mayors have still not received any information on the actual implementation of this database. Could you explain to me what justifies this one-month delay? What are the means actually deployed for its realization? What is the service in charge of this case? According to what timetable will it be carried out and made available to the mayors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, every effort is made to submit the preliminary draft as soon as possible to the Council of Ministers. Prior to this, the various points raised by the Privacy Commission and the Council of State, which will shortly give its opinion, should be answered. All the comments are analysed with great attention in order to give appropriate follow-up. The intention is to include all of the comments made by both councils in the bill. What is the department or entity that will be responsible for it? To answer this question, I must first recall that the preliminary draft does not concern only the dynamic data bank dealing with FTF data. Indeed, the preliminary draft provides a legal basis for developing common databases where it is essential that different services share data in order to effectively combat terrorism or extremism that can lead to terrorism. It soon became apparent that the FTF phenomenon did not allow us to react quickly if we were confronted in the future with new phenomena linked to terrorism which can very quickly evolve and take many forms. It is therefore for each common data bank, i.e. on a case-by-case basis, that the department or entity with operational responsibility will be designated. The preliminary draft will take into account both the obligation to designate the operational manager and his/her own designation, which is made specifically for each common data bank. Which body will it be responsible for data control? In its opinion, the Privacy Commission sets out the difficulty of coordination. The Commission, the P Committee, the R Committee and the Police Information Review Body (PIO) must therefore jointly carry out the monitoring. The Commission expresses its preference for monitoring by the R Committee and the OIPC. As with the other points, the preliminary draft will take account of the Committee's opinion on the control of the common data banks. As far as the delay is concerned, in order to start working with the dynamic database containing personal data, its existence must be provided for by law. A bill had therefore been drafted to that end. It was submitted to the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. The committee has already delivered its opinion on the matter. The Council of State is expected very soon. The draft will then be reviewed in the light of the opinions given and will continue its legislative process. The software of the data bank therefore exists. The product is there, it is just missing the legislative framework under development. What are the actual means of implementation? As explained above, it is not the technical realization of the database that is the reason for the delay but the steps to be taken to ensure that the necessary law is passed. Every effort is made to ensure that this is the case as soon as possible. The Ministers of the Interior and Justice are in charge of this matter, which is also common to the OCAM, the intelligence services and the police services. With regard to the calendar, the database will be made available to police, intelligence, OCAM and other services that have data to register in order to obtain a complete picture for each FTF. The mayors may receive the information necessary for the exercise of their powers, both as an administrative police and in the field of prevention. Without waiting for the dynamic database, instructions to this effect have already been issued through a joint circular issued by my colleague the Minister of Justice and myself. The database is therefore already used by the police. In the meantime, before this law comes into force, the support services provide the data to the federal police who introduce this information into the database. For the time being, the bill has fallen behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u80	Minister, technical aspects will be interesting to consider once this bill comes into force, in particular to understand what you call the case-by-case designation of the entity responsible for being the managing operator. With regard to the access of mayors to the database, did you refer to last summer's circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u81	Yes. This circular only gives the mayors access to some of the information contained in the database.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u82	Minister, according to reports in the media, the threat of terrorism would cause more and more security firms to be asked to systematically search people. This question would also be asked by local authorities. However, the search by the security company is prohibited. Inspectors of the FPS Home Office have already received some complaints about such searches. According to the press reports, you would consider whether the surveillance law could be relaxed in times of crisis. How many complaints have been filed? Which local authorities are asking private security firms to search? For what reasons are you considering relaxing the Surveillance Act? How do you think that, in times of crisis, debt securities can be defined if the law is relaxed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u83	In 2015, my administration received seven specific complaints about the exercise of searches by security agents. Neither the FPS Home Office nor myself have received official requests from local authorities regarding visitor control by private surveillance companies. I will answer your third and fourth questions with one answer. The evaluation of the Private Security Act showed that there is a reasonable and responsible need to give security officers more or more powers in some circumstances. That is why we propose that, in addition to the current linear powers available to each surveillance officer in all circumstances, it should be granted situational powers. These should allow security officers to contribute to stricter security rules in certain circumstances. These include temporary situations, such as in the case of a scaled-up threat to level 3, and permanent situations, for example in the monitoring of critical infrastructure such as nuclear power plants. I will not fail to explain this in detail when the draft law on this subject is discussed in Parliament. The evaluation of the law has been made. We are currently preparing a project with which I will come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You were rather quick in your answer to my third and fourth questions, particularly the circumstances in which one could search. I remain convinced that the possibility of allowing private security firms to search their premises should be very closely monitored. A legislative proposal in this respect must be well defined in both duration, place and circumstances. We look forward to your proposals. It is still too early to take a stand. I understand the circumstances surrounding threat level 3 or critical infrastructure. We'll evaluate the other circumstances later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u85	Minister, every year, in my region, the carnival processions gather large crowds, and are organized in many communes in my region, including villages, and will therefore take place from tomorrow. Under the current level of threat, level 3, the processions are likely to take place in an exceptional security environment and preparations for this are yet to be completed. To prepare spectators and participants for this event, can you tell us what special security measures have been taken to secure the processions in my area, including Malmédy and Dalhain? What about possible prohibitions: the press echoes a ban on wearing masks, fake weapons, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u86	Dear colleague, with regard to the security measures taken during the carnivals, a threat assessment has been carried out by the OCAM and has been set at 3. This is the case for all the demonstrations where many people gather. The Crisis Centre asked the police services to define their security arrangements and the enhanced police presence on the basis of a risk analysis based on the elements provided by OCAM and the information gathered at the local level. I do not have the information on the specific measures taken for each carnival you cite. We have asked at the local level to carry out this risk analysis. If there is a lack of capacity in a city, we can strengthen the system. With regard to the prohibition of the wearing of masks or fake weapons, it falls within the competence of each mayor. If there's a ban, it's because the mayor decided it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u87	Mr President, Minister, we have been questioned by actors on the ground about the recent announcement to recruit the Head of Division Ecofin to the Charleroi PJ. When reading the candidate profile, the conditions of access do not mention any specialized knowledge of economic and financial matters. Only reference is made to the possession of the patent. This is an issue for us because the function requires dealing with judges specializing in economic and financial matters, experts and curators. In particular, the function description indicates that the person will be responsible for: - give practical instructions or missions to employees; - ensure regular monitoring of ongoing investigations within its management and the maintenance of tools to verify their evolution.; - establish a priority classification of the judicial files entrusted to its management. - as a technical expert: analyse dossiers from a technical point of view; formulate avenues for technical solutions; identify obstacles and propose alternatives. Minister, we would like clarification on this recruitment to the Charleroi PJ and on recruitment for specialized functions in a more general way. What are the technical requirements for economic and financial crime for an Ecofin Chief of Division? How is this knowledge assessed? What are the requirements in terms of degrees to enter this function? In general, how are the technical knowledge required to carry out specialized police missions assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u88	Mrs Matz, your first and third questions concern the skills and diplomas of the candidates. The functional profiles for the FJP Heads of Service are the result of work to harmonize profiles so that they are, with equivalent function, similar from one unit to another. For this reason, employment publications for the position of Head of Service for these entities are similar. The close similarities between the profiles of the two recently published functions can therefore be seen, in particular the position of Head of Service of the Ecofin Division and that of the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption of the Central Directorate for the Fight against Serious and Organised Crime. Contrary to your assertion, it does not seem to me that the function of Head of Service of the Ecofin Division of a PJF requires contacts with financial experts or curators. According to the Directorate of the Judicial Police, these contacts are more evident from the duties of the Chief of Investigation, provided that his case requires such contacts. The function of Head of Service is a managerial and managerial function which, therefore, does not require specific technical expertise in the field applied for (here, the Ecofin domain). There is also no requirement for a specific diploma, so the post is, in the present case, reserved for officer staff of the rank of divisional commissioner, a rank which demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform a leadership and supervisory role within the police. Let me turn to your second question. As you will certainly have read in the publication of the job offer, the selection will be made on the basis of a selection board, the terms of which will be determined later by the Director General of the Judicial Police. Note that trade union organisations are invited to attend the selection. Finally, your last question is: the supervisory function that does not require specific technical knowledge. Therefore, no evaluation is feasible. In general, recruitment is based on an interview with a selection board, which examines the concordance between the function profile and the candidate's abilities. As soon as a candidate is assigned to a position within the judicial pillar, only the follow-up of judicial functional training is necessary. Upon obtaining the certificate for the successful completion of this training, which is subject to a written evaluation, the candidate is expected to have the technical knowledge required to carry out his or her specialized judicial police duties. In the event of a failure in this training, the candidate who does not have the required skills and knowledge may be assigned to the judicial pillar cancelled and, therefore, re-enter the federal police service. With respect to the Charleroi FJP, we have experienced a situation in which a staff member who twice failed this judicial training has been cancelled and returned to the Federal Police Reserve. Like any organization, the system of assessment of collaborators is also applied in accordance with the modalities determined by the police status.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer, which leaves me puzzled. You say that we need a chief of investigation but that he must not have specific skills in the field for which he is recruited. What about his qualifications? If he actually needs management qualities which are declable in any direction, it seems to me that in a field as specialized and pointed as this one, specialization in financial and economic matters would at least be necessary to be able to organize the work. It is not at all a question of questioning the selection board and its objectivity. It's really the recruitment notice that's calling me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u90	Minister, last week you met your fellow Members in The Hague and it was decided to set up the European Counter Terrorism Centre. What is the contribution Belgium is going to make? What role will that centre play? What contribution will we make to this centre in the fight against terrorism which this government has made a priority of? What concrete results do you expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u91	Mr President, Minister, since the Charlie Hebdo attacks and the Paris attacks last November, several voices have denounced shortcomings in the intelligence system in terms of European cooperation. The Director of Europol announced the opening in January of a counter-terrorism centre in The Hague. According to him, the aim of the centre is to "provide the European political world with the platform it needs to share information more quickly and hit terrorist groups", with the aim of creating more regular working meetings between states. In the above-mentioned objectives, the role of the centre is "to allow for better monitoring of the activities of the Islamic State and other groups on the Internet and social networks, in particular their propaganda and recruitment methods". Mr Minister, in a more concrete way, what are the tasks of this European centre? How can it help States in the fight against terrorism? In your opinion, what missions should they return to the centre and how will Belgium cooperate? Were these subjects discussed at the recent Franco-Belgian summit? At this summit, intentions were expressed. Is it possible that you will reveal to us the concrete measures without betraying the strategies that you have drawn up with France? We can rejoice at the establishment of this centre. But the great difficulty is that some States do not provide their information. Europol has repeatedly pointed out that this should work with everyone's agreement. It would be interesting if you could tell us to what extent the European States feel they are concerned about this centre. This is a fundamental issue. If the intelligence had operated optimally during the various attacks or attempted attacks, we could have avoided some of them. I am not questioning anyone, except the fact that the system is not working and that it is difficult for States to make arrangements if they do not have the information of their neighbouring colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u92	I will answer your questions first, Mr Yüksel. What contribution will our country make? I must stress that the centre as such is not new to Europol. This is a regrouping of services and bringing existing services together at Europol. As such, the provision of information remains crucial. Belgium is among the top three countries that provide the most information. I also agree with your remarks on this, Mrs Matz. Currently, 85% of information on foreign fighters, among others, is supplied to Europol by five countries. France has recently joined. Belgium is there too. To what extent will the intelligence services share information? In the EU, cooperation between intelligence services is particularly sensitive. It is therefore awaiting the extent to which the intelligence services will cooperate with Europol. Europol is trying to create a climate of trust with the intelligence services, including through the provision of secure information exchange platforms. As such, depending on the specific competences of each EU Member State, the Centre will mainly cooperate with the classical law enforcement services. What is specific about the centre and what could be an incentive for more countries to participate and share information is that the Europol centre will not only centralise the data, but also have analysts at its disposal to analyse the data. This is interesting for each Member State, because each Member State has only part of the information. If more information is concentrated and analysed at Europol, it may be useful for all participating countries. I therefore hope that these countries will encourage a more systematic exchange of data. Which other Member States made concrete commitments? Almost all EU Member States have given their support to the joint decision of the Interior and Justice Ministers of 20 November 2015. Certain countries, such as France, Germany and Austria, have already made a commitment to make specialised liaison officers available to the centre. Cooperation with police forces is also foreseen. It is indeed intended that Europol will continue to work with the services of third countries within the framework of the Centre. It is therefore a centre at Europol and is provided for in cooperation with the police forces. Mrs. Matz, I'm answering you about the missions of this centre. On the occasion of the JHA Council on 20 November 2015, Ministers called for the launch of the European Counter-Terrorism Centre in January. On 25 January, Europol announced that it was operational. Before addressing its specific tasks, I would like to make it clear that this is not a new centre but a coherent merger of Europol's various activities. The four missions of this centre will be: - to collect information and intelligence relating to the fight against terrorism for the purposes of the Member States and third countries with which Europol is bound by a cooperation agreement; - to provide operational support, e.g. mobile offices, to play a coordinating role and to make its expertise available to Member States – expertise meaning real-time support of investigations, identification of new contextual information on the basis of elements provided and analysis of suspicious money flows; - to combat the use of social media for radicalisation purposes; - to provide strategic support to decision-makers. I take this opportunity to express my firm conviction that Europol must be a strong agency. It is imperative to deepen and accelerate the sharing of information with the Commission. Belgium is still one of the best pupils in the European class and is firmly on the podium of the Member States transmitting the most relevant information to Europol. The Belgian police also provided a great deal of information after the attacks in Paris. We cannot force the other Member States, but as I said, the analytical services offered are useful for the Member States and I hope that they will provide more information. During the Franco-Belgian Summit, France and Belgium reiterated their unwavering support for Europol and its establishment. Again, we confirmed that we provide as much data as possible for these Europol databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The only new thing is that the data will be analysed by that Europol centre. Hopefully, more EU Member States will recognise the importance of Europol and actively cooperate in it. If we cannot put this cooperation on the spot in these times, then we will never be able to put it on the spot, Minister. The situation for the police and security services is currently at the highest level. I believe that the five countries that exchange information on foreign fighters are Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u94	And Denmark.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u95	And Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u96	Minister, it is still difficult to understand why some states do not provide the information at their disposal. Perhaps it is due to the fact that the person who has the information has the power. That would call for a great question of sovereignty that States would not want to see evaporated by divulging what they know. But this remains incomprehensible when the information is transmitted to us. It is already good that France took the step, since we know that there were coucacs during the attacks in Paris. Maybe with liaison officers, they'll have to give information. I hope so because we must not talk about a European centre. If five States cooperate effectively in the exchange of information, as we know here in Belgium, this is a key issue in the fight against terrorism. I'm still on the centre's third social media mission. I didn't understand what role they're going to play. Is it a watch and alert role?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u97	Both! There is also a need to provide information to businesses. At European level, we had a meeting with large companies active in the Internet. There are two circumstances in which it is justified not to share information: if the sources are in danger and if a judicial investigation is under way. If the usefulness of these analyses is proven, I hope that other Member States will be added. At the Council of Ministers of the Interior, everyone confirms that it is useful. Everyone around the table says it's important that that data is shared and then one goes home and turns out that it doesn't happen. I can only establish that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u98	Minister, thank you for that clarification. You know that the transfer of information is essential, but we also want a more active Internet policy in terms of counter-propaganda. We know that it is difficult to define the criteria for withdrawing content, but propaganda is often very simple to identify. Of course, accounts should be kept open to facilitate investigations. In any case, I hope that this centre will participate vigorously in the fight against terrorism with the support of other European States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u99	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Delannois, No 8236. Mr Clarinval and Mr No 8940. Mr Ducarme's 8945 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u100	Minister, the problem is not new: fines for foreign travellers do not result in anything because their addresses are false or unknown. The dishonest persons indicate a false address and train attendants are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they have no right to demand papers or to carry out other investigations. In the case of SNCB, the controllers are even powerless against Belgian residents who would distort their identity. The press echoed this problem last week. Are you aware of this problem? If so, have you ever made contact with the Minister of Mobility, Mrs Galant? And how do you intend to go against this phenomenon of false identity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u101	Mrs Jadin, the agents of Securail, the SNCB security service, are competent to enforce the public transport regulations. In this context, they can carry out identity checks and notify the police when they suspect an individual to appear under a false identity. They may also detain the person in question pending the arrival of the police services. The powers of Securail are defined in the Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security. I should like to point out that Securail is not under my authority but that its operation is controlled by my administration. The police services obviously have their expertise in this area. As far as the regulation of the competences of train attendants and other SNCB controllers is concerned, this is not within my competence. I would refer you to Mrs Galant for that purpose. I confirm that Securail can carry out an identity check, call the police and arrest the person pending police intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u102	Minister, in 2015, the Home SPF reportedly received 321 complaints from citizens against security and guard officers, an increase of 15% over 2014. There are 60% of the actions reported to the Home SPF that would come from the caretaker sector. Citizens would mainly report physical or verbal violence, as well as inappropriate and/or systematic checks and searches, which would not allow for the authorization of the agents in question. It should also be noted that some professionals have themselves filed complaints with the administration, in particular for unfair competition, or for the assignment by their head of missions for which they are not authorized. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Can you tell me the proportion of caretakers who have to date been pinned by your services for unfair competition? Do you have further information on the form of this competition, as well as the procedure for this type of infringement? Do you think that the checks carried out by your services to combat these problems are sufficient to date? If not, are additional measures currently under consideration? With regard to the number of complaints lodged by citizens, do you have any figures on the number of complaints ultimately resulting in the misconduct of the guarding officer in question or of his or her person in charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u103	Mrs Jadin, the repression of unfair competition between guarding companies is not within my competence. Nevertheless, several provisions were added in 2014 to the law on private security, in particular with a view to preventing private security companies from accumulating tax or social debts and failing to comply with their social obligations. The main provisions were annulled by the Constitutional Court in 2015 as part of the review of the Private Security Act and, in the light of the remarks of the Constitutional Court, I intend to provide rules to combat unfair competition. The press reported on the increase in complaints about private security companies. The reason for this may be that more and more complaints are coming to the Directorate of Private Security Control, in particular through an increase in the number of checks. I would also point out that an unknown number of complaints against guarding agents reach the clients of a guarding company or a guarding company without the authorities being aware. In addition, the local police also receive a fairly large number of complaints, especially when there has also been a reference to the facts which constitute an offence and the complainants believe that they are victims of it. For example, complaints of assault and discrimination on the part of guarding officers in the exit community mostly reach the police services where they are dealt with through the criminal circuit. The figures available to the Inland FPS are therefore partial. They do not fully reflect reality. On the other hand, violations of the law in respect of private security include not only those initiated by complaints but also the findings of police officers or internal FPS monitors. For 2015, 670 inspections were carried out by the inspectors of the Internal FPS Control Directorate in charge of monitoring the private security sector. Of all these controls, 73 were in response to a complaint. As a result, not all complaints were found to be an offence. A total of 102 minutes were issued following a complaint. Of the 321 complaints filed in 2015, 135 related to activities likely to be unauthorized or unauthorized (35% guarding and 59% security). In 54% of the cases, the checks carried out on these complaints did reveal that they were unauthorized and unauthorized activities. Again, 21% for guarding, 76% for security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u104	I thank the Minister for these clarifications and I will read all this information calmly. I am interested in everything related to guarding services, particularly for my region, where there is still a problem with the accreditation of guarding companies with German skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u105	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 8981 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u106	Mr.President, Minister, on January 14, 2016, during operations to restore production cells, iodine 131 contamination occurred at the IRE laboratory in Fleurus. This event appears to be due to a failure of one of the gaskets ensuring sealing between the cells. Iodine 131 was released via the chimney. Several operators were present at that time and had to be supported. It appears that an operator has a level of contamination requiring follow-up. Can you confirm that the effects of this release on the population, workers and the environment are limited? Can you tell us what steps have been taken to ensure that this does not happen again? I am, in fact, particularly challenged by non-communication about what is happening at the IRE. I would therefore like to see full clarity on this matter. Why was an incident on January 14 not made public until January 28? Minister, we have already discussed the low level of responsiveness of the NWCA in this area. We even agreed that it would be good if the deadline for communication did not exceed two to three days, even if things were updated at a later stage. In this case, the AFCN defends itself by pointing to the late reporting of the facts by the IRE. But, according to the latter, he immediately notified the AFCN. The two concerned therefore reject the ball. In doing so, I want you to clarify things. Can you tell us when the IRE informed AFCN of this January 14th event? Can you tell us when the IRE conducted an INES analysis of the event that took place on January 14th? Can you tell us the classification level proposed by the IRE after analyzing this event and knowing the similar previous events that had already taken place on the site? When were the affected communes of Fleurus and Farciennes notified of these incidents and of the fact that the January 14 incident had been classified as INES 1? It appears that this January 14 incident follows a series of similar incidents that took place at the end of 2015, but for which no information was disseminated. The recurrence of these incidents has cause for concern. Is that to say that the IRE was negligent and continued to operate while being aware that joints were defective? Has the AFCN been notified of these previous incidents? Why did the IRE keep silent on these incidents? Should we recall that on Friday, April 10, 2015, a leak loss had already occurred on a circuit allowing the capture of rare radioisotope production gases in an IRE laboratory? The occurrence also resulted in a rare gas release (radioxenon) exceeding the authorized daily limit. I would like you to tell us, in an exhaustive way, exactly what incidents (classified and unclassified) have occurred recently in the IRE?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u107	Mr Nollet, the operator of the IRE contaminated at the event of 14 January, received a dose corresponding to a minimal fraction of the annual limit of 20 millisieverts per year for occupationally exposed workers. The amount of iodine 131 released from the IRE stack was 400 kilobecquerels. The weekly release limit set in its operating authorization is 2.9 gigabecquerels, or 2.9 million kilobecquerels. On 14 January, the IRE therefore rejected 0.014% of its weekly limit. As mentioned by AFCN in a press release published on its website, this event had no significant impact on workers, the population or the environment on the basis of the above-mentioned elements. The IRE identified the cause of the incident: the defect of a joint. The operator has replaced the defective seal, checked all joints of the same type used in its facilities or in stock, and will strengthen its process of quality control and maintenance of safety-related equipment. The IRE has also increased the number of radioactivity measuring equipment in its facilities, so as to detect directly any radioactive leakage, however small it may be. With regard to event reporting, AFCN and Bel V have clear, identical expectations for all Class 1 facilities of which IRE is a member. Reporting modalities vary depending on the potential significance of the event. In this case, from the point of view of safety and radiation protection, the significance of the event is almost zero. As a result, the event did not meet the criteria for immediate reporting or within one business day after the occurrence of the event. That is why the event was not necessarily to be declared. However, the IRE mentioned this on a voluntary basis in Bel V during the next check which took place on 21 January. The organization then requested an INES analysis which was transmitted to it on January 25. The IRE proposed a zero level. In view of the repetition of events resulting from malfunctions of safety-related equipment, Bel V considered that the level should be increased to 1. He then communicated his analysis to AFCN on 26 January. The following day, the Commission confirmed this level and informed the operator. Two days later, AFCN issued a statement on its website. It did not hide anything from this event and communicated transparently once the INES study had been completed, i.e. when it had all the elements necessary for the validation of its evaluation. Similar events at the IRE have all been adequately monitored. None were classified at level 1 or above on the INES scale and therefore did not require active communication from the AFCN. The IRE did not work with failed joints. They were in good condition, but at some point they had a defect due to the chemical and radiological environment. The origin of the problem could not be clearly identified until after the January 14 event. The above-mentioned measures were then taken. As for communication with the municipality, there is no regulatory requirement for the IRE to inform the municipal authorities of such an event. On the other hand, the mayor was informed of this at the time the INES level was disclosed. Finally, with regard to the list of events that have recently occurred at the IRE, we refer you to the AFCN website, on which are listed all the events that must be made known to the public, namely those that are classified at level 1 or higher on the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u108	Minister, I cannot agree with you. In your reply, you say that the IRE has communicated on a voluntary basis. I have the proof here that this is not the case; it is an internal e-mail to the Federal Agency which shows that it was Bel V who asked IRE to carry out this INES analysis. Let's move on to the second element that you bring in your answer. The IRE considers that the event can be classified at level 0. The IRE does not wish to communicate that there are problems. However, I would like to point out that this problem of 14 January is a result of other similar problems in December. Bel V considers, and the Agency follows, that the severity, in repetition, is such that the event must be classified at Level 1. Minister, I would like to pay attention to the following situation. A few ten years ago, there have already been many problems on the Fleurus site. It's not a nuclear power plant. It is a production site where radioactivity is also used. The problems were the same at the starting point. They said it wasn't a big deal. We didn't talk about it, we minimized it, we tried not to classify it. External interventions were required. To say today, in your answer, that it was on a voluntary basis that the IRE declared the incident, whereas it was Bel V who forced it, it was not correct. I can give you the e-mail. For this reason, it was not on January 14, but on January 21, that we began to think about the classification. Then we tried to propose a classification at level 0. But, fortunately, Bel V did not give up and maintained the ranking at level 1. It is through these actions that the facts have become clearer and more transparent. Publication is not required for level 0 and lower levels. But when, in the Federal Agency press release, it is said that there was a succession of events in December, and when we go to the Federal Agency site, we see that the last event published in April, we think there is a problem of transparency, of communication. Waiting 14 days when there was an incident on a site like Fleurus, I'm sorry, it's not an acceptable situation! On the basis of your answer and the information I have, late communication is the fault of the IRE, not of the Agency. I therefore ask you to do the same thing as you did at the time with regard to the Agency. I suggest that you clearly ask the IRE to report the facts immediately to Bel V and the Federal Agency. Leave it to level 0. It is not acceptable that Bel V should inform the IRE of the need to communicate this type of event. This is not the case, especially when you are told that the IRE has done so on a voluntary basis!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u109	Minister, the staff who collect emergency calls 101 at the Hainaut Information and Communications Centre (HIC Hainaut) in Mons, again fired the alarm bell last week or the week before. The lack of staff and the impossibility of responding to all emergency calls are again at the heart of the demands. This was also reported to the governor of the province of Hainaut, who had to contact the interior services. The current team, consisting of 39 full-time equivalents, is not able to answer all calls. In a province with a population of 1,300,000, it would ideally take 63 people to respond to an average of 500,000 calls per year. Today, while emergency operators are supposed to pick up in 15 seconds, they sometimes take 4 minutes to do so. One can imagine the consequences that this could have for a victim waiting to be rescued in an emergency. In your policy note, however, you seem to be aware of the situation. It states that "the organization of fire services and the police organization have changed enormously over the last ten years and that this has influenced the vision of urgent appeals. In this way, the government agreement plans to continue to invest in the handling of urgent appeals." Minister, are there any investments planned for CIC 101 in Mons? If so, which ones? Do you have any additional recruitment proposals for the call centre? In general, what are the options envisaged so that every citizen of this country, without exception, receives a reply for each appeal addressed to 101?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u110	Mr President, let me begin by thanking my colleague very much, without whom I could not have done so. You were puzzled because it was Mons and Hainaut, but it's the same thing. It is the entire province of Hainaut that is concerned with a critical function. Call 101 is a critical task and it is a matter of the security of all citizens. The numbers were recalled. In today's organic picture, we see that this is not a budget problem. 63 full-time equivalents would be required. There is a ventilation between neutral call-takers (52) and police call-takers (11). Of these 63, as of December 2015, 41.3 are actually present. Worse, when screening in March 2016, considering departures, etc. – I have all the details but will not read it here – there will be only 39.6. What does that mean? By 12 hours, the number of people varies between 3 and 7, while by 12 hours, they should be much more numerous. But the issue is not just a question of people, I said, but also a question of missions. Clearly, the number of abandoned calls, which could not be taken between 2014 and 2015, has increased fourfold. I know your services keep this up to date. How many calls have been abandoned and to which, following calls from the population, the 101 could not respond due to lack of capacity? Why are we in a situation like this? Clearly, the recruitment aspect is a major problem. Minister, I really wanted to come with leads and proposals. You know that in Hainaut province, unemployment is high. These are certainly different levels of power between the federal state and the Forem, but would it not be possible to establish a partnership between the Internal FPS and the Forem in order to be able to quickly bring young or old people to the specific training of neutral call-takers, a training of a few months, and thus to be able to lead to rapid recruitment to respond to these critical missions? That's an interesting lead. You're going to tell me that there's a breakdown of the 20% for the police and 80% of neutral call-takers. At the same time, we could open another lead. Given the lack of police areas in Hainaut, it would be possible to have more call-takers than the famous 80%, obviously keeping the hierarchy and functional responsibility at the police level. I think it's a lead that might be interesting. I also know that there is a meeting of the basic consultation committee that has just been convened on 15 February at 10 a.m. These proposals could be analysed, since it is the same consultation committee that will have to work hard to find solutions. I really appeal to you, Minister, to your support. For our part, we can come with proposals and go-between if necessary, so that these recruitments and trainings can intervene in order to meet one and the same objective: the mission to all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u111	Colleagues, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are now talking about SICAT, which is the unit resulting from the merger between the former CICs and the CIA when the federal police are optimized. To answer your question, I would like to point out that it has not been expected that a grunt movement will occur to act, since the recruitment of six call-takers and one administrative assistant is planned again this year. Consultation of existing recruitment reserves is ongoing. Jobs are also being opened in internal mobility, at the Federal Police, to increase the number of police officers in this SICAT. If these jobs find takers, some of these additional capacities could attend the call-taking and thus reduce the burden of the current call-takers. The coordinating director of SICAT 101 Hainaut has taken two initiatives to optimize its operation: by ensuring a better distribution of the capacity committed over the 24 hours of the day and the week and thus to contribute the committed capacity to the actual needs; by analysing the possibility of increasing the versatility between CIC call-takers and police dispatching. Investing in emergency call centres means, in practice, ensuring that all elements that make it possible to process urgent appeals receive attention. This implies that adjustments should be made where necessary. This is as valid for staff investment as it is for technical procedures. As far as staff is concerned, I have already indicated that six call-takers and one administrative assistant will be hired. But investing in staff also means examining whether, on some aspects, efficiency gains can be achieved by taking into account, of course, the specific requirements of the operational functioning of security services. Call-taking is an essential basis for the operational functioning of SICAT, an intelligence core within the police function, guided by information. Budget restrictions in previous years have had an impact on these deficits as it has not been possible to open up all the vacant jobs in this SICAT or in the others. However, we are currently undertaking a catch-up operation to address the shortage of staff as quickly and as quickly as possible. Based on the call statistics of recent years, and taking into account the quality parameters, 95% of the calls taken within five seconds, the capacity calculations performed make it possible to estimate that 63 call-takers are required, including 52 civilians and 11 police officers. I do not think that we should now question the calculation model. First of all, we must make the necessary efforts to complete as much as possible the framework that has been defined. We can then check whether adjustments are necessary. Now, Mrs. Fonck, I'm taking the suggestions and we'll see how we can implement them. A study is currently under way. On the basis of the results, I will take a decision on the future collaboration between the 112 and 100 emergency call centres and the 101 centre. I must therefore ask you to wait a little longer for this study. My conviction is that we really need to merge these two call centres and have a single call number, 112, for all incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u112	Minister, you confirm the operational need to have 63 people, while for the time being there are 39. You are announcing the upcoming recruitment of six call-takers and one administrative. There will still be a staff shortage. Do we have to understand that you are committed to filling it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u113	We recruit externally and internally to the police to arrive at the necessary number of units.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u114	So the budget is for 63 people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u116	Minister, this is indeed not a problem of budget, but of recruitment capacity. You're announcing six call-takers and an administrative. I'm told that the decision was made by five call-takers and two administrative officers. We don't need administrative. The priority is call-takers to respond to people. I would like to tell you that on March 1st, two more experienced people leave for the province of Walloon Brabant. Bringing new recruits in is a first step. Is that enough? No. We are not going to reach 63 overnight, I am obviously aware of that. But we must be able to find innovative and effective solutions. I did propose a recruitment in partnership with Forem. Thank you for your interest. In addition, it may be interesting, in terms of training, to have vocational training with an on-the-spot trainer at the call centre level. That would save time. Perhaps a final lead, Minister, would be a better mobility of staff. In this case, it may be interesting to have mobility at the public sector level, not only at the level of relief service 101 between the different provinces but also within the administration itself. Some people might be interested in becoming call-takers. I am really calling for concrete solutions to be examined so that they can be quickly operational. All the boring Hs would be grateful if you could handle these emergency calls. It is obviously the responsibility of the State, if an accident occurs when an appeal has been abandoned due to lack of existing staff, even though the operational framework is now largely incomplete. Mr President, thank you for the flexibility of the committee's organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u117	Minister, I have a practical question. There are still a number of questions on the agenda. Until when do you have time to answer them? I just want to prevent some Members from being disappointed because we do not have the time to get their questions answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u118	Mr President, we agreed that I would stay until 6 p.m. I do not know how many of the questioners are still in the Chamber. Mr. Nollet has a lot of questions. Out of politeness, I used to answer all the questions of the members present, but perhaps there are still too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u119	For questions to item 39 on the agenda, all the authors are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u120	Mr President, I cannot stay longer than 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u121	Mr Top, you can't stay longer than 6:00 p.m. It's now 5:45. There is little chance that seven more questions will be answered before 18:00. So are you staying, or are you leaving?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u122	Mr President, (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u123	We'll do our best. Everyone will probably do their best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u124	Mr.President, Minister, there was another incident in Tihange 2 on Sunday, January 24. Could you give us the origin and tell us the extent of the consequences? Could you also tell us the lessons learned from this new incident? What would have happened if an employee had passed through that area at the time of the steam leak? Do you consider, like the operator, that this incident is commonplace and that there is no reason to worry about the multiplication of these incidents in a power plant with thousands of cracks? In addition, the village of Tihange was the victim of a severe flood during the same weekend. Where is the creek where the drama was played in relation to the power station? More broadly, could you tell us what is happening to the standards and measurement of these "flood" standards for the Tihange power plant? Do you consider that any future risk of flooding of the plant is totally to be excluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u125	Mr. Nollet, the origin currently identified by the operator is a one-off leak in a cooling water system due to a local evolution of a corrosion point in a weld. A reduction in charges has been initiated in order to allow the installation of a sealing collar pending a definitive repair of this leak. The overall loss of load lasted six hours. An event report is planned. It will conduct the evaluation and draw the necessary lessons. This report will be communicated to the security authority. This is a leak of water and not steam. An officer passing through saw the leak and reported it. Immediate action has been taken. The leak took place in the engine room outside the nuclear zone. There was no impact on safety circuits. Floods at the Tihange site are potentially of two types. There are external floods due to floods of the Meuse and internal floods due to exceptional rains. The BEST resistance test project aims to protect the Tihange plant from external flooding by two layers of protection: the protective wall surrounding the site and then mobile equipment such as pumps and generators. These two levels of protection are fully operational and protect the plant from external flooding during a ten thousand-year return period. Protection against internal flooding, i.e. flooding due to the accumulation of heavy rains on the site, is under construction. For this, Electrabel began work on the diversion of sewers, communal pertuis and streams crossing the site of the Tihange nuclear power plant. It is the communal pertuis located to the west of the power plant and the Poyoux-Sarts Creek located to the southeast of the power plant. The objective of these deviations is to prevent water from heavy rains on the hills around the site from entering the plant. This work is expected to be finalized in early 2016. They will protect the plant from internal flooding for a period of ten thousand years. The wild man's stream that overflowed and led to the drama flows into the village of Tihange, about 500 meters southwest of the nuclear power plant and flows into the communal pertuis that passes under the Tihange nuclear site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u126	Minister, given the time, I will take the time to analyze your answer by consulting a map, and I will come back to you, if necessary. Nevertheless, I note that we were lucky that an agent had passed through that, almost by chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u127	I have an additional comment. A question was forgotten on the agenda, although it was noted. It was a question of Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (Doc. 8977 by Mrs Leen Dierick, on cyber attacks on That question will be taken together with Mr Nollet's next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u128	Mr. President, Minister, the nuclear security index that NTI has just released points to the absolute weakness of our nuclear facilities in terms of cybersecurity. Our country has been credited with a pitiful 0/100, at the same level as North Korea and Kazakhstan to name only those. Clearly, our country is not ready to face a cyber attack on its nuclear facilities. This is a matter of concern to us and, I suppose, to you. But this is probably also related to the lack of a legal framework in this area. This is all the more worrying given the potentially catastrophic consequences of such an attack on a nuclear site. Access control systems can be "cracked", the production of unauthorized nuclear materials can cause much damage; accounting systems can be manipulated, reactor cooling systems can be deliberately crippled. There's no need to add any more. It seems that the dissemination of this report has resonated as a real alarm signal. A meeting seems to have been convened as a matter of urgency on 1 February between the security centre and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Can you tell us: 1) What lesson do you learn from this specific part of the NTI report on cyberattacks? 2) What measures will you implement and when, in order to remedy this worrying situation? 3) what emerges from the February 1 meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u129	Mr Nollet, for several years, international and national efforts have focused on strengthening the physical protection systems of nuclear installations. The aim is to prevent unauthorized access to nuclear sites in order to prevent malicious acts involving nuclear material. However, following the proliferation of cyber attacks against governments and industries, cybersecurity has emerged as a priority at both the international and national levels. It is in this context that the competent Belgian authorities have initiated a process aimed at identifying possible characteristics of possible cyberattacks in the nuclear sector. This approach has identified the specific threats and risks specific to the nuclear facilities on our territory. The poor performance of our country in its approach to cybersecurity in the nuclear sector is therefore mainly due to the methodology used by the authors of the NTI report. To date, Belgium does not have any legal instruments explicitly mentioning cybersecurity in the nuclear sector. The NTI report using regulation as a decisive criterion for assessing this point has led to a poor score for Belgium. This score is, however, detrimental to the work of the relevant authorities. The cybersecurity approach is part of the same framework as the specific control of information security, regulated by the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on the categorization and protection of nuclear documents. Existing legislation requires nuclear operators to protect any type of information, including information that is available on computer media and that is in digital form. In accordance with article 1 bis of the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, relating to AFCN, "nuclear document" means any information, in any form, relating to nuclear materials in production, use, storage or transport and protective measures taken to protect nuclear materials and installations and the transport of nuclear materials. As a result, and although the terms "cybersecurity" and "cyberattack" are not literally included in the legislation, any nuclear facility has an obligation to take measures to protect nuclear documents – including those stored in digital form on computer networks or other electronic devices. In practice, the information security and cybersecurity of Belgian nuclear power plants are followed in two ways. First, their protection against cyber attacks has already been thoroughly audited in the 2011 resistance tests. The results show that a cyber attack on Belgian power plants cannot lead to a loss of safety functions, in particular because reactor control and protection systems are separated from the computer networks of the plant and the company. In addition, almost all reactor control and protection systems use technology that is invulnerable to cyberattacks. All parties concerned are aware that these resistance tests were only a snapshot and that continuous monitoring of cybersecurity is essential in view of the rapid and constant evolution in this area. This is why AFCN and Bel V also carry out specific monitoring of the information security of all nuclear installations in Belgium through regular verifications. Similarly, any changes to facilities are assessed against information security and cyber security. In addition, the Agency closely monitors the development of global cybersecurity recommendations within the International Atomic Energy Agency. It pays particular attention to the exchange of information with foreign authorities in order to share good cyber security practices. It is also in this context that AFCN planned in 2015, even before the release of the NTI report, a meeting with the newly created Cybersecurity Center. It took place last January. It discussed the initiatives Belgium still needs to undertake in order to optimize its cybersecurity and further strengthen international cooperation in this area. As regards the meeting on 1 February, are you thinking about the meeting with the French?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u130	No, it was a meeting between the Federal Agency and the Cyber Security Management Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u131	I think it took place in January. But perhaps the report dates from 1 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u132	Mr President, we had a meeting of the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety earlier and we held various hearings. We were systematically told that the most important danger was to be in the denial and minimization of the necessary benchmarks in terms of nuclear safety and security. You're talking about a methodological problem. It is because it is not suitable for Belgium that it has won such a bad ranking in terms of cybersecurity and the risk of cyberattacks! I think, minister, you're making a mistake. No doubt there is some of the points related to it, but a score of 0 out of 4 or 0 out of 100 cannot make us believe that all these elements are attributable to a difference in methodology. Our country is at the level of Kazakhstan, North Korea and very unenviable countries. While in 2011 the report was relatively satisfactory, today the attack and cyber attack devices are completely different. I urge you, very seriously, to ask for an in-depth, independent analysis, with other methodological criteria if you wish, in relation to the reliability of our nuclear power plants in this respect. I have been able to have some contacts with various experts in this field and with people who have worked at the computer level in nuclear power plants. They are in no way reassuring without being able to carry out an audit such as the one just carried out by NTI and which ranks Belgium among the worst pupils in this field. I remain concerned and invite you to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u133	Barbara Hendricks, German Minister of the Environment, came to tell you this Monday, February 1st of the greatest concerns of Germany and the border populations regarding the state of the Belgian nuclear power plants in Doel and Tihange after a series of unexpected stops and recent incidents but also more generally related to the fissures and prolongation of our aging plants. In mid-January Germany had sent a list of 15 questions on the subject to the Belgian authorities. Questions which, as of 27 January, had still not been answered, which is something that your German colleague complains about. Of course, as part of a beautiful communication operation, you proposed the organisation of joint inspections, but in response to a parliamentary question, the representative of the German Ministry said that unfortunately, this joint inspection did not even mean full access to the buildings. How do you want to talk about full transparency if part of the plant's facilities is made inaccessible to German inspectors? Would you have something to hide? May I ask you to send us the questions but above all the fifteen answers that Belgium has been able to provide to Germany and to tell us what fears Minister Hendricks came to report to you on 1 February? Towards the outside, the communication is indeed: "I am reassured, for now!!!" Saying this and waiting for answers is proof that the reflection on this matter is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u134	Mr Nollet, on 11 and 12 January 2016, ten experts from the German nuclear safety authorities participated, as did representatives from 19 other countries, in an international workshop on tank files for Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. During this workshop, they were able to ask their questions orally to the experts of AFCN, Bel V and Electrabel. They responded immediately and in detail. At the end of this workshop, the experts of the German nuclear safety authorities submitted these same questions to AFCN in writing. In the document in question, Belgium was first and foremost commended by the German authorities for its openness. I quote: "Germany knowledge your openness and frequent reporting on the issue on different occasions as well as your present intention to address the RPV (??) issue with experts of other national safety authorities. We appreciate that you made substantial summaries of your evaluations and conclusions publicly available." AFCN then confirmed that all the questions would be the subject of a written reaction in February and that German experts could at any time ask any questions to their Belgian colleagues with whom they are in direct contact. During this workshop, it was therefore agreed with the Germans that the oral replies would be provided in writing in February. Therefore, if Minister Hendricks intends to give the impression that experts in the bodies within her jurisdiction still cannot have all the information they want, it appears that this communication does not fit into reality. With regard to cross-inspections, in January 2016 AFCN invited its German colleagues to organise cross-inspections in Belgium and Germany, as I have already announced in this committee. On this occasion, there was never a question of restricting German inspectors' access to buildings. So I don't know where that statement came from. These cross-inspections will be part of a general strengthening of bilateral relations between the Belgian and German security authorities. As of spring 2016, it is planned to meet regularly with experts from both countries in a consultation committee whose aim is to facilitate the exchange of information on ongoing projects, incidents or other topical issues. Transparency vis-à-vis Germany is therefore identical to that vis-à-vis France, the Netherlands or Luxembourg. As with other countries, cross-inspection visits will be implemented on a regular basis. We have nothing to hide from our partners in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u135	Minister, I hear two different versions, the German version and yours. You say the German version doesn't fit into reality. We'll see what's going on. As for the answers that will happen in February, admit that this is special. It is said that the answers have already been given, but it takes a month to put them in writing. In any case, minister, with regard to the transparency of these responses, can you confirm that we will receive them as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u136	Je le confirm. I'm confirming it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u137	Je vous en remercie, monsieur le ministre. Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u138	Mr President, Minister, thank you for staying after the 18:00 deadline. There are only three of us. My question is a follow-up question on the situation in Zeebrugge. She's actually more about cooperation. I don't need to explain the situation to you. There have already been enough questions about this in committee. It is mainly about cooperation between local, federal, shipping and railway police. I'm getting the signal that cooperation with the railroad police isn't going very well. She doesn't control her domain as well. When illegal immigrants are found, the shipping police are asked for assistance, leaving the shipping police outside its own territory. That is why I am happy to ask you the following questions. Did you know about the role of the railroad police in this fight? How many illegal immigrants has she arrested recently or less recently? I'd like to get the numbers for the last three months. The Navy also has an important role to play in this respect. After all, the naval port is very central. Does the Navy have a role to play in the battle or will it have a role to play in the future? We have read a great deal about the sweeping actions in the newspaper. My question was drawn up day after day. Could you give us some more figures on those actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u139	Mr President, Mrs Dumery, I am indeed aware of the railway police's responsibilities in this area. The figures of the interceptions of the railway police in West Flanders are the following. In November 2015, there were 18 interceptions, 21 interceptions in December 2015 and 14 interceptions in January 2016. There is a protocol between the Navy component and the Federal Police that regulates intervention and participation in integrated operations. The exchange of information on maritime border surveillance shall be carried out in mutual support between the federal police and the marine component within the joint MIK or Maritime Information Node. These include federal police, defence and customs. Before the planned action, 28 transit migrants were intercepted in the port of Zeebrugge. During the Eastpack action, 62 transit migrants were arrested in total. In parallel, an action transit migrants were carried out in the West Coast police zone, again intercepting 20 transit migrants in the afternoon. Anything can be complained about, but actions are being carried out twice a month in connection with the problem of illegal immigrants and terrorism in cooperation with the French border police on the Kortrijk-Rijssel line. The railway police of West Flanders participates in all actions Havenstorm by controlling the Blankenberge, Knokke and Zeebrugge-Strand railway lines. Every day, in relation to the available capacity, increased monitoring of railway line 73 Gent-De Panne is carried out. Within the regular functioning of the West Flanders Railway Police, daily interventions are carried out in the context of default by illegals and transit migration. In this context, they shall be deprived of their freedom administratively and shall be subject to the administrative procedure in force. In the Veurne region, in particular in the station district, an increasing problem of illegal immigrants is identified. They come from a free bus line from Nord-Pas-de-Calais to De Panne, created for economic reasons in the past. Two finalities emerge in this. On the one hand, there is the finality of Zeebrugge, where the transmigrants make an attempt to reach the United Kingdom via port infrastructure. On the other hand, there is the station, ditto parking infrastructure at Veurne, where transit migrants try to get on board via climbing in trailers. To those who say that the railway police in West Flanders are not cooperating well, I answer that I wish that all police units everywhere work as well as the railway police in West Flanders!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u140	Mr. Secretary, I'm not the one complaining. In fact, I am very pleased that you have clarified the matter and that your message will be sent to the person who signaled it, which I assume will also be done by your services. I had a reply ready to thank you for the efforts that have been made recently in our region. It is not me who complains, but if something is being reported, I think it would be better to raise it with you than not to ask any questions about it. Thank you very much for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u141	Thank you, Minister, for your courtesy to the members present. A recent Europol report referred to jihadist training camps at the gates of the European Union, and also referred to the Balkans. If such information were known to the intelligence services, we are officially called upon to discover it and demand a more political response. This Tuesday, we were able to hear from the managing director of Frontex, during an extremely interesting meeting. The work of the European Agency is fundamental. By hearing it, it was even more obvious that States must strengthen Frontex's capabilities, since it appears that today only 50 per cent of the reinforcements planned and decided by States are actually on the ground. I know, of course, that it is a matter of transforming Frontex into a genuine European border guard agency with about a thousand agents by 2020. However, our schedule is shorter and action is needed in the shorter term. However, it is particularly important to hear from States complaining about a "passory" Schengen and to note, at the same time, that these do not strengthen the structures specifically devoted to respect for European borders. Minister, do you confirm this information about the presence of training camps? If so, has the precise location of these jihadist places been carried out by the European border control services and the national intelligence services? Have European cooperation measures on these camps recently been taken by the Ministers of the Interior within the JHA Council and if so which ones? Is there a monitoring and identification of visitors to refugee centres and hot spot areas carried out by all European countries and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u142	Mr Pivin, by your questions you refer to the public report that Europol published last week at the end of the informal JHA Council. The police did not provide me with any information to challenge these elements. Since the public report has only recently been published, the police have not yet been able to check with Europol to which places it referred. This issue is pending. I have not received any information that such camps exist in Belgium, but we are looking at the report. At present, the JHA Council has not yet taken any specific measures. At European Union level, certain measures have obviously already been agreed, most of them aimed at improving the exchange of information – but nothing about these camps. Persons wishing to visit a resident must report to the reception centre. If identified, they only obtain permission to access the site provided that the resident accepts the visit. Organisations wishing to visit reception centres are also subject to authorisation. There is no exhaustive list of criteria for refusing access to a reception centre, but it is clear that access will be denied to any person or organization suspected of extremism. As for visitors admitted to the reception centre, on the basis of the cooperation protocol established between each reception centre and the local police, each reception centre shall keep an up-to-date register of visitors, which may be transmitted to the police at the request of the police. Therefore, the necessary checks may be carried out by the competent departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u143	Minister, thank you. It is indeed following the Europol report that I asked this question. If I refer to the item I have before me, this report was made public a few weeks ago. I think your services need to look for information on the location of these camps and be more active as a result of this rather disturbing information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u144	Mr President, my question must be quite close to what was supposed to have been asked by my colleague Dallemagne at the beginning of the afternoon, but I was absent. Minister, I know that legislative progress is being finalized with respect to measures to control and monitor persons who may be involved in terrorist acts or complicity. You're very attentive to it. The government is working with determination. However, we also read statements by some police zone officials regarding the follow-up of persons returning from combat activities in states at war. We also discover relatively irresponsible statements from politicians who allow themselves to indicate that human bombs are on the street. It seems to me that you should react, because such announcements are disastrous for our country and its image. I come to my questions. How many foreign fighters are currently registered in the national territory? How many federal and local police officers are currently dedicated to their monitoring? I'm talking about the people who came back. What concrete measures are being taken in terms of monitoring? Restrictions on freedom - prohibition of access to certain places, contact with such persons, etc. - are they being imposed on these individuals? How much attention has the police paid to those who have remained in the combat zones? My last question was not initially introduced, and if you do not have any answers to that question, I would understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u145	Mr Pivin, on the basis of the last consolidated list of 28 January, there are 269 fighters in Syria or Iraq, 88 of whom are likely to have lost their lives. For the time being, there are 181 combatants on the ground. Six people are said to be on their way to Syria and Iraq, 117 are said to have returned and 59 have made a failed attempt. As far as your second question is concerned, it is more difficult to answer because these figures are changing sharply. The division of duties and responsibilities between the federal police and the local police depends on the agreements reached on an ongoing basis at the level of each district. No centralized monitoring is planned. So I can't provide figures. With regard to returns, it should be noted that an investigation is still under way by the judicial authorities. In the context of these separate investigations, measures of deprivation of liberty of various orders may be imposed, but always at the request of the judge responsible. It may thus be decided to keep a person in pre-trial detention, to impose specific conditions, but other measures of deprivation of liberty are also possible. In addition to these measures of deprivation of liberty, additional measures may be adopted, such as, for example, measures designed, in consultation with the SPF Foreign Affairs, to prevent the issue of a passport or travel document of its own motion. These entities are also subject, within the local task forces, to multidisciplinary consultation on possible measures, e.g. police follow-up, to be adopted in the light of the judicial record. With regard to your additional question about on-site combatants, it is clear that follow-up is more difficult to ensure in this regard. For these persons, a judicial file has been opened. This means that searches continue via the internet, Facebook, Google, etc. They are reported at the international level. Whenever information reaches a security service about these persons, this information arrives in Belgium to complete the file. But we don't have satellite surveillance to observe all these people. However, at the international level, there are numerous exchanges of data on the various judicial files opened by Belgium for the 181 combatants reported. Given their reporting, it is very difficult for them to travel. But as long as they remain in Syria, our means of following them will be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u146	Minister, I understand that very well. At the same time, one cannot help but remember that one of them was in Paris while, on the cards, it was reported in Syria. I am aware of the difficulty of the task, but we should be as sure as possible of their actual presence in Syria rather than in nature! This is an evolutionary problem. I do not think that we will go so far as to use the individual satellite, but we do not know what measures should be taken in the future either. Thank you for your clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u147	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the Treaty of Prüm and the exchange of scientific data in judicial matters between the countries signatory to this Agreement, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision on 30 November 2009 providing for compulsory accreditation of scientific service providers leading to laboratory activities. As a result, forensic laboratories had to meet quality standards agreed at European level by 30 November 2015. As part of a parliamentary question dated 26 October 2015, you have nevertheless specified that "the objective to be achieved is to obtain accreditation by 1 July 2018". In order to meet these criteria, the 14 laboratories of the scientific police, which fall within the competence of the Federal Judicial Police (FJP), must therefore be invested. Concerns have been expressed that federal judicial police attached to judicial districts with a court of appeal (Brussels, Ghent, Liège, Mons and Antwerp) have priority over other judicial districts, whose police services and magistrates are equally demanding the presence of a community laboratory accredited to European standards. For example, with regard to the department of the PJF laboratory in Walloon Brabant, the field actors highlight the considerable support it represents for local police and justice in the broad sense of the term, carrying out raids on criminal scenes and also carrying out traces following burglaries, a priority phenomenon of the National Security Plan. Ensuring the availability of a forensic police laboratory in each district, meeting all quality standards, is obviously the guarantee of a more effective and close justice. Minister, what is the progress of the accreditation files of these 14 laboratories? What about the district of Walloon Brabant? Do you confirm that these 14 laboratories will all be accredited by July 1, 2018? Is there any evidence of the rumour that the funds will be focused on laboratories directly attached to the country's 5 appeal courts? I hope not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u148	At the moment, we do not agree with the European directives because we do not have any accredited laboratories. This is why the Federal Police and, more specifically, the Technical Police Directorate, have defined four scenarios. The first scenario is to keep everything in order, which would cost us €3.5 million a year in European fines. The second scenario corresponds to the one you just described. This would involve the installation of 14 accredited laboratories. The third scenario would focus on the appeal court sections. Finally, following the fourth scenario, we would have only one laboratory in our territory. I excluded Scenarios 1 and 4 and, after discussion with the federal police, I asked the officials to provide me with a budget for the two remaining scenarios. But we have not calculated the budgetary effect of both scenarios. The decision is not yet made. As soon as I have the figures and the budget calculation, we can quickly make a decision. I understand very well the arguments regarding the proximity of these laboratories, but I will not take a decision without knowing the budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u149	Mr. Minister, don't you have a scenario of preference between the 2nd and the 3rd? Waiting for the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u150	I'm used to making decisions with all the elements. Making a decision based on half the elements is not very healthy. So for the moment, I have no preference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u151	The question that is being asked is exclusively budgetary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u152	No, we have a file containing arguments in favour and against both scenarios. But in this case, the budgetary consequences are missing. It's one of the elements, not the only one. We know in advance that 5 laboratories will cost less than 14 laboratories. But when I present something to the Council of Ministers, I want to know what the budgetary consequences are before I take a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u153	Do you have a date, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u154	Yesterday, we visited the Technical Police Directorate. The different scenarios were presented to me as well as the arguments. I asked to calculate the impact on the budget. I think it will take a few weeks. The file will thus be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u155	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic335x.u156	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer; Mr Demeyer;
