ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, in our country many people join the nobility every year. Officially, it is said that the King grants the nobility to persons who have been deserving themselves in their field and beyond, and to persons of international character. In practice, the Consultative Commission shall draw up a list of candidates for the award of noble favours and for the award of high-grade honour signs, which shall be submitted to the Minister for Foreign Affairs Reynders. On that list there are men and women who have, in one way or another, achieved special achievements. This could be very spacious. Known examples are Dirk Frimout, Eddy Merckx and Willy De Clerck. Also within the domain of public health people were already invented with a noble title. I am thinking, for example, of the award of the title of knight in 2012 to the head of the Department of Crisis Management in your Department of Public Health. It is true that every noble title has a price tag. The data subject must pay registration fees for himself and every descendant. An additional formality is the design of a coat of arms, which is also not free of charge. A coat of arms soon cost more than a few thousand euros. I would have liked to ask you the following questions, Madam Secretary. How many people have been invented in the Health Department for the last ten years with a noble title? Who applies for the design of a coat of arms attached to the noble titles? Is this the responsibility of the Public Health Office or the candidate? Who pays, when awarded the noble titles to people in the Health Department, the cost of these titles? Who pays the registration fees? Who's paying for the coat of arms? What amounts was that about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, the award of noble titles to staff of the Public Health Office, Food Chain Safety and the Environment is very exceptional. In the last ten years, only one staff member of the FOD has been created with a noble title. Following the recognition by the Palace, the order form for the design of the coat of arms was placed by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. That voucher amounted to EUR 3 000. As you know, the decision was taken during the previous legislature. I understand she's gone by the rules and the procedures. At least that's what I was told. In the absence of precedents, the FOD has based itself on what is common in the field of civil honour signs and national order. There, too, the costs will be borne by the FPS. By contrast, registration fees, amounting to EUR 750 per male member of the family, were, of course, charged by the knighted person in question. They're just for the men. You're talking about rights per family member, but they're only there for the men.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the answer does not surprise me. I also know that this happened during the previous legislature. However, you yourself state that it is absolutely inappropriate for the Public Health Office to pay for the design. I also checked with Mr Reynders. When it comes to designing a heraldic shield, the costs are also borne by the candidate who is conceived with a sign of honor. Here the FPS Health paid for something that absolutely should not have been paid by the service. I take note of the answer. It is, of course, a pity that this has already passed. It's only about one case. However, this is not the correct way of working. I hope that this will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u4	Madam President, Minister, for the past few years, Valproate antiepileptics have been on the saddle because of the high teratogenic risks it presents when used in pregnant women. Risks of malformation, intellectual retardation, walking and autism have been identified. A report produced by the French health authorities now estimates between 425 and 450 the number of births of live or stillborn children exposed in utero to Valproate between 2006 and 2014 and carrying a congenital malformation. Since 1 March, the French authorities have decided to impose a warning for pregnant women on the medicine box. Discussions on the adoption of a similar measure in our country have already taken place in the Committee on Public Health. Currently, it appears that Valproate should no longer be prescribed to girls and women of childbearing potential, nor to pregnant women except in cases of ineffectiveness or intolerance to drug alternatives. However, according to our information, this medicine still seems to be commonly used by emergency services, especially in cases of eclampsia. Minister, do you intend to ask for a report, as your French counterpart has done, to find out any cases of malformations related to the use of Valproate in Belgium? Have specific directives been issued to healthcare facilities and to different healthcare professionals regarding the use of this medicine and its risks? Have recommendations been provided on alternatives, particularly for acute services that are apparently large users? On February 24, it was reported that discussions were under way within the Federal Medicines Agency on the advisability of placing a warning on medicinal products containing Valproate, like France. Can you tell us if a decision has been made as a result of these discussions? Finally, the Director of the Agence française du Médicament indicated that a re-evaluation of all antiepileptic drugs would be completed by the summer of 2016. What about us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u5	Madam Minister, I have already asked you several times about Valproate, the conditions of prescription and delivery, the educational material concerning Valproate-containing medicines, the registers of congenital malformations, since there is, so to speak, no such thing and the prohibition logo not only on Valproate but on teratogenic medicines. I would like to focus on two important issues. The first is specific to Valproate. If I am not mistaken, you have received several requests from the Belgian Association of Victims of Valproate Syndrome to be able to meet you. Allow me to plead with you so that you may take the time to meet them. That seems really important to me. Secondly, I tabled a little time ago a bill calling for a warning to women with regard to teratogenic medicines. At that time, a member of your party, in committee, made clear the fact – and the majority as a whole followed – that he considered my bill ridiculous, while specifying that the AFMPS had rendered a negative opinion. However, AFMPS believes that it is appropriate to include a clear warning on the packaging of medicinal products that are found to have teratogenic effects. It is not only because of this that one will prevent the taking of medication during pregnancy, but this eye-catching visual is an additional tool. In fact, especially with drugs that care for chronic diseases, you can start taking a drug and pregnancy can occur many years later. On this point, Minister, what progress has been made in this area? In addition to the positive opinion of the AFMPS, it was felt that a working group should be set up, either through your firm or internally. This point needs to be clarified. I would like to know more about this. In view of the various points that we have already mentioned, are there any progress that we can hope for on the register side, but also to ensure greater efficiency with regard to the introduction of educational material, because initiatives have been taken in Belgium. It has been recognised that some progress has been made, but I think that we can go even further in terms of effectiveness, giving ourselves the greatest chance of avoiding the use of teratogenic medicines during pregnancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium does not currently have similar data from national registers of congenital malformations. French data are derived from estimates made on the basis of the register of malformations in the Rhône-Alpes region to estimate the number of exposed fetuses with malformations in France between 2006 and 2014. In Belgium, the teratogenic risk of Valproate was mentioned in the package leaflet in 1984 and has since been updated taking into account available scientific data. It should be noted that drugs with recognized teratogenic adverse reactions, such as Valproate, already have risk management plans with additional activities and risk minimization. In Belgium, a pictogram prohibiting use during pregnancy has already been affixed to the educational material and the RM1 of Valproate has been distributed since May 2015 to patients and healthcare professionals. The Public Health Committee has examined a bill tabled by Mrs Fonck aimed at affixing a visual warning on the packaging of medicinal products with teratogenic effects. The Commission has asked for a written opinion of this proposal from various persons and institutions, including AFMPS, which, in turn, has asked the Commission for its opinion on medicinal products for human use. The Commission believes that it is preferable to set up a working group to examine, among other things, the following aspects. Where is the limit of potential teratogenicity? What products do they account for? What types of warnings should they be used to be understandable around the world? What other products may also be harmful if taken during pregnancy? Could they be given a similar warning? The AFMPS follows this view and emphasizes the importance of thinking about a working group that would look at the drugs to be selected and the form of warning. I agree with my administration's position and will therefore request the establishment of a working group within the AFMPS Commission for Medicinal Products. They'll get in touch with my firm's strategic cell. I will also encourage AFMPS to direct this working group to take into account the various European approaches in their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u7	Minister, there's nothing new. Serge Lama said "adventure on adventure"; here it is from committee to committee, and from committee to working group. I hope that this working group will be able to act effectively and will be able to shed more light on the risks involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u8	Minister, it is true that the pictogram appears on educational material. But patients are not pregnant when they receive it. The day they are pregnant, sometimes the next day or ten years later, this material is stored far away in a drawer. The advantage of a defined visual hanger is that it attracts attention every time the patient takes her box in hand. I would like to draw your attention to the various converging and positive opinions we have received. Let us also recall the principled position of the AFMPS which states that "it is appropriate to include a clear warning", and which refers to this working group to define which list of teratogenic medicines should be defined and with which visual hang-up. On the European dimension, let me remind you that the market for medicinal products is made up of boxes specific to Belgium. There is therefore no incompatibility. France already has a visual eye on these teratogenic drugs. I would like to insist that attention and return be given to the Belgian Association of the Victims of Valproate Syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u9	Minister, it was recently reported in the press that prisoners from Louvain Prison had been commissioned by a private company to prepare 250,000 medical records of patients from CHU Ambroise Paré de Mons, with a view to their digitization. In practical terms, they had to do simple manipulations such as removing staples or trombones in order to facilitate the passage of documents to the scanner. Of course, to do this, the inmates had to open and manipulate all these files. They therefore had access to all medical records. The question therefore arises of the confidentiality of the data, which is an essential right of the patient, regardless of whether it was detainees who had access to the information. With the exception of the doctor, no one is supposed to have access to the medical record without the patient's explicit authorization. Minister, what position does this process inspire you? Is this a common practice? Following the publication of this information, it appears that you have asked for an investigation to see if this use of detainees does not constitute a violation of patients' rights. When are the results of this survey expected? Are you already considering specific measures to regulate this type of practice? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u10	Last week, the written press published that prisoners in Leuven-Central treat precarious patient data from the Ambroise Paré hospital in Bergen. They should prepare these files for scanning in order to compile an electronic medical file. So it was indeed about replacing staples and so on. Professor Herman Nys of KU Leuven calls it a flagrant violation of patient rights that such information is outsourced to detainees. In the meantime, you promised to start an investigation and to check whether the outsourcing of such tasks to detainees is not in conflict with current patient law. A number of critical voices were heard in the Netherlands as well when it became apparent that Belgian companies had already outsourced Dutch patient files to Belgian detainees in the past. In this context, I would have liked to ask you a few questions. What is your view on this? Do you think that prisoners are the appropriate persons in the appropriate place to complete such work? When will the investigation you started be completed? Is there a schedule for it? Do you have any preliminary results in the meantime? If so, which one? Are the prisoners of Leuven Central still handling patient data or is that order suspended? What was the duration of the assignment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u11	Madam President, first of all I would like to tell the questioners that work for detainees is actually a matter for my colleague, Minister Geens, but that, since I intervened in this dossier, I will say what has happened. As soon as the announcement was made in the press, my services immediately contacted CHU Ambroise Paré. It appears from this interview that the hospital actually contracted Canon to digitize certain medical records. The hospital was reportedly informed of the use of detainees and respect for professional secrecy would be included in the contract. Today, the digitalization procedure was interrupted by the CHU Ambrose Paré and the files all returned to the hospital. Therefore, I am going to express myself generally knowing that a number of hospitals are undertaking or are going to undertake the digitization of certain medical records. Under the Law of 22 August 2002 on the Rights of the Patient, every patient is entitled, inter alia, to a carefully kept record and to respect for his or her privacy. Therefore, patients should at the very least be informed of the implementation of a procedure to digitize their records by the hospital. In addition, the hospital must put in place a specific procedure that ensures data security during the digitization process. It must ensure that persons processing the files are subject to professional secrecy. I don't think that's the case when it's inmates who do this work. I recall that any violation of professional secrecy is criminally condemned under article 458 of the Criminal Code. It is and will continue to be a criminal offence if confidential data from a patient's file are treated by people who are not bound by professional secrecy. We know this very clearly, also because of the discussions in this committee during the rather difficult implementation of the law on patients' rights under my predecessor, Mrs Aelvoet. We really have to stick to that. So immediately the handling of the files was stopped and they were returned to the hospital, wherever they belong. In what way the hospital will deal with it, is something they will have time to decide on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u12	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister for the relevance and quality of her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u13	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the quality of your reply and for the speedy response, even though this issue is primarily the responsibility of your colleague, Minister None. You took immediate action. We could read that, too. That shows you're concerned with the case. Can it still happen in the future? Can other hospitals outsource such files to prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u14	As far as I know, this was established for the first time. To answer your last question, no, of course not. They know that the files should only be handled by persons bound by professional secrecy. It is therefore impossible to spend it on prisoners. The responsibility lies with the hospital, with the file manager, so the person to whom the patient entrusts his file. They cannot enter into a contract with a firm and ask for professional secrecy to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u15	It's obvious to me, and I'd be surprised if hospitals didn't. Is there gonna be another circular to point out this to the hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u16	It's a criminally prosecuted fact. Any infringement thereof is in criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u17	I suppose they're aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u18	There's enough professionalism in our hospitals to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u19	Apparently not everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u20	It is true that it is sometimes necessary to recall the content of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u21	Madam Minister, like many people who are on the job for their professional activities, the people of the Public Health Office sometimes get a company car. The function of these people is therefore inextricably linked to the many kilometres they have to make on the ground. Within the FPS Health certain categories of civil servants have the advantage of a service car. Your FOD also includes the Department of Environment. There is sustainability at the top, especially when it comes to giving service cars. The possession of a service car should therefore be an exception for officials of the Public Health Office. In this context, I would like to ask you the following. What is the general policy on service cars? What categories of civil servants are eligible for the possession of a service car? What are the terms? Are we looking at the specific function of the official who owns a service car so that this property can be justified? What type of service car is awarded to civil servants of the Public Health Office? What are the parameters for this? Will the service cars be taken abroad if necessary? What's the modus operandi on this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u22	Mrs Hufkens, thank you for your questions, because I have had a lot of contact with the Public Health Office, but I have not yet asked them such questions because I assume that this is settled. Indeed, there is a basis in the Royal Decree of 29 November 2001 on the basis of Article 15 (3) concerning the designation and exercise of management functions in the federal administrations. Only the mandate holders of the FPS Public Health, Environment and the BFSA are authorised to use a service vehicle for private purposes. The other FOD service vehicles may only be used by the officials using them for service assignments. Officials who are eligible to use a service vehicle are certain officials of the emergency services such as the federal health inspectors, urgent psychosocial and urgent medical workers, the Saniport controllers, also certain officials of the Rampen Management Service, the Marine Environment Service and the Directorate-General for Animal, Plant and Nutrition who perform watchkeeping services in their duties, are therefore on call or need to be on call continuously. The conditions are that these officials perform watchkeeping services or may be present at the intervention or disaster site as soon as possible in the event of a call. Take as an example the attacks of 22 March. Then there's an outpost that needs to do the triage. Whoever's on watch must be able to get to the scene of the disaster as soon as possible. In addition, the FOD also has a number of service vehicles used for relays and freight transport. They can also be reserved by staff for service transfers that cannot be carried out efficiently by public transport. The use of a service car is indeed linked to the specific function of the officials concerned. The service vehicles are passenger cars, equipped with priority signals such as a magnetic blue flashing light and a siren. The size of the vehicle is determined by the material that must be available, such as the need to have charts of the province for which they are responsible, safety helmets, boots, walking lamps, etc. A service vehicle for foreign missions is only used in very exceptional cases, only for neighbouring countries and when the location is difficult to reach by public transport. In addition, service vehicles do not have an international tank card or assistance insurance abroad. Our modus operandi is to allow the service relocations to run with the most sustainable means, i.e. in the first place public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and very clear answer. I have one more question. Is it true that there is also a 4x4 car in the vehicle park?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u24	I don't know. I don't know the fleet. I'm not interested in cars anyway; I know with difficulty which car I'm moving with myself. I know now because I've already been asked by the press. I'll check this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u25	I shall certainly ask it in writing or ask again next time. After all, that is important. I believe that a 4x4 car for urgent medical care is not really appropriate and that this is not really sustainable within the FPS Environment. I am therefore very interested in the answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u26	I might also be able to get the number of bikes and vespa...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u27	Minister, the health data of our fellow citizens can be regarded as sensitive data and must therefore be given the best possible protection. As part of the shared medical record, certain patient medical data are collected to feed records of certain diseases, epidemics or public health, in order to improve our health care by facilitating the work of researchers. However, it appears that the processing of this data, accessible via the healthdata.be website, does not sufficiently guarantee the anonymity of patients. Indeed, it seems that the data of patients such as their surname, first name and place of residence appear in these registers. A general practitioner said in the press: "It is so precise and dated that one can practically reconstitute the complete medical record of each patient". Needless to say, if they are easily accessible, the risk of using these data for a purpose other than the one that initially guided their harvest does exist. Minister, can you assure us that the complete anonymity of patient data is currently guaranteed within this framework or do you confirm the information that it is too easily accessible? If so, are you considering measures to strengthen the protection of this data, particularly in relation to the eHealth platform, which acts as an intermediary body responsible for keeping the conversion table between the encrypted pseudo and the identity of the person? Furthermore, it appears that patients are not informed of the framework within which their health data are used and for what purposes. Do you confirm this information? If so, would it not be useful to better inform the patient about the use of his data?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u28	Mr Senesael, I can give you the following information. A precise distinction should be made between the legal tasks of the eHealth platform, the exchange of unencoded health data between providers and the collection of data for registers within the framework of the healthdata.be platform. I feel like you're mixing this up. First, with regard to the legal tasks of the platform, eHealth can act as an intermediary organization for the coding of health data. This implies that the identification data is deleted and that the identification number is replaced by a random number. For variables uncommon in the data set, a small cell risk analysis is planned and restrictions are imposed if necessary. This implies that small group data must be aggregated so that the data relate to a sufficiently large number of people, thus excluding any re-identification. The eHealth platform can only maintain the link with the actual identification number and coded number if authorized by the Social Security and Health Sector Committee. Otherwise, it's not possible. If the eHealth platform is used for the coding of identification numbers, personal health data shall be encrypted and made illegible so that the eHealth platform cannot become aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u29	Secondly, the exchange of health-related data between healthcare providers for which the patient gives his or her informed consent takes place using unencoded personal data. Health data itself are kept at a decentralized level with health care providers or regional exchange networks, not with the eHealth platform. Storage is not done in a single place. The exchange takes place directly between care providers who have informed consent and/or regional exchange networks. As you know, in Wallonia, there is also a network. Messages sent are encrypted. The reference directory maintained by the eHealth platform contains only references indicating to which exchange network is kept which data types and for which patient. This directory is used to allow exchange between the different regional exchange networks. Third, coded personal health data are recorded as part of the healthdata.be platform. It is an infrastructure that standardizes the collection of health data for the registry. They are transmitted through the eHealthBox. Then they are encrypted and rendered illegible. In view of the above, I confirm my full confidence in the way in which the services of the platform intervene in the exchange of data between healthcare providers in the context of the care of the person concerned and in the collection of coded personal data. These exchanges must be considered separately, because the ellisibility is different from one platform to another. It's very technical.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I am a little novice in this area, but in view of what this doctor said in the press this morning, I am not convinced that all his colleagues are also informed of the three levels that you have explained in a very pedagogical and didactic way. Your answers allow me to feel more reassured and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 10351 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric's 10395 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u32	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has a structure with B-FAST that can be developed quickly when natural disasters occur. We have already discussed this, and also the need for coordination to be rapid and orderly, because emergency aid must be on the ground quickly. We have also stated earlier that the coordination of missions should be carried out in cooperation between your Public Health, Defence and Foreign Affairs Office. Of course, it is important that the right people are in the right place and preferably also with the right diplomas. For example, it could be logical for coordinators and managers within B-FAST to have appropriate accreditation with at least a master's degree giving access to a level A function. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. What diplomas and other accreditations are attached to the function of Head of Service within the Public Health Office? What are the conditions for the transfer of level B or level C officials to a level A function? What certificates and certificates are relevant to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, in this case, the recruitment of a Head of Department for Disaster Management, I can tell you that this vacancy was not opened up through promotion but in the traditional way through the recruitment of Level A. A derogation was requested from the diploma requirements laid down in Article 16 (2) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the Staff Regulations of Officials, so that persons with useful professional experience in that field may also participate in the selection. A ministerial decision was taken on 25 July 2011, which was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 25 August 2011. In that ministerial decision of my predecessor, a derogation was granted to these diploma conditions. The procedures and conditions for recruitment, flow or promotion at the Public Health Office are the same as those applicable to all other public services. The conditions for this were explained and described in detail on Selor's website and can also be found in the respective legislations. The general procedure for transition from level B to level A also exists, but has never been used in this particular case. That procedure is therefore irrelevant in this case, but it does exist. That procedure works like this. Promotion to a higher level is possible if the official fulfils the following three conditions. Firstly, he or she has been appointed by law and has completed the internship. Secondly, he or she did not get insufficient and no points to be improved in the latest evaluation. Thirdly, he or she succeeds in the comparative selection. The comparative selection involves different promotional trials and is, as always, organised by Selor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u34	Madam Secretary, do I understand that this was an exception for the Head of Crisis Management at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u35	A derogation was then requested to allow persons with useful professional experience to participate in the selection. This derogation was granted by the Ministerial Decree of 25 July 2011 published in the Belgian Official Journal on 25 August 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u36	From then Minister Onkelinx?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u38	Can you tell me how this professional experience had to be demonstrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u39	I can have that looked up in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u40	I'll ask you a follow-up question. It would be nice to have a look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u41	I'll have it looked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u42	Madam Minister, you are also undoubtedly aware that the Flemish Health Inspectorate, which is responsible for the control and operation of the FPC, the Forensic Psychiatric Centre in Ghent, states in a report that there are too few staff working to provide proper care to the interns. For example, there is a shortage of nurses, so there is no guarantee that there is always a nurse present in each department. That also has consequences for the night shift. According to the Vlaamse Zorginspectie (Flemish Health Inspectorate), this is far from sufficient to enable all planned care tasks to be carried out in a qualitative manner. In addition, and that is very bad for a forensic psychiatric center, according to that report of the Flemish Health Inspectorate not all therapeutic assistants would have the right degree. It is therefore possible to ask whether all patients receive the right individual guidance. As you know, Belgium has already been convicted a few times because it received internees in ordinary prisons and they have not received proper treatment there. If it turns out they don't get the right treatment in the Forensic Psychiatric Center, we have a big problem. The Flemish Health Inspectorate concludes that there is a great deal of tension between what was contractually agreed and what is necessary to ensure the continuous quality of care and patient safety. I do not need to remind you, Madam Secretary, that there was a great deal of commotion about the appointment of the manager of this forensic centre. In the end, this meant privatisation of care. A tender was issued for it and the cheapest was allowed to use the facility. If it is now established that the conditions laid down by registration are not met, then there is a major problem. At the time I submitted this question, I hadn't had any contact with the mayor of Ghent. The mayor of Ghent, who is still responsible for safety in that institution, has requested the inspection report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u43	You have a good mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u44	I know. The mayor requested the inspection report, but he didn't get it. He has now applied again through the government. I would urge him to hand it over. I understand that this is a confidential piece, and the mayor certainly understands it. However, I think he should be able to receive this report. I come to my questions. Madam Secretary, can you explain why there are too few staff in the FPC? What contractual agreements were agreed with the operator in advance and, according to the report, have not been fully complied with? What diploma conditions apply? Will the operator take concrete measures following the report of the Flemish Health Inspectorate? Are you aware of that? What measures can you take to put an end to this mismatch? If the operator designated on the basis of an open invitation to tender fails to comply with his contract, can that be broken? Does this result in a new public tender? What are the conditions for the care staff in the FPC's invitation to tender in Antwerp today? From what is happening in Ghent we can draw the necessary lessons for the new procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u45	Madam Secretary, the analysis was made by Mr Temmerman. We read the news in the news early April: there are too few nurses in the FPC, the night shift is too small, several staff do not have the right diploma. Apparently, vacancies aren't filled either, and that's the contradiction in the story. The growth pains of the center are normal. It's the first of its kind. It is important that we learn from these growing pains, with a view to the FPC in Antwerp. In the Senate, where we drew up the contract at the time, the standard was set at 0.7 FTE. Even then it was said that it was far too low. This is now confirmed by practice, as well as by the Flemish Health Inspectorate. Is this another view of FPC? We concentrate mainly on the prisoners, while the Health Inspectorate may rather focus on the care aspect. Shouldn't this be considered in the case of interned people? They're not just prisoners. Will you change the objective of the FPC? How do you justify the choice you make? Has this already been discussed with Flanders? What is the status of the proposed standard of 0.7 FTE? Will it be adjusted or released? Is there a difference in vision on the FPC between Flanders and the federal government? Where's the difference in vision? What's the federal government's vision? What consequences does this have for the contractual provisions on staffing to be respected by the FPC? The Health Inspectorate states that there is a great deal of tension between what has been contractually agreed and what is necessary to ensure the continuous quality of care and patient safety. Isn't that a breach of contract? What conclusions do you draw from that? Have you discussed this with your Flemish colleague? What's the outcome of that meeting? As regards the evaluation of the FPC in Ghent, there is a protocol agreement requiring a follow-up committee to verify compliance with the operating conditions. Has there been an evaluation of that follow-up committee? Has it even come together yet? What were their conclusions on compliance with the contractual provisions? What is the outcome of the evaluation they have made? How do you proceed, even in the future, with the allocation of a commercial operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u46	Madam Secretary, the same analysis is being carried out three times in a row. So I can briefly summarize my analysis. As my fellow Members have pointed out, not all therapeutic assistants appear to have the right degree for individual guidance. There are also too few nurses. I also agree with the questions about the standard of 0.7 carers per bed, which clearly does not appear to be sufficient. I can also refer to the number of vacancies for nurses, which summarises the analysis of my two previous colleagues. That's how I get to my questions. First of all, can and will you do anything to encourage nurses to work in the FPC? Secondly, do you or do you not question the standard of 0.7 carers per bed? I think the answer to this question is negative. However, experts told us years ago that this would be insufficient. Thirdly, do you think that the Flemish Health Inspectorate should make a difference between the control of an FPC and that of a psychiatric hospital? If so, where exactly should these checks differ? Fourthly, do you intend to amend the protocol agreement between Flanders and the federal level for the inspection of the FPC? It is precisely this agreement that stipulates that the checks must be carried out in the same way as for a psychiatric hospital. Finally, the domestic regulations drawn up by the private partners of the FPC state what should and should not be done, but do not say anything about the training requirements for the staff. The care staff is indeed subject to joint committee 330, which also falls within your competence. How is it that the care personnel are apparently not or are not adequately trained to provide such individual guidance? So where's the shoe pinching?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u47	Madam Secretary, I will put my two questions into one question. That's a little faster. Two years ago, a psychiatric center came into commercial hands for the first time in our country. For the operation of the new center two years ago there were two candidates: Sodexo and the Dutch care group Parnassia, on the one hand, and a platform of non-profit institutions with experience, on the other. The government chose the first candidate because he made an offer that met the government's minimum conditions at a price of EUR 3.5 million lower than that of the counter candidate. Your fellow party members were lyrical: the benefits of the market finally came into play in the largest sector of the country, the care sector, not yet affected by the market principle. The audit report of the Flemish Health Inspectorate now sheds light on the issue: permanence of nursing is not guaranteed, there is insufficient night work and staff do not always have the right diploma. One could ask whether it is really surprising that such abuses occur. If a company claims to work 3.5 million euros cheaper than a competitor, then there must be savings somewhere. The differences were clear two years ago. One provided more than ten caregivers per ten patients, the other wanted to do it with the strict minimum of seven per ten. I think care is human work. A sufficiently high level of staffing is indispensable in any care establishment. The audit report of six weeks ago says indirectly how the Health Inspectorate judges the choice of the government, I quote: "There is a big tension between what was contractually agreed and what is necessary to ensure continuous quality of care and patient safety." Are you, as a minister, prepared to protect our country from greater commercialisation of the sector? Recently you replied "The FPC Ghent is doing a great job," when you were asked to respond to the Health Inspectorate report. That answer is perhaps as disturbing as the facts themselves. I would like to refer to a European study published in spring 2014 in the medical journal The Lancet. This study shows the relationship between a decrease in the number of nurses and an increase in mortality rates. Belgium was at the bottom of this study, with an average of 10.8 patients per nurse, compared with 7.0 patients in the Netherlands and 5.2 in Norway. Madam Minister, I have the following specific questions for you. Firstly, how do you respond to these findings of The Lancet regarding the relationship between the number of nurses and mortality rates? Secondly, are you prepared, following these figures, to take measures on the number of patients per nurse? Thirdly, do you have mortality rates for the FPC in Ghent, broken down by cause? Can you compare these with similar institutions elsewhere in our country? Fourthly, what is your response to the Flemish Health Inspectorate's audit report on the FPC in Ghent? Finally, would you like to formally commit yourself to keeping care within the non-profit sector in the future and not to outsource new hospitals and healthcare institutions to the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are asking questions, but I do not understand that you are already drawing conclusions for yourself in your questions. So you will not agree to my answer and you will not benefit from it because you have already drawn your own conclusions, but that is your right. I can inform you that the protocol agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Community on the exercise of inspection powers in the FPC stipulates that the FPC will be inspected as if it were a psychiatric hospital, notwithstanding the hospital law not applicable to the FPC. It is a start-up year which makes sense that the required number of nurses has not yet been fully achieved. There is indeed a delay in recruitment. The FPC is therefore open to this and takes the necessary measures to remedy the shortcomings as quickly and properly as possible. I should also like to point out that the audit report has, in fact, largely given positive comments. It has also been said that the inspection was carried out after one year, while normally inspections of a psychiatric service take place after three years because it is only after three years that it can be assessed whether the way of working meets the requirements. Nevertheless, it is a good thing that the Flemish Health Inspectorate has already done so after one year because it will be possible to play shorter on the ball for improvements to care for interned people. The FPC operator shall comply with the conditions set out in the tender file and shall be under the supervision of the follow-up committee. Health inspection Flanders makes recommendations to the follow-up committee through its report, not only based on the existing regulations for psychiatric services, as there is no regulation for an FPC yet, but also on its own vision of care. The Flemish Health Inspectorate indeed has its own vision of the care and that is its right. Article 11 of the Protocol Agreement provides that Healthcare Inspection Flanders may publish its findings. I don't see why your mayor didn't get a copy of that. This will have to be addressed at Flemish level. Article 16 states that cooperation with the Vlaanderen Zorginspectie will last for two years and Article 15 states that it will be evaluated annually. I told you, there is no staff standard for the FPC. That is why Health Inspection Flanders says very detailed that it relies on the IVE standard and the staffing in the medium risk units. Those are intensive psychiatric treatment units. They do not indicate exactly how much that standard is, but say that it is higher than the staffing framework established by the agreement for the FPC. They also take into account only the nursing and medical staff present and not the number of safety personnel present. The contract documents and the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 stipulated that the FPC should have a comprehensive care equipe of 21.25 full-time equivalents per 30 beds. This staff framework was determined from the functional classification of the FPC. I've been visiting that. It does indeed consist of four different units: first, the observation and orientation unit, 56 beds; second, the passionate treatment unit, 96 beds; third, the rehabilitation and reintegration units, 96 and 16 beds; and fourth, the 8-bed crisis unit. Only part of these beds can be considered as intensive treatment units with the standard of 30 full-time equivalents per 16 beds. For the other beds, the staff standard for an A-service, which is 15 full-time equivalents per 30 beds, and for a T-service, which is 10 full-time equivalents for 30 beds, shall apply. It's not just about care staff. The presence of security personnel shall not be taken into account to any extent. The upgrade of the medium-risk units is motivated by a higher safety need. In a psychiatric hospital there are normally no security people present. The medium units get an update of 30 full-time equivalents. There is no greater need for care but safety for the other patients and for the care staff. Health inspection Flanders acknowledges that the staffing, as defined in the specifications and in the KB of 19 December 2014, is achieved by the operator of the FPC Gent. The same standard is also used in the FPC Antwerpen. The invitation to tender is also written out in the same way. Care inspection Flanders departs from its own senses and states that therapeutic assistants must have a degree of caregiver. These therapeutic assistants perform the task of individual counselor, a kind of permanent contact person. That's not a nurturing function. It is the presence of a permanent contact in such a small unit. I've seen those people. They're cooking dinner together. It is easy to distinguish between the people with a medical task and the others. In some cases they are people with a training of social assistant, social agogen, pedagogues or staff with a secondary diploma that is not nurturing. I see no reason at this time to take action for the FPC Ghent. The report of the Flemish Health Inspectorate states that the staff, as defined in the specifications and in the KB of my predecessor, is to be obtained. There is also no reason to set a different standard in the already ongoing tender for the FPC Antwerp. As regards your question about The Lancet, Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Dedry and other members of the committee, we have already heard in the discussion of hospital funding, that the number of patients per nurse has long reached the bottom in Belgium. That's right. The MAHA study also clarified this: the savings made in hospitals were mainly focused on staffing and nurses. That's why we got so low in that study. I don't follow you anymore if you link it to privatisation. You know that in our country most hospitals are public hospitals and there are far fewer private hospitals. The standard used in The Lancet is the average across the country. It would be interesting, and perhaps you can have it examined, to know the differences between the occupation in public and private hospitals, and also in residential care centres, but there is nothing in The Lancet about that. Honor that study, because indeed, the number of patients per nurse is very low in our country. That is why we are in the process of setting up KB No. 78 to investigate how we can put more women and men to bed with the patient. That is a great concern for me, because I think it is essential that there is enough nursing. I am also concerned about the workload in nursing. Based on your reasoning on that one study, it is not, that has nothing to do with it, because it is two different facts. On the first, you are right, I do not know about the second. It should be possible to compare the staffing of public and private hospitals. Then there are the mixed with public/private funding, the one run by mutualities, I can write a book about it. It is like the harvest of forest mushrooms on an autumnal day: there are in all sizes and colors and some are a bit weird. Mrs Temmerman, as far as your mayor's concerns are concerned, I have already sat with him on other matters before, and I will be happy to provide him with all the information I have at my disposal. Of course, I do not have any laws to make to the Flemish Health Inspectorate, but I would like to invite him to give a thorough analysis of what is happening there on his territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u49	I would remind you that one minute per person per reply is provided. You can always submit a follow-up request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u50	Madam President, I will speak very quickly. Madam Minister, the mayor himself has applied to the Flemish Government but he has not yet received the report. He also did not have an answer to his question. However, this is by the way. You say I'm concluding before you say anything in your answer. I just quoted what I read in the paper. So I didn't conclude anything. However, I will conclude in my reply. You keep saying that nothing is going on, but according to the newspaper, it is literally stated in the report that the Flemish Health Inspectorate concludes that there is a great deal of tension between what was contractually agreed and what is necessary to ensure the continuous quality of care and patient safety. So that is an item that the Health Inspectorate has brought forward. I would like to come back to the fact that the report was not seen. One of the reasons is that there is currently a public tender in Antwerp. That's really to fall off your chair. In other words, economic interests are at the forefront of patients' interests in terms of care and safety. I find that really irresponsible. The Flemish Government's refusal to reply and to forward the report is very rude. Of course, that is not for you, it is for the fact that they do not want to pass it on. Madam Secretary, I find it frightening that you say that nothing is going on. There's obviously something going on. It is possible that the newspapers have exaggerated it a little bit, but the report clearly says otherwise I cannot believe the newspapers that there is a problem, that there is too little staff and above all that too little care is being given. Once again, it is precisely for the care of interned people that we have been condemned several times in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u51	Those reports weren't based on the care in the center.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u52	I know. Those reports were based on the situation in the prisons. I visited the prison in Ghent. I'm just saying we need to pay extra attention to it. We've already been convicted. If we are now specifically convicted of this, then we have a big problem. I find it rather disturbing that you are passing lightly there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u53	We've had a big problem with interned people for a long time, Mrs. Temmerman. This is the first time that the Ministers of Health and Justice have worked together for those interned to find solutions. In addition to the centres already planned, we have opened additional centres in Tournai and Bierbeek. In Wallonia and Zelzate we are working on the start-up of centres. There's a huge catch-up going on. For the first time in a very long time, Health and Justice Ministers come together to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u54	I know your government likes to refer to the past. This file has begun under Minister Onkelinx. As Minister of Health, she worked together with the then Minister of Justice. So don't tell me nothing happened in the past. What is happening now is the result of decisions taken at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u55	I can only confirm that the building was there, but that there were no funds available for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u56	Madam Minister, I would like to add that a great deal of effort is being made today, in cooperation with Justice. This government is committed to making real progress and is taking resources out of it. Electorally, it is never interesting to do so and, of course, we must now take account of the condemnation of the past. The internment law was adopted in the previous legislature. However, care for the interns is now being implemented. The current FPC has growing pains, which we have to acknowledge after a year. Of course, the Health Inspectorate has some comments. It is important to take that into account. We can't make the FPC a glorified prison. It's a care facility. If there is not one nurse per shift, questions may be asked. I therefore hope that this will be taken into account for the new FPC in Antwerp. There are two questions that haven't really been answered. There is also a follow-up committee to be set up following the implementation of the operating conditions. Has that committee come together yet? Are there any results of that? We can then conclude from that report whether the conditions laid down at the time are met. The second question was whether you had already discussed this with your Flemish colleague. There is clearly a difference in vision between you and the Health Inspectorate that is Flemish. How does that get back together? After all, I suspect that these same problems will continue to arise in the future. So I would have liked to have answered these two questions which were also in my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u57	Madam Secretary, I'll always say it when something's right. If further efforts are made for interned people, I can only welcome that. You have said something very important, namely that we are at the bottom in general in terms of medical care and standards. It's no different here. It is possible that the standard is respected in the FPC according to the letter of the law and is good, but not all vacancies have been filled while the standard is already at the bottom. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? Furthermore, not all therapeutic assistants have the right degree. That is also a problem if we put the principle of care and not the principle of monitoring first. I agree with Mr Van Hoof on the protocol agreement because I too remain hungry here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u58	Madam Minister, you are right to point out the usefulness of such a study on the framework within the public sector and within the private sector. I have a feeling you're better placed than I am to conduct such a study. I would therefore encourage you to do so. I think this could give rise to a very interesting political debate in Belgium. So perhaps you can make such an analysis effectively over the next few weeks and months. There is a clear cause and effect link between this framework and mortality. That's an important point. As far as the FPC is concerned, I would point out that this is precisely what this is about. This is very specific about the tension between the contractual work that was agreed and the work that is needed for the continuous quality. Surely you can't go around denying that there are money issues involved. If EUR 3.5 million is cheaper in his offer, where will that money be obtained? How can such an offer be made cheaper in the sector? This can only be done by saving on labour costs. That's what it's about. It concerns the question of whether such amounts could be saved from the framework in the care sector. You must intervene in your capacity as Minister. You say you had nothing to do with that. You have everything to do with it. You're answering that it's a coincidence at the FPC. Apparently, you've read a very optimistic report. We hear a very different sound. Madam Secretary, it is time to face reality. It's not because you're hoping that everything is going well, that it's actually going well. I think that is a problem in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u59	With your permission, we will return to question No. 10418 by Mrs Jiroflée, who came in a little late.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u60	Madam President, I apologise for being late, but I am trying to run from one committee to another, which is not always easy. Madam Secretary, recently you received a letter from Childproof. However, that is probably not so recent because there are so many questions that we are often a few weeks behind. That's neither your fault nor ours. Anyway, you received a letter from Childproof, in which the organisation advocates reducing the use of bisphenol A (BPA). BPA is a hormone-distorting substance used in food packaging. Childproof is particularly concerned about exposure to vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, young children and adolescents. The Dutch government has already announced its intention to reduce the use of BPA. In France, there is even a legal ban on BPA in food packaging. The European Commission is considering criteria on the use of BPA. Childproof believes that there are sufficient scientific reasons to take measures about the use of BPA in our country as well. The organisation fears that European directives are too long overdue. What is your response to writing Childproof? What is your position on this issue? Will you take measures to limit the use of BPA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u61	Madam President, I follow up on this issue in close cooperation with Minister Borsus, who is responsible for food safety. In our country, for several years, there has been a ban on the use of bisphenol A in products intended for children from zero to three years of age, in particular in suction bottles, sterilizers, prepared food containers, specifications and so on. This is stated in the Law of 4 September 2012 amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in the field of food and other products in order to prohibit bisphenol A in food packaging. In early 2015, the European Food Authority published an extensive study on the toxicity of bisphenol A and the extent to which we are exposed to it. This study concluded that there is no danger to the consumer, regardless of the population. As a conclusion from its study on the toxicity of bisphenol A, the Authority proposes to temporarily reduce the permissible daily intake from 50 mg per kg body weight per day to 4 mg per kg per day, pending the results of a longer-term study. As regards exposure to BPA, EFSA also took into account other sources such as food, cosmetics, dust, thermal paper, etc. The study shows that the intake is still three to five times lower than this already significantly reduced permissible daily intake. The European Commission is currently preparing an adaptation of the rules in force on the basis of EFSA's opinion. But the European rules apply only to plastic. Together with other Member States, we have put pressure on the European Commission to extend this. At the end of 2015, the Commission finally presented a proposal for a regulation, which sets lower limits for BPA in plastic and varnishes that come into contact with food. This text will be submitted to the competent Standing Committee, after which Member States will be able to make their views known in the Standing Committee on Plant, Animal, Food and Feed, Section Toxicological Safety of the Food Chain. A short title for a commission. Meanwhile, the ban on the use of bisphenol A for children from zero to three years of age remains natural and valid in Belgium as a precautionary measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u62	Madam Minister, on the one hand, I am pleased that you and other Member States have increased the pressure to achieve stricter standards in Europe. On the other hand, I am a little concerned when I hear you refer to EFSA and say that we did not talk about it more than a week ago with Minister Borsus, which they recommend for example in relation to satsumas, while so many other organisations and scientific institutions say the opposite or judge that much more strongly. I see that other countries have already taken their own measures. As far as such substances are concerned, we do not think that we can be strict enough, especially when it comes to very vulnerable people, such as children and pregnant women. Thank you in advance for the efforts you have already made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u63	Madam Chair, Minister, Friday, March 18 was the sixteenth Sleep Day. Sleep seems to be more and more disturbed among Belgians. If you know that screens (TV, computer, smartphone, etc.) do not do well with sleep by causing major troubles such as insomnia, more and more connected objects or applications offer to help sleep. For example, there are bracelets that analyze the circadian rhythm and wake you up at the best time of your sleep cycle, or objects that allow babies to wake up even before their nightmares begin. And yet sleep disorders prevent many people from functioning properly during the day. It is known: if you do not sleep well at night, it is difficult to concentrate, to work during the day. Moreover, we are not equal in the face of rest: some recover faster than others, some are more "morning", others "evening", some have greater sleep disorders. The mechanism should, however, be simple: our internal clock regulates our rhythm, especially according to light, but also according to other parameters such as work or social life. In Wallonia, a start-up developed an implant to treat sleep apnea, a serious disease that creates hypertension and causes cardiovascular disease that can lead to death. A technology that will return very invasive devices or breathing masks to the closet, which patients do not support for long anyway. Minister, do you have any statistics on the number of Belgians suffering from insomnia or, more generally, from sleep disorders? Are these disorders treated by the administration of sleeping drugs? What is the role of new technologies and tools such as smartphone applications or connected objects in the treatment of sleep disorders? Are these new technologies reliable or are they just gadgets? How many Belgians suffer from sleep apnea? Have you learned the technology developed by this Walloon start-up to treat sleep apnea?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u64	Mrs Cassart, thank you for your question about the sleep disorders of Belgians. We are well aware that sleep disorders affect a large number of people and have negative consequences that prevent them from functioning properly and hinder their quality of life. My teams are working to promote the rational use of psychoactive drugs. In fact, it is important to raise awareness among doctors so that these drugs are not prescribed too quickly or for too long a period of time. Non-drug alternatives exist and should, if symptomatology permits, be preferred. According to the 2013 Health Interview Survey conducted by the Scientific Institute of Public Health, sleep disorders affect 21% of the population aged 15 and over, or 24% of women and 18% of men. Sleep problems change significantly with age, as they are present in 15% of the youngest and affect not less than 29% of those aged 75 and over. According to the same survey, 13% of the population consumed a sedative in the two weeks preceding the interview. Between 2004 and 2013, the use of sedatives, either sleeping pills or tranquilizers, remained stable among the Flemish and even declined among the Brussels and Walloons. Based on the data available, we cannot determine the proportion of people with sleep disorders treated with sleeping pills. The technologies (smartphone, connected objects) used in the treatment of sleep disorders are new to the market. They can combine gaps or facilitate actions, but it is difficult to assess their reliability at present. I have not specifically learned about the technology developed by this start-up, but my teams will keep us informed about the relevant scientific advances in the treatment of sleep disorders. We are witnessing an explosion of initiatives around the world. As soon as we know about it, we'll get in touch with the initiators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for your full response and for your interest in this important issue. Indeed, as you pointed out, the consequences of sleep problems are considerable and daily. In addition, I thank you for keeping us informed of any initiatives that may be relevant and interesting in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u66	Minister, a few months ago, I asked you about prescriptions for eyeglasses and lenses issued by ophthalmologists. Indeed, on the order, which came into force on 1 December 2012, there was a section "pathology" which violated the principle of professional secrecy since this order passed into the hands of several persons and not only those of the patient and the doctor. You replied that, since the coming into force of 2012, the INAMI health care department had received different reactions from the field and that, as a result, the Commission of Agreements between opticians and insurers had appointed a working group to evaluate this requirement. Indeed, the issue of medical secrecy was one of the important points of the discussions. You know the details better than I do, but you told me, following my previous question, that an agreement had been reached and that it had resulted in the creation of three new prescriptions, one for glasses of glasses, one for contact lenses and the last for eye prostheses. The ophthalmologist will have to notify there the existence of a specific pathology for the prescription of certain materials, without however literally mentioning the pathology to which the patient is affected. Thus, the medical secret is preserved. The models were approved by Belgian ophthalmologists' bodies and by the Commission for Agreements between opticians and insurers. The entry into force was expected a few months after my previous question. Minister, can you confirm that the new regulations are already in force? Do you have a feedback from the industry and practitioners on this new regulation? If so, what does it show? Do you know ophthalmologists still issuing old prescriptions? Thank you for taking stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u67	Mrs Cassart, I would like to inform you that the three new models of prescription, i.e. Annexes 15bis, 15ter and 15quater, for the services of opticians (Article 30 of the Nomenclature) entered into force on 1 September 2015. These models cover eyeglasses, contact lenses and eye prostheses, respectively. A transitional period of four months has been foreseen during which the former Annex 15a could still be used. Since 1 January 2016, only the three new prescription models can be used in the framework of sickness and disability insurance. Currently, the INAMI health care department has received only one response from the field regarding Annex 15quater for eye prosthetics. At a specific meeting of the opticians working group, with opticians specialized in the field, the model of the prescription was discussed. The need to specify each time the type of prosthesis concerned was highlighted. The model will then be adapted in this direction. With regard to the use of the old Annex 15bis model by ophthalmologists, it is the responsibility of the insurers that deal with all individual files to verify compliance of the requirements with the regulations in force. For the time being, the INAMi Health Care Service has not received any information indicating any problems in this regard in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u68	Thank you for taking stock of this issue, which is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u69	Madam President, Madam Minister, 80 000 euros: this is the annual amount necessary to implant in the heart of acute heart patients a pump that circulates blood and considerably increases their survival expectations before a possible transplant. The experts' calculation estimates that the total cost is 260,000 euros for four years of life, compared to only 50,000 euros for treatment per medicine. These patients do not survive beyond the year, while others can wait much longer before a transplant. The experts, however, refuse to repay more pumps than they do today. They cite the additional costs that represent a very heavy expenditure on the health care system. From the point of view of the health economy, there are no arguments to support an extension of the reimbursement to more than 50 pumps per year. This could, in the long run, threaten the sustainability of health insurance. Minister, where is the consultation with health actors in this area today? Would this not merit an ethical and societal debate in Belgium? Have you identified any specific initiatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u70	Madam President, Minister, in a recent report, the KCE has assessed the appropriateness of placing and reimbursing a ventricular assistance device in patients who are not immediately involved in a transplant. As a reminder, of the 10,000 Belgians who learn each year that they are in cardiac decompensation, only fifty per year in severe and progressive decompensation can benefit from a refund of these devices. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read this report. How do you react to the conclusions made there, in particular the fact that there are no arguments in favour of an extension of their reimbursement? To the extent that, according to the KCE, cardiac assistance devices bring clear benefits such as an average lengthening of survival of four years or an improvement in the quality of life of patients, would you, for your part, be inclined to support an extension of the reimbursement to more than fifty ventricular assistance devices per year? Because of the high cost that such reimbursement would represent for social security, the KCE states that this subject would merit ethical and societal debate. What is your position in this regard? I thank you in advance for your answers, which unfortunately I will not be able to listen to, because other obligations await me. I'll take note of that, of course. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u71	Mr Thiéry and Mr Seneseal, in accordance with the new regulations on implants and invasive medical devices which came into force on 1 July 2014, the declaration of agreement on the intervention of compulsory health care insurance which intervenes in the cost of equipment for ventricular assistance, and which constitutes the framework for the reimbursement of the material in question, has been transformed into a limited clinical application. This application provides for a temporary refund in a strict context. The reimbursement provided for in this application for ventricular assistance equipment shall correspond to that provided for in the current declaration of agreement and shall enter into force by 1 July 2016 at the latest. This application will run until 31 December 2017. By that date at the latest, the Commission for Reimbursement of Implants and Invasive Medical Devices, known as CRIDMI, will review the terms of reimbursement. In the provisions of this application, it is also foreseen that the Belgian Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery will provide a report to CRIDMI by 1 January 2017. CRIDMI took note of the KCE report and has already invited it to comment on its report in more detail at a forthcoming meeting. The purpose of this KCE report was specifically to assess the cost-effectiveness of implantation of ventricular assistance equipment in patients who will never be included in the criteria for cardiac transplantation. This indication is referred to as destination therapy. Therefore, this KCE study concerns only a group of patients for whom there are currently no expected reimbursements because these are out of the criteria for cardiac transplants. CRIDMI assesses not only the possible revision of the indications, but also the adaptation of the maximum number of devices for which an annual refund is possible, as well as other possible changes in the conditions of reimbursement. The conclusions of the KCE report form part of the elements taken into account in the final report of the Belgian Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Other elements will also be taken into account, namely, what are the indications, what is the scope of this target group, what is the therapeutic added value for these patients and what are their social needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I therefore take it that you are in contact with the health actors to possibly review the situation and certainly the conditions for a possible enlargement of the refund in 2017. I also note that we will be waiting for a report by the specialists for 2017. Besides this, as I understand it, the KCE report concerns a small group of patients who are not in the criteria. This should be taken into account in this intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u73	Madam Minister, this question should have come before our discussion in committee, but that is usually the case with questions. Yesterday we discussed this matter in detail. The numbers are known and I will not repeat them here. The Inter-Mutualist Agency has good statistics on this. It doesn't look good, in the sense that the number of 17-year-olds with alcohol intoxication is increasing. So we are not making any progress. The problem is that now girls are also sick in the same bed and often end up in the emergency. This is taking on worrying proportions. In the IMA figures, this is also crazy, because the geographical distribution of alcohol intoxication in young people corresponds to the occurrence of alcohol-related cancers. That is a new fact that we have not actually discussed. To a previous question, you have already replied that the Inter-Ministerial Conference instructed the General Cell on Drugs Policy to draw up a global and integrated alcohol policy plan. You said that this would be done by October 2016. You also spoke at that time about pilot projects in different hospitals. Hence my next questions. Firstly, in view of our work in committee, is that date of October 2016 still valid? Secondly, can you say anything more about the pilot projects? What hospitals are we talking about? You were talking about four hospitals. Have the projects started yet? How long are they walking? Thirdly, do you have specific measures in mind, I suppose in cooperation with the Communities, to protect these young people and, above all, to deal with the increase in the number of girls? Finally, do the IMA figures correspond to the figures the Public Health Office has? I am particularly interested in the relationship between the number of young people and the geographical distribution of alcohol-related cancers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u74	Recent studies have highlighted once again the extent of the harmful use of alcohol and the social cost of alcohol in our society. It is indeed serious that more and more young people end up in the emergency services because of excessive alcohol consumption. My view is that only a comprehensive approach is efficient. This is therefore being worked on in the general drug policy cell. The working group has already met several times and is currently in the process of discussing this subject with several experts and stakeholders. In that discussion there are no taboos, nor are there any taboos about the share or contribution of the dispensing machines and the sale at night shops. Everything is considered in terms of efficiency, desirability and feasibility. Indeed, the timing for the adoption of this alcohol strategy remains October 2016. On the question of whether adequate investment was made in prevention, I refer to the recent analyses of public investment in the policy on illicit drugs, alcohol and psychoactive drugs. This shows that 1.2 percent of this budget is devoted to prevention, a competence of the Communities. So one euro per Belgian goes to prevention on alcohol, drugs and psychoactive medication together. This is also mentioned and will be taken into account in the alcohol policy working group. With regard to the IMA figures, I would like to point out that the methodology still has some limitations. In fact, they were confined to those young people who were taken into emergency care during a calendar year or were hospitalized for one night and in which the concentration of alcohol in the blood was determined the same day. The diagnosis shall not be taken into account when recording or the results of the analysis. I would therefore prefer to base myself on minimum hospital data from the FPS Public Health Data Management. We have the latest available data for 2013. We know the evolution from 2008 to 2013, of the number of days spent in a classical hospital and in day hospitals by patients aged 12 to 17 with a diagnosis of alcohol abuse. The emergency services or the paramedics will make the determination. Ambulans have also made findings without passing through the emergency services. A total of 486 recordings in 2013, a decrease compared to 2008 when there were 574. You asked for figures on the relationship between young people and the geographical distribution of alcohol-related cancers. Minimum hospital records include cancer codes and e-codes for secondary effects of alcohol. The link between the two cannot be established. It is therefore not possible to link these data. The pilot project Liason Alcohol is currently in four hospitals, namely the Saint Peter Hospital in Brussels, the CHR Citadelle in Liège, AZ Groeninge in Kortrijk and the CSF in Chimay. It's extended to eight hospitals. The four new ones are the UZ Gent, Hospital Oost-Limburg, Centre Jolimont and Hôpital de Marche-en-Famenne. The aim of this project is to raise awareness of patients' alcohol problems in hospitals, including by strengthening existing services with medical psychosocial support. This project is also integrated into a project on detection and short intervention for alcohol problems in patients in emergency services. The combination of these two projects seems to create a favourable dynamic and raise knowledge in hospitals with regard to a more appropriate approach to harmful alcohol consumption in patients and on emergency services in particular. I come to the question of the number of inspectors. The tobacco and alcohol plan I submitted to the government was included in the notifications last week. We strengthen the control service with 12 inspectors. As there is considerable synergy between controls on tobacco and alcohol, these 12 inspectors will also be involved in the fight against the sale of alcohol and spirits to young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u75	Madam Secretary, the results of these pilot projects in hospitals will indeed have to be included in your plan. I am certainly looking forward to that. How long are these pilot projects going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u76	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u77	Our country is still processing the attacks of 22 March. The wounds of the victims, aid workers, relatives and loved ones have yet to heal literally and figuratively. Trauma psychologist Erik de Soir suggested in some media that bringing victims and aid workers together should be given a place within the processing process. He suggested developing an online contact site where people who were closely involved in the attacks could make contact. Your administration rejected the proposal because patients are entitled to privacy. Both privacy and processing are important facets. We can certainly discuss the packaging, but the content does not seem to be simply rejected. It is possible to establish contact via an online registration, which can by definition be done by the victims and the aid workers who wish to do so on an entirely non-binding basis. What support and assistance can victims and aid workers count on in the coming period? What initiatives are already under way? Which one will you roll out? Eric de Soir's central message was bringing victims and aid workers together, for example through a special website. How do you feel about that idea? I can testify in person. My associates in our party offices have been helping victims far into the afternoon. Those girls are still in bad shape. They don't sleep well, they're emotional. Those people aren't trained to be nurses, but they've been through war struggles. They saw wounds they'd never seen before. In the meantime, they've been looking for victims themselves. There was also contact between a victim and one of my personal associates. Turns out it's healing. That's not obvious. They watched people die on the spot. If you do not want to take steps related to a special website, what alternative slopes do you offer to help workers or victims who do indicate that they need to get in touch with each other, in order to speed up the processing process?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u78	Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your questions. The attacks will continue for a very long time and have changed the lives of many people, not only of the victims and their families but also of the aid workers. That is why, immediately after the attacks, not only the medical intervention plan was launched, but also a psychosocial intervention plan. The aim of the plan is to organise psychosocial care for victims in the acute phase, for which the federal level of policy is competent, and also to organise follow-up and after-care, which is a federated competence. In this psychosocial care, our psychosocial managers' first choice has always been to bring victims and aid workers together at information meetings after the incident. That happens because they join Erik de Soir's theorem and also identify the needs. Those meetings offer the opportunity to answer questions, as well as to give a place to the events within the processing process. Important for these moments is the monitoring of the framework. They should not give rise to a new traumatic experience due to the possible presence of undesirable persons. We think of people who take photographs or come to see them just out of curiosity. In the case of smaller, closed disasters, the framework can easily be monitored, but in the case of larger, open disasters such as the attacks of 22 March, this is not always possible. For example, an estimated 6,000 people were already present at the airport at the time of the attack. I also read in the newspaper a testimony from a patient who called not to take photographs of him while he was badly wounded and burned on the ground, but they did. As a second choice, if an information moment and a moment in person is not possible, there is the possibility of creating an online forum, for example the type of forum as echoesonline.nl after the tsunami or flyrampoekraine.nl. Those slopes were investigated by my administration. This has led to the decision that there can be no reliable supply for the need after the attacks. What's important with that type of onlinefora? That is the access control, which is necessary to keep unwanted persons from that forum, persons looking for information. However, the specificity of the attacks of 22 March is such that we cannot even clearly define the target group. As I said, there were a lot of people at the airport and in the metro. Of those registered at the airport and the metro, we were able to identify only 3 800 people, while there were 6 000 people at the airport and the number in the metro is unknown to us. A lot of people have just run away, really run away. The question is how access to the forum can be regulated and serenity guaranteed if access control is not conclusive. There should therefore be a moderator seven out of seven days and twenty-four out of twenty-four hours. There should also be an editorial board to follow up on what is alive and to intervene where necessary, for example for people who no longer like it at all. Nor can it be guaranteed that these conditions will be fulfilled. That is why the administration has fallen back on a third choice, in particular the opening of a generic mailbox 22/03 in four languages, the three national languages and English, given the high number of foreigners. Through this mailbox, with respect for privacy and professional secrecy, they still try to provide answers to questions from both citizens and aid workers. In addition to this mailbox, the follow-up by the psychosocial managers is also agreed with the Department of Prevention and Protection at Work, the specific stress teams at the fire department and the police, as well as the federated service Victim Support, the CAW, Victim Treatment and the Justice Houses. On Easter Monday, my psychosocial managers identified 80 target groups and action points. They all follow them in the context of aftercare. About that mailbox I can tell you the following. Some victims thank their helpers and say that they are doing well, but that they do not want any further contact, because they are not ready or because that would stir up the emotions of that day too much. We must respect it if victims are grateful for the help provided, but we do not want any further contact. They don't want to see those aid workers at their bedside, not meet them. The families also play a role and they also have mixed feelings. Some family members prefer to know everything, others don't. It is a process of processing, which runs for everyone individually and with which we can experience different things, including family members of deceased victims. Sometimes these family members can only contact us long after the death in order, among other things, to inform about the circumstances. So questions continue to come and we try to deal with them very humanely and openly, always with respect for privacy and professional secrecy. That is a difficult balancing exercise for one piece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u79	Thank you for the clear answer. There was no indication from the media that solutions were being sought to deal with this. I understand the difficulty. It is true that the needs are very diverse. Some of the people who helped, they don't want contact with the victims. I know those who want to, but I don't. Someone who succeeded has said that it had a positive impact to know what the victim's condition is. That person had a burned arm, but is very active again. It helped get through the process. We must give both victims and aid workers the opportunity to deal with this. I can testify that people who have helped are sometimes in very bad shape and are not at work today. Hence the need to do so for more than a few months; the impact is enormous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u80	Because of the severity of the injuries and the fact that there are still so many victims in the burn centres, have amputations, are blind or semi-blind, one does not always get good news from the people who have helped. That's a whole process of processing. I understand, of course, that if anyone can say that he is well, that he has survived and can go for it and will have to process it, that is something different from the many people who still have very serious injuries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic415x.u81	It is true that these are complex situations that require personalized responses.
