ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u1	Minister, as you know, bpost allows organisations, associations and natural persons to design a stamp and order a number of copies of that stamp. It is very nice when one can personalize birth cards with one's own stamp. Associations also do that to make publicity for their business. The Flemish People's Movement also does that. That is a large, recognized movement that has been making stamps on the basis of its own designs for more than ten years, with its own message. That has always been approved so far. However, the most recent application of 23 November 2015 was refused by bpost because, contrary to the last ten years, stamps may not contain any religious, political, philosophical or ethnic elements. However, no issuing criteria are known. This is evident from previous questions in the Chamber of former colleague Miranda Van Eetvelde and in the Senate of Jan Loones. That this would suddenly be a problem is a strange turn of events. Bpost has a monopoly position and begins to distinguish between the message of one movement or the other. That's weird, and it's a disruption of operation. Moreover, it is not a smart commercial move to treat customers in this way. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have new rules or internal provisions been introduced in comparison to the past few years, when there were apparently no problems, which meant that the design of the FVO had to be refused? Is such approval or disapproval still determined by the board of directors of bpost on the advice of the philatelic committee? If so, what was the committee's advice or motivation in this case? How many designs of stamps have been rejected by bpost in the last ten years? What were the reasons for refusing those designs? From which organizations was their special design refused by bpost? Wouldn't it be more interesting if bpost were to act more like a commercial company and just treat everyone equally instead of judging political or philosophical ideas themselves? I would have no problem myself, for example, if the House of Man or the Humanist Movement also put their message on a stamp. I have no objection to such associations designing their own stamps. There is discussion of the extent to which there should be strict neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u2	Mr Dedecker, a distinction must be made between, on the one hand, the official stamps, which are issued by the King in accordance with the law of 21 March 1991, and the subject-matter of which are laid down annually in a royal decree on a proposal from the management bodies of bpost advised by the philatelic commission and, on the other hand, MyStamp, a commercial product of bpost which gives individuals, companies, associations and organisations the opportunity to use personalised stamps. These seals must comply with the general conditions laid down for this product. The seal we are talking about here is a MyStamp stamp, requested by the Flemish People's Movement. The MyStamp stamp was refused by the service concerned on the basis of the general terms and conditions which state that the stamps may not contain elements of religious, political, philosophical or ethnic nature. Bpost considered that the use of a completely black Flemish Lion and the reference to independence is a clear political position. Over the past ten years, some 500 applications for a MyStamp stamp have been refused on the basis of the general terms and conditions. This mainly concerned applications from private individuals. If you say that bpost has a monopoly in that area, that is not entirely correct. There is another postal operator who also offers this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that bpost does not have a monopoly, but is a dominant operator in that respect. I do not see any reason why we want to make a distinction politically. I have no objection to an association such as the Humanist Covenant or anyone who sends a similar philosophical message. It's also a strange situation. They've been using a design with the flag of the movement for ten years. That is indeed a black yellow flag and not a black yellow red flag. Now that's a problem. I think it is a sad thing that people thought they should change course here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I have learned that the European Commission has the wish to establish the portability of digital content within a year. With the entry into force of this provision, Europeans will be able to benefit from their subscriptions to the best conditions during stays abroad. This is a good thing since many people spend an average of a few days a month in another EU country. This figure is steadily increasing. The portability system for digital content is based on the concept of the usual place of residence. However, there are some doubts about the proposed system. Minister, to avoid abuse, who would be responsible for identifying the subscriber's country of residence? How can consumers' data be verified while respecting their privacy, which is important?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, on 9 December 2015 the European Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation to ensure the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market. This proposal will continue to be the subject of discussions and consultations that will clarify and refine the text before its final adoption. As regards the concept of country of residence, Article 2C of the proposal defines the Member State of residence as the Member State in which the subscriber has his or her habitual residence. With regard to the identification of this country of habitual residence and respect for privacy, I refer you to Articles 5.2 and 6 of the proposal. Article 5.2 provides that entitled persons may request that proportionate technical means be used by the service provider to verify that cross-border portability is provided in accordance with the conditions of the Regulation. Privacy directives must be followed in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will certainly still have outstanding issues, but we will see this as implementation proceeds. I believe that the European Commission will make great progress. We'll have to find out within six or seven months. I will therefore come back to the matter, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u7	Minister, on 22 December, apparently as a Christmas present, BIPT reported the results of the analysis of universal service in the telecoms market. For the geographic element of universal service, i.e. offering a functional internet connection of 1 megabit per second at a fixed location, it was examined which homes cannot be connected to the fixed network of Proximus, the cable network of a competitor or, outside the technical area of the fixed networks, a mobile network of 3G or 4G of one of the three operators. By combining the different technologies in this way, one finds a much smaller white area, i.e. an area that is not covered. The obligation to include the eligibility condition in Mobistar's 800 Megahertz licence, which means that priority areas must first be covered by November, i.e. in ten months' time, has reduced the number of homes that cannot in any way affect the functional Internet connection. According to BIPT, they're barely 20 homes. There seems to be a lot of legislation on this. First of all, in which city are the 20 addresses? Are those specific municipalities with problems? Secondly, have you heard a specific question from the residents of those twenty addresses for connection to the Internet? If these residents are not interested, should specific legislation or procedure be used? Thirdly, I myself proposed it in the previous legislature, but now the BIPT also proposes to move away from the allocation to one operator to complete the geographical element of universal service throughout the territory. Then there is only one or one should already be working with complex constructions of consortia and that would be a bad thing, because then there is no competition, with all the consequences of that including high prices. It is now possible to open an invitation to tender for each of the 20 addresses separately, if there is indeed a demand for them. What is your position on the BIPT proposal? In what time can we expect reform in this direction if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u8	First of all, I would like to clarify that the addresses that do not have a fixed Internet connection. No sufficient mobile speed was measured outdoors. The number of houses without functional internet access will be higher, as indoor house cover is worse. The vast majority of these addresses are located in the 60 municipalities where Mobistar is legally obliged to invest as a priority. This will allow those addresses to access functional internet via mobile technology by 30 November 2016. A number of addresses are located in Gedinne and Viroinval, two municipalities not listed in the 2013 Royal Decree. I have no knowledge of any question of functional Internet access relating to the applicant's address. My services are working on a legislative amendment proposal that will be discussed in the government in the coming months. It will propose a mix of technologies to achieve universal functional internet access. If you're asking me if the residents are asking for access, maybe they're not asking for it today. However, the house can be sold, after which the buyer may want to. I therefore believe that it would be difficult to make that distinction now. It is an exercise to provide functional internet access at those locations, regardless of whether they are asking today or not. What we are not asking for today can be asked tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. First of all, your statement that indoor coverage is more problematic than the country house is, of course, obvious. However, there are also solutions to this. One can, for example, provide a Wi-Fi hotspot connected to an outdoor antenna connected to the 3G or 4G network. So there are solutions to provide internet access inside if there is outdoor coverage. This means that the problems can be limited to the 20 homes. It may also be interesting to see to what extent no separate tender can be made for the two municipalities under the new licences, which will soon be distributed. Your last statement, namely that we need to provide Internet access there at the moment, even though the residents are not asking for it, seems to me to be very crazy. It is now, in advance, that a very complex procedure is being initiated without any question. We don't know what the status of coverage will be in two or three years. If the house is sold in five years and the new residents are interested, then the cover may already be available. It is therefore in fact a bit crazy to be pro-actively spending money on studies and invitations to tender in order to provide cover in those few places, when there is actually no real demand for it. That sounds like a little money throwing to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u10	To clarify, it is about the possibility of doing so. I believe that we should offer the opportunity to do so. After all, the question that is not there today can be there tomorrow. Of course I agree with you, we should not throw money today if the question is not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u11	Thank you. That nuance is indeed important. If there is a demand for it, one must of course be able to contact the BIPT with the request to initiate a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u12	Mr.President, Minister, as part of the evaluation and modernization of the postal law, the prospect of reducing the daily shift of the factor would be under consideration by your office, according to the press of December 30, 2015. This decrease would be effective from 2019 onwards. It is true that different surveys carried out by or for the IBPT show that the needs of customers, both businesses and individuals, for postal services are changing. Having said that, it is important, in our view, to distinguish between the different categories of population concerned and what is purely commercial from what is part of the public service. Indeed, as stipulated in the new management contract between the federal state and bpost, the factor fulfils an important social role, especially vis-à-vis older, more disadvantaged or inhabitants of remote municipalities. This social role is an integral part of a high-quality public service, which cannot be braced for short-term profitability or so-called modernisation. Finally, since the satisfaction rate of bpost clients reached its highest level in 2014, we are all the more surprised that you imagined taking measures to reduce the quality of service to our citizens. Minister, as part of the postal law reform, are you considering reducing the daily passage of factors? If so, what are the formulas? Twice a week or only depending on the quantity of mail to be delivered? In redefining the concept of universal service, do you intend to maintain the obligations related to the social role of the factor? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u13	Mr President, Minister, you have stated that you want to amend the "post legislation as a whole" and you are therefore relying on the report published by the IBPT. In this report, four things attract our attention. Firstly, the desire to remove the conditions of licence for private operators – which would allow them no longer to have to cover at least 80% of the territory, to lift and distribute mail at least twice a week and to apply tariff uniformity throughout the territory. Secondly, the desire to remove bulk mail from the universal service. This would allow private operators to focus only on the largest customers in the postal market. Thirdly, the intention to abolish the mechanism aimed at preventing too much increase in the prices of postal products. Fourthly, the desire to abolish postal offices again by reducing their number to 589, compared with 650 at present. We are concerned about these elements. This is contrary to the IBPT's study of the needs of users, who want to go in exactly the opposite direction. Moreover, this reform concerns private operators, allowing them to concentrate on the most profitable parts of the market by leaving what is less to bpost. Minister, what is the status of your proposed reform of postal legislation? Do you not think that the conditions of licence must be maintained in order to ensure a service to the public accessible to all? Do you not think that private operators may focus only on the most profitable parts of the postal market, to the detriment of other users but also by threatening bpost? The bpost management always says that we have to save bpost from other operators, but here we will strengthen others to the detriment of bpost. Finally, do you plan to reduce the price of the stamp, since this is the first user requirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two questions are entirely speculative. You rely on what the IBPT reports from a study. It is not because a study says something that I am bound by its conclusions. On the political side, we will make our choices. But going to speculate based on that, it's still a little surprising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u15	Hence the question!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u16	That's what I'm saying: it's pure speculation, what you're saying! In relation to specific issues, the social role of the factor is not part of the universal service. It is one of the services of general economic interest that have been allocated to bpost under the Sixth Management Contract. The latter has just been approved. The terms and conditions have not changed from the previous version. To say that in management contracts, we are taking some direction that would be different than what my predecessor said, is not correct. In fact, in this area, the sixth management contract is in line with the fifth. In my policy note of November 2015, I announced a new postal law which must, among other things, provide a modern interpretation of the concept of universal service so that everyone can participate fully in society, regardless of their place of residence or their social origin. In this regard, I have announced that I will take into account the changing needs of postal users, the changing trends in the postal sector and the cost of universal service. Technical work in this area is under way within the government and I intend to submit all proposals to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. Once approved by the government, I will be pleased to present them to you in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I come back to an article in the newspaper Le Soir of November 30, 2015, which referred to a discussion with your firm and in which your firm replied: "We are thinking about it." So I'm not making up anything. We're more than just speculation. Apparently, things are on the table and in reflection. That's the reason for my question. I hear your answer. My question was not about the sixth management contract because we discussed it here in the Infrastructure Committee and, in fact, it fulfils the same obligations as the fifth. It was more related to the future and this new postal offer that you announced. Moreover, according to rumours, the frequency of passing the daily factor would be called into question, which would have been confirmed by your firm at the end of 2015. So we're not in the most complete imagination. We're based on some things. That is why, today, I wanted to have confirmation or an infirmation. Since I did not obtain this information, I will certainly come back very soon on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u18	Minister, I take note of your answer, which is to say: "Circulate, there is nothing to see! I am working on my projects, which I will present to you in due course, after submitting them to the Council of Ministers." Perhaps you will overturn my claims, but I simply note that you announced that you would rely on the IBPT report. Even if you don't fully appropriate it, you abound rather in its sense. That is what we are concerned about, as the tracks explored by the Institute run counter to the needs and opinions of the users he himself communicated. This is a real contradiction. In any case, I take note of your lack of response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Denis Ducarme's 8211 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u20	Mr President, Minister, the fight against arms trafficking is one of the key elements of a comprehensive strategy to combat terrorism. According to various sources, it seems that it is very easy to obtain weapons of war abroad - the case of Slovakia is often cited - and to have them delivered by simple postal parcel in Belgium. I don't know if it's easy, but from time to time, such cases are pinned by the press. I remember in particular a case at the Charleroi postal sorting centre a few months ago. Since these weapons seem to transit or arrive in Belgium from abroad via bpost, what is the bpost strategy to try to detect and prevent this arms trafficking? What are the contacts and links with the customs service in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u21	Mr President, it is necessary to distinguish between shipments from other Member States of the European Union and shipments from countries outside the Union. Shipments from other EU Member States are covered by the principle of free movement of goods and are not systematically monitored. At the request of the police or customs authorities, some countries can be targeted and monitored closely. All consignments from outside the Union will be subject to physical control. Shipments are systematically opened and checked by bpost. As far as the procedure is concerned, if a consignment contains weapons or components of weapons, it is set aside for customs. They will eventually determine whether it concerns a prohibited weapon. In this case, the weapon is seized by customs. In the case of an authorized weapon, bpost contacts the recipient in order to obtain more information on the invoice, proof of payment and, if necessary, the authorization of detention. The shipment, import declaration and documents received will then be submitted to Customs for approval. After approval, the shipment is delivered to the customer. All shipments destined for export are examined. For air transport, screening is carried out by means of X-rays. For road transport, consignments are checked by dogs specialized in the search for explosives. Questions about any adjustment to the policy regarding incoming shipments, the nature or number of seized goods should be addressed to the Minister of Security and Interior or the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the European area is concerned, I understand that there is systematic control. In writing, I also asked you for the number of positive controls exercised. Do you have these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u23	We'll try to find them for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u24	You say that within the European Union, there is no systematic control, but a lot of spot checks. How does this work in practice? Have the recent attacks with the involvement of arms trafficking given rise to any particular initiative, on your part or on the part of bposts? Has there been any reinforcement since those attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u25	It seems to me that these are data that should not be shared. I don't have them myself either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u26	Beyond concrete information, in general, has there been any particular impetus? If you prefer, I can come back with a specific question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u27	I think this is a question for the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Finance, but not for bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u28	Last July, Mr. Geens told us that he was putting in place interdepartmental coordination. I guess your department must be part of it. It was in that capacity that I asked the question. But I can come back with a more specific question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, we have conducted an internal analysis and we have realized that twenty-three Walloon municipalities, mainly located in the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg, do not currently have ATMs open from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. We have not yet done a precise survey in Flanders, but such a situation must certainly also occur in certain Flemish communes. The ability of every citizen to withdraw cash from his or her bank account at a reasonable distance is one of the basic services that we believe must be provided to every citizen. The reason for the deficit in ATMs is the disinvestment of banks and the decrease in the number of banking agencies. Indeed, banks close local agencies, restructure their networks and, as a result, remove the least profitable agencies and related ATMs. It is mainly the small rural communes that make the cost of this movement. Such a situation is not acceptable because it does not ensure equality between citizens. The basic services we use every day must be accessible throughout the country. Especially since our citizens are large users of ATMs. According to a recent European study, we are the second European user, just after the Irish. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen group, we therefore believe that bpost, which is obliged by the management contract which has just been extended to have a post office in the territory of each municipality, is all appropriate to fulfil this public service mission. In addition to the requirement of a minimum of 350 ATMs throughout Belgium, we would therefore like to add to the new management contract the obligation to equip the post offices with an ATM which can be accessed between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. when there is no other one in the municipality. Minister, can you confirm the number of municipalities throughout Belgium that do not have an ATM from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., all banking networks combined? What is the cost of installing an ATM from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. in an existing post office? Would you agree to add an amendment to the new bpost management contract with the obligation to equip post offices with an ATM, which is available between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., when there is no other one in the municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u30	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, according to my information, there has been no official list of ATMs, particularly for those available between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. In order to execute the management contract, bpost periodically checks the information relating to ATMs available to the public via the banks' websites. The management contract provides that bpost undertakes to maintain at least 350 ticket distributors in post offices and to ensure the presence of this equipment in all municipalities where this service is not currently offered by another financial institution. Next, bpost will make every effort to ensure that ticket distributors are accessible on extended time zones, outside post office hours, seven days a week. The aim is to achieve at least 80% of these distributors. As of December 31, 2015, the bpost network consists of 494 ATMs, 88% of which are accessible from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week. The installation of such a device is divided into two main parts: its cost as such and the costs of infrastructure and installation, ranging from EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000. The ATM becomes profitable only when 3,000 withdrawals per month are made. For each file, bpost seeks to favour the installation of ticket distributors also available outside office hours. However, this is not always possible for reasons of infrastructure: no space for opening areas between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m., room reserved for the public too small, impossibility of installing an ATM outside, etc. For municipalities that still have to be equipped with an ATM, bpost will be forced, in most cases, to install an ATM in a space that is not one of its offices. This will result in much higher installation and operating costs. In addition, thirty-one municipalities have only vending machines for bpost banknotes. Twenty of them are equipped with an accessible distributor from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week. I will send you the list, as well as the list of the other 11 communes that are equipped with an ATM only available during post office hours. There are still eleven municipalities to be equipped: Ramillies, Baelen, Lincent, Tinlot, Juprelle, Lontzen, Daverdisse, Herbeumont, Meix-devant-Virton, Érezée and Houyet. The programme is expected to be completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u31	Minister, thank you. I'll have two reactions. First, I note that the possibility of adding this option to the management contract is not being considered. We are therefore not going to move towards an obligation to install an ATM when there is no other one in the municipality, all networks combined. Secondly, I will look at the list carefully. You're talking about an investment of between 50,000 and 100,000 euros for the construction of a new ATM. We are talking about ten or fifteen communes in Belgium; this does not seem to us to be totally insurmountable in order to increase the quality of public service. I will certainly come back to this matter in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u32	Mr President, Minister, Proximus is a particularly profitable public company that made 654 million euros of net profits in 2014 and 9.5 billion euros of profits in the last ten years. Every quarter, the figures are impressive. The financial results are extraordinary. Despite the extraordinary results of Proximus, the pressure is ongoing to reduce staff and payroll more and more, with a succession of large-scale social plans. Staff increased from 26,000 full-time equivalents in 1995 to 13,964 today. A decrease is still expected. It has just been learned that management is currently looking for a solution to further reduce the workforce of 3000 workers in the future. Thus, one of the largest employers in the country is about to separate thousands of workers. Not to mention the public services - SNCB, SPF, army - where thousands of jobs are destined to disappear, according to the government. The aim is not only to reduce staff, it is also very clearly to exclude statutory staff, considered by management to be less flexible and more expensive but also often unionized proactive. Minister, do you find it normal that a company that realizes profits - and what profits! - plans to lay off more staff? This question can be asked both for the private sector and for a semi-private, semi-public company. Does this not, instead, indicate the need to maintain the public nature of a business? Is that consistent with the policy of a government shouting: "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!"? What are the numbers of departures targeted and the conditions envisaged by management and government? After the departure of statutory staff, is Proximus management considering rehiring contractors to replace statutory staff or statutory staff to replace statutory staff? If an agreement has been reached between the trade unions and the management of Proximus, do you undertake to respect its content?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u33	Mr President, it has indeed been learned that negotiations have begun at Proximus concerning two new social plans and potentially involving the early departure of 3,000 people. According to the press, these plans should enable the managing director, Dominique Leroy, to achieve one of the major objectives of his mandate: to reduce the payroll significantly, while removing as many statutory employees as possible from the company as they consider less flexible and therefore more costly. As a result, 4800 employees in September 2015 would still account for 35% of the workforce of the Proximus public enterprise. The first plan, of limited scope, concerns staff aged 58 and over, in particular employees for whom retraining has not been possible. The second, which concerns the more than 60-year-olds, of a larger scale, would span several years and could involve more than 3000 persons, the vast majority of whom are statutory staff. It would take the form of a pre-pension leave during which the salary would be equal to 75 per cent of the salary up to the pension. One of the conditions is to have reached the age of 55 on 31 December, which would therefore affect 600 to 700 people in 2016, according to the first figures available. According to the information on the subject, one of the nodes of the problem would be the content of the collective agreement that is being negotiated in parallel. The mobility and flexibility of employees would appear to be on the table. Trade unions would also require that the years prior to retirement be fully recorded in the pension calculation. In this difficult context of downsizing in an efficient and cost-effective public enterprise, I would like to ask you a few questions. We had enough of last year's discussions on the bill that opened up the privatization of Proximus and bpost, how well Proximus was a well-functioning and profitable company. Proximus being a beneficiary company, even if the planned departures are voluntary, it remains surprising that so many employees are pushed out. Could you give us a detailed explanation of the economic reasons for these two plans? Is it just a question of costs as we understand it when reading the specialized press? When we debated the law opening up the privatisation of Proximus and bpost, you almost swore to us that there was no project or concrete intention to sell the telecom operator. Today, we can't help but think that we're dressing the bride. We are separating older statutory employees and, according to the vocabulary used, "costful", according to management's reasoning. There are still objectives behind this set of restructurings. What is the medium-term plan for Proximus? What partnerships are envisaged as a result of these restructurings announced as having to be completed by spring or summer? What will be the next step? We're clearly dressing the bride Proximus to privatize her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u34	Mr Van Hees, first of all, you confuse a public enterprise with an administration. You probably don't like it being a business that operates independently. You would probably like to see much more political involvement. That is not my intention at all. I have made this very clear. Private companies serve their customers very well in this sector, but I have no intention of interfering with Proximus's operational choices. I give part of the answer in Dutch, because there was also a question from Peter De Roover. I have said from the outset that the company itself must bear the cost of any restructuring. That position was also agreed by the entire nuclear cabinet. In the plan ahead, this is the case and all financial costs related to betting and employers' contributions for the pension are borne by Proximus. The invoice will absolutely not be passed on to society. This plan will allow Proximus to align the total cost of work with that of its competitors in order to ensure the sustainability of the company. It should be noted that wages are much higher than those in other comparable companies. Proximus has been taking several initiatives for a long time to use employees in the future. Many employees have already used the internal mobility process to apply for new job opportunities created by the launch of new products, services and processes or created by the departure of other colleagues. Employees who have recently lost their jobs and have the required skills are given priority in this selection. In addition, Proximus is taking the necessary steps to entrust certain activities that were previously outsourced to internal collaborators in the future. This internal mobility is, of course, accompanied by the required training. In addition, Proximus, in collaboration with AXA, KBC and Hazelheartwood, also allows employees in change to apply for an open position in another company. Finally, it is possible for employees undergoing retraining to return to employment in other public bodies, such as Fedasil. Through an external mobility board, these people are informed about the vacant functions outside. Negotiations are under way with professional and representative organisations to increase mobility within the company. The plan, which is a Proximus plan itself, is absolutely independent of the amendment of the Law of 21 March 1991, which aims to create a level playing field for public undertakings operating in competitive sectors. Most of the provisions of that law relate to corporate governance and matters relating to operationality. The legal barrier of 50% plus a share was indeed removed, so that the government could possibly lower its participation below that limit. You keep speculating on that point. I stand by the position that I explained in the discussion of the law. You can make all the speculations you want about that. I'm just telling you that these two things are completely separate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to a question about a company that is largely still in the hands of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers, which obviously do not surprise me. I would like to return to two points in particular. You're talking about sustainability, higher salary costs in the competitive environment that Proximus is dealing with. That was the subject of my first question, which you did not fully answer. It is a business that works and that, by your own admission, is competitive, realizes profits and is profitable. It works well, from a technological and competitive point of view, within its current environment. It is surprising that the government is about to give its approval to such a plan of departure for a few hundred or even a few thousand employees. I mean, I don't think we're busy speculating. As soon as we try to find out more about your intentions, you're talking about speculation. I take note again. Any wise and independent observer sees the sequence of events well. You don't have to have a PhD in economics to understand the issue!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u37	Minister, I understand that you want to leave management autonomy to companies like Proximus. I just remind you that, until further notice, the state is still a shareholder of Proximus. Private shareholders make their voices heard in the companies of which they are shareholders. Albert Brother, even though he owns only 10% of the shares of a multinational like Total, makes his voice and his wishes heard well. I note that for the State, this is not the case. What is clear in your answer is that we want to make the bride even more beautiful so that we can privatize even more easily. It is a well-known process of socialization of losses and privatization of profits. When we know that this recipient company will further reduce its employment, we wonder if this government is the government of the "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" Or the "Profits! Enjoy! Enjoy!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u38	As a shareholder, we are being heard in the general assembly. That's how it is in all societies. Here too. We speak at the general meeting. There is no other way to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u39	In the Netherlands, Minister, research shows that in a feature film and series that is illegal in every 12 households, Popcorn Time is used to watch films and series on a regular basis. With this, the video-on-demand service in the Netherlands is still the largest, after the legal providers, namely Netflix and Ziggo On Demand. Popcorn Time also knows many supporters. In Denmark, a code of conduct has been concluded between ICPs and rightholders in which the participating parties will promote a legitimate offer and will delete any direct or indirect association with the illegal offer, for example through advertisements, which are still seen here and there. Such an agreement also exists in Germany and has the modalities and procedures to be followed in order to obtain personal data from infringers. You have also spoken a number of times in the past about your fight against Popcorn Time. I remember a number of headlines and you announced in your digital plan that you would like to work from improving the procedure to bringing down or making websites with protected material inaccessible, as well as addressing the distributors of that material. I have the following questions. What additional initiatives have you taken since these announcements to bring down services such as Popcorn Time and its distributors? How do you intend to arm yourself against new initiatives such as THIS is TV, where you sell legal hardware, but with almost exclusively the aim of viewing Popcorn Time or illegal content? To what extent are you done with the framework to remove or block illegal content on the internet much faster? For seasoned internet users, the current DNS blockage is not sufficient and far too easy to circumvent, especially when it comes to content that one does want to view, even though it is illegal. It is even a great incentive to bypass that blockade and thus to get rid of all the other protective equipment offered by the DNS blockade. The Sandvine report in the US shows that today 70% of Internet traffic comes from legal streaming, while Bittorrent, the protocol that is not used exclusively, but very much, for the distribution of protected material, also uses Popcorn Time, which accounts for only 5% of Internet traffic. Apparently, people are so busy watching through Netflix that they don't have time to watch through Popcorn Time anymore. There we see the success of the legal offer. The solution to tackle the illegal offer will therefore also be partly to raise awareness and promote the legal offer. What are your views on initiatives such as those in Denmark and Germany? Finally, how do you see the approach of users and distributors of illegal content? You announced earlier, in 2015, that you would come forward with guidelines. How far will you go in there? Is it only a matter of sensitisation or is there going to be a tough approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u40	Mr Dedecker, first of all, I can say that there is currently a consultation at European level on the enforcement of intellectual property rights on the Internet. One of the questions being examined is whether more clarification is necessary with regard to intermediaries whose services are used to infringe intellectual property rights. Of course, we are closely following these developments, which does not prevent us from considering at Belgian level a balanced notice and action procedure for infringements committed on the Internet. As regards new initiatives, such as this is TV, Article 11.291 of the Economic Law Code provides for a criminal penalty for persons providing services of limited commercial purpose or use, in addition to circumventing the protection of an effective technical facility. In addition, there are well-known legal provisions that allow action to be taken against intermediaries whose services are used to infringe an intellectual property right. I believe that this is a balanced framework, and I must point out that it is obviously not possible to make a regulatory statement on all possible factual situations. Furthermore, I fully agree with you that the solution to illegal use lies to a large extent in strengthening legal supply and in sensitisation. Of course, I can only welcome the fact that right holders and Internet service providers themselves reach an agreement on this issue. I think such initiatives should be encouraged. This aspect is also addressed in the European consultation. With regard to the approach of users and distributors of illegal content, I can refer to the guidelines that emerged from the discussion in the Intellectual Property Council on this subject and which I share. One of these lines of action is that priority should be given to combating manifestly illegal large-scale infringements. With regard to consumers, I believe that a pedagogical approach, for example in the form of warnings, should be preferred to a general repressive approach, which the Council does not consider recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, especially with regard to clarifying the repressive approach. Of course, a distinction should be made between the downloader and the uploader, which actively distributes and is at the source of infringements. One may go against the latter a little harder than against the user. Balanced notice and action is indeed very important, with respect for and protection of the hosting provider so that he should not go into the slightest complaint on slippery ice and take action where he is no longer protected from complaints from his own customers. That would be a problem. As a second point, you cite an agreement from the bottom up through consultation between ICPs and rightholders. That would indeed be best, but I fear that this is still problematic in Belgium at the moment. The gap is still quite large, not much progress has been made on this issue. Therefore, given your competence as a Digital Agenda, I think you are the perfect person to take a number of steps forward and take initiatives to close the gap between the two groups, so that we can come to a good framework where we can enjoy much more legal content than we are today, while at the same time safeguarding the interests of both parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I once questioned you, in May 2015, about the possibilities of the universal femtocell, to guarantee mobile communications in industrial buildings or in all buildings. In this way, it is not limited to strengthening the network of a single operator, but also provides a solution for all networks. In this case, not only the own employees who have a company subscription with one operator can enjoy better coverage or coverage tout court. Temporary employees, consultants, visitors, customers and others can also enjoy it. Moreover, with an operator-dependent solution, there is a competition problem in the business market. One then depends on one operator. In order to change operators at a later stage, this means that a whole technical installation needs to be adapted, resulting in a serious cost and a serious threshold. That's why I'm pleading for an operator-independent solution. In the past, however, it has unfortunately been necessary to reply to that argument that there is no benchmark on how that problem is addressed abroad today. However, you would take the suggestion to heart and look at it with the BIPT. Sensitisation of the construction sector and building managers for the use of universal femtocells instead of operator-dependent solutions or leaving the problem to tenants seems necessary. It is clear that in the case of new construction or renovation, installation costs will be lowest. It is therefore better to be proactive or preventive in order to avoid problems later on. Cooperation between operators can, of course, also lead to a reduction in costs. We note this today in the legislation on the sharing of masts. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, what did your consultation with the BIPT produce in this respect? Secondly, to what extent have you already consulted the Regions on the subject? What is the outcome of this consultation? Thirdly, what opportunities do you see in sensitising real-state managers and the construction sector? What initiatives have you already taken in this respect? Will the BIPT take action in this area? Fourthly, to what extent are there possibilities to impose the use of shared operator-independent amplifiers or universal femtocells through the legal provisions on the sharing of masts and infrastructures instead of operator-dependent solutions in buildings, specifically in office buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u43	Mr Dedecker, the BIPT launched a consultation on 27 October to obtain the opinion of stakeholders in order to stimulate indoor coverage. The BIPT is currently processing the results of the consultation to consult recommendations. The BIPT has not been consulted with the Regions. It is appropriate to plan the passive infrastructure, cables, connectors and connection points for indoor coverage as early as the design phase of new buildings. The construction of such an infrastructure requires more specialised knowledge than the propagation of radio waves. According to their consultation response, architects and construction firms often do not have that knowledge. It will now be examined how best to sensitise architects and builders. On the basis of the telecom law, BIPT may require any owner or operator of indoor cabling to agree to reasonable access requests if the duplication of cabling proves economically inefficient or physically impossible. Operator independent repeaters are currently not allowed in Belgium. Femtocells on the market in Belgium are independent operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u44	In your opinion, therefore, Mr Minister, an operator-independent femtocell or amplifier is not allowed in Belgium. I see a legislative problem there. In consultation with the operators, we must consider whether we can provide a solution to this problem, so that such an infrastructure could be installed. This must of course be done in consultation with the operators, in such a way that the infrastructure can be easily reused at a later switch from operator. We must create a framework that is also economically viable for building owners and owners of buildings as well as for the landlords of office buildings. If the legal framework stands in the way, then we must adapt it. I propose that we hold a consultation on this matter. Just as access to indoor cabling can be required, we must also look at this for the active infrastructures. At the very least, we must remove the legislative thresholds. I look forward to discussing this with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in your answer to my written question on the remuneration of ancillary factors, you have neither confirmed nor reversed the amount I indicated, that is, a gross salary at the end of your career of 1,743 euros and you felt that their remuneration was very "correct". Your response, which has been widely relayed in the media, shocked many postal workers. Let me tell you. This is understandable, especially since it is known that the CEO of bpost earns twenty times the salary of a factor regardless of its variable remuneration and that the shareholders have been particularly spoiled. Over the past five years, the dividends paid have amounted to EUR 1,368 billion. This is how we realize that the only ones who do not benefit from it are factors and users. Minister, would you like to apologize to the auxiliary factors shocked by your remarks? If you find it exaggerated, you can always use the dedicated formula, namely: "If my remarks shocked some, I can understand it." Perhaps this would be better. Do you not think, given the profitability and the dividends paid each year by the postal company, that it would be entirely possible to increase the salary of the factors and understatuts that are part of the staff? Do you not think that such a difference between the lowest salaries and the CEO's salary is exaggerated? Should we not therefore, as is the case in some countries, set a scale between the two, saying that the gap between the lowest wage and the highest wage should not exceed a particular multiplier? Finally, in response to my written question, you said that bpost was based on a study claiming that the salary of the postal workers was comparable to that of other workers performing the same type of work. Could we have access to this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u46	Mr. Van Hees, I've read your article. It's important to stay right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u47	Minister, I was relaying your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u48	Yes, in this case, my remarks should not be extracted from their context. I said that the salary you are talking about is quite comparable to that which pays for similar functions in neighbouring sectors. You make me say that it is correct and comparable to other wages. But that is not what I said. I said that, for this kind of function, it was almost identical to the one that exists in the private sector. You persist in considering bpost as an administration, where politics can play a role. However, this is not the case: it is an autonomous public undertaking which is active in an increasingly competitive sector gradually moving towards packages, as the volume of mail is decreasing. I know you'd like to see no technological change and everything left unchanged, but that's not how it happens. The needs of consumers are changing, as is the business. Today, bpost is a strong postal company, and even one of the best in Europe – thanks to all the workers it employs as well as management. In your article, which I read correctly, you claim that I have amended the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u49	This is a press article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u50	Yes, but let's say it's more or less your personal Pravda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u51	The journalists did not contact me; they relied solely on your answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u52	All right? Let's read this article anyway! Mr Van Hees, you are quoted in this article and you say that I would have changed the law to increase the CEO's salary. That's totally wrong! We have to stay serious! In the previous law, there were no salary limits for OCEs. Nothing has changed from that. You also said that I would have said that the CEO's salary was not enough. I never said that I considered that the CEO's salary was not enough, on the contrary. The same article should not include several things with different contexts in order to create a situation that would not be respectful with regard to wages. I said that the salary was comparable to that of other duties. Mr Van Hees, I think I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u53	Minister, I repeat that the journalists who wrote this article did not contact me. They were based on my written question and your written answer. From the moment you do not overturn the amount of 1 743 euros but you reply, in your written reply, that it is a "very correct" salary in view of comparable sectors, it is that you estimate that 1 743 euros is a very correct salary both in the post and in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u54	You keep changing my words. I said that when comparing to other sectors, the comparison is correct! You do your interpretation and you keep telling what you want, it's your right! I meant that this salary was quite comparable to that of other duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic319x.u55	I will tell you again that it is not my interpretation but that of the journalists who have read your written answer! So you can say that journalists don't know their job! What is true for the public or semi-public sector would even be true for the entire economic world, namely to set a scale between the lowest wage and the highest wage, to avoid the kind of aberrations that we see here. With regard to my question on the power of a government vis-à-vis public or semi-public undertakings, I repeat that when one is a shareholder, one has a say. I have taken the example of Albert Brother but I can take the example of the Boel family, one of the richest in Belgium, which has its holding company Sofina, in which Guy Verhofstadt is an administrator. Party proximity will help you understand! When the Boel family is a shareholder of Danone or Suez Environnement, it has its say, including on the board of directors. It does not fail to intervene and defend its interests. When the state is a shareholder, and a fortiori when it holds half of the shares, it could assert its interests too! But with a government that submits to capital, it is clear that you are not going to adopt this kind of policy!
