ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u1	Minister, harassment is a known problem in most major cities and Belgium is not spared. This was unfortunately illustrated by the report of a young director in the streets of Brussels in 2012. According to the newspaper Le Monde, in France, all public transport users have already been subjected, at least once in their lives, to gender-based harassment or sexual assault. On 9 November 2015, to combat this type of behaviour in public transport, France launched a national awareness campaign called "Stop, that's enough". The Commission recalls, on the one hand, that harassment in transport is punishable by law and, on the other hand, encourages witnesses of harassment scenes to react. Madam Minister, this "Stop, that's enough" campaign launched last month in France gives us the opportunity to come back to this important subject for all of our citizens and especially for women. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. Do we have an estimate or precise statistics of the number of such acts in our public transport, especially in our trains and stations, and at stops? Metros and buses are organized by the Regions. Is there a concerted effort to deal with this scourge? Is an awareness campaign, comparable to the French initiative, in preparation at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u2	Madam President, dear colleague, SNCB is investigating the feeling of insecurity, but it does not specifically address sexual harassment. It is difficult to accurately quantify the magnitude of the phenomenon. In fact, if some victims resort to the SNCB Security Operations Center (SOC) or complain about customer service, others do not report the facts or go directly to a police service after their journey, in which case SNCB is not kept informed of the facts. However, it does not appear that the situation is comparable to that of France. Indeed, in 2015, customer service received two complaints and SOC was called 53 times by women and once by a man. These were mainly facts of exhibitionism and a few facts of tyching. When such facts are reported, Securail immediately informs the police services and increases its presence on the line or station concerned. I refer you to my regional colleagues in charge of regional transport for cases of harassment and sexual violence in regional public transport. There has been a formal and regular consultation between the safety and prevention services of the four public transport companies since 2008. In particular, it discusses the best practices used by everyone in the fight against crime phenomena and, in particular, attacks. No specific campaigns are currently planned. But if that were the case, it would seem wise not to limit itself to SNCB, or even to public transport. According to contacts with the Department of the Interior, it is not excluded that a campaign should be organised soon in the context of the prevention of acts of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. In this respect, we must not limit ourselves to public transport and SNCB. I will, of course, be very attentive to the issue during the next prevention campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, recently Infrabel has expressed its satisfaction with the full implementation of the TBL1+ system on the Belgian rail network. In doing so, Infrabel's CEO, Mr. Lallemand, once again insisted on the need to continue the effort and develop ETCS by 2022. It is expected to cost Infrabel about €2 billion and the SNCB €1.8 billion, which has to adapt the system to rolling stock. At the last hearing of Messrs. Cornu and Lallemand before the committee said: "This is a bad example of technological development (...) very difficult to deploy (...) extremely expensive", insisting that "it has been ten years that we have been working on it", going so far as to push the nail by adding: "Honestly, if it had been developed by Google, it was the matter of a coffee break". What do you think of these statements? According to some sources, the SNCB would consider, at a minimum, calling into question the timetable for the development of the ETCS, given the financial scope of the project, which would be at the expense of supply and the return to budgetary balance. Given the budgetary restrictions you impose on these public companies and the positioning of SNCB's boss, do you think that the planned timetable is realistic? What is the position of SNCB and Infrabel and yours on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u5	Madam President, my colleague, the masterplan approved by SNCB on 23 September 2011 provides for:- to equip all SNCB rolling stock assigned to public service missions with the ETCS system by the end of 2023; - to retain ETCS version 2.3.0D as the basic choice since this version was the last official stable version of ETCS at that time; - to retain level 2 with a soil-bogues transmission via gsm-R, taking into account the orientations defined by Infrabel in his masterplan; - and finally, to integrate into the migration process the use of the new 3XY version, i.e. baseline 3, according to a timing and modalities to be defined at a later stage. The European coordinator says that the basic specifications 2 and 3 are now stable and perfectly compatible and interoperable. This stability would be ensured for several years. It appears that version 3.5.0 has been available since the end of 2015. The schedule provides for formal approval by April 2016 and availability of test specifications by the end of 2016. The first products are expected to be available for pilot installations by mid-2018. With regard to baseline 3, SNCB hopes to be able to place an order with ATO interfaces included for a first delivery in 2020 (it hopes to be operational on baseline 3 networks as early as 2023) and which would be fully in line with the masterplan of 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u6	Minister, I will read all the technical specifications with interest in the minutes. This is a very technical subject. From what I understand at this stage, but I remain cautious because I have to interpret correctly, the concerns raised by Mr Cornu seem to have been solved by technology. I hope that's the right answer. I note that in the beginning we were talking about 2022 and not 2023. It's a year later than expected. I will not fail to read this answer with interest. Apparently, if I understood correctly, the technology would have solved what Mr Cornu himself described as a difficult case and which deserved to be solved from a technological point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u7	And above all, thanks to a better dialogue between the two societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u8	It's a constant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u9	Minister, European Regulation (EC) 261/2004 enshrines certain rights for air travellers. In the event of delay, passengers must be provided with on-site assistance in the form of meals and refreshments sufficient, taking into account the waiting time, two telephone calls (fax or e-mail), and, if necessary, accommodation at the hotel and the handling of transfers between the airport and the hotel. This European Regulation does not provide for compensation for aircraft delays, which is only provided for in the event of cancellation of flights or denied boarding. On 19 November 2009, however, the Court of Justice of the European Union decided that passengers on a delayed flight may invoke the right to compensation when they are delayed by three hours or more. The amount of the lump sum compensation depends on the distance of the flight. However, as in the case of flight cancellations, the carrier will be able to relieve its liability if it can prove that the delay was due to extraordinary circumstances – this is a judgment of the Court of Justice. In practice, it would appear that most airlines do not apply this judgment and stick to the terms of the regulation itself, which does not provide for compensation in the event of delay. Thus, a passenger, faced with a long delay and forced to sleep on the seats of the airport, is obliged to take legal action in order to hope to obtain the refund of the hotel night reserved at the place of destination. This lack of accommodation is likely to affect the rights of the passenger, who must pass through lengthy and binding procedures, e.g. payment of the duty charges. I would therefore like to know whether any initiatives will be taken to harmonise the rules applicable to aircraft delays. At European level, is it planned to bring the regulation into line with the case law of the Court of Justice? If so, when would this take place in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u10	My colleague, your question refers to two very distinct rights of air passengers contained in European law 261/2004. Air passengers, of course, have the right to receive assistance in the event of cancellation or significant delay, but also assistance in the form of refreshments, meals, etc. If this assistance is not provided, the passenger is entitled to claim reimbursement of certain expenses from the airline. He may also claim financial compensation in the event of more than three hours' delay on arrival. The passenger must apply to the airline. Moreover, this compensation is not due if the airline can prove the existence of extraordinary and unavoidable circumstances. If the airline does not respond, the passenger can then apply to the national control body, i.e. the DGTA in respect of Belgium, which will examine the complaint and the exact circumstances of the cancellation of the delay, will try to find a friendly solution between the passenger and the airline and may, in case of non-compliance with European Regulation 261/2004, apply administrative sanctions against the airline. The amounts are fixed by European Regulation 261/2004 and airlines are required to comply with it. As regards the revision of European Regulation 261/2004, a proposal for revision was submitted by the Commission in 2013. This dossier is still awaiting the position of the European Council; the last progress report was drawn up under the Latvian Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u11	Minister, this is a slow-moving issue. Given the difficult situations faced by a number of passengers, I would like the reform of this European regulation to be activated and the DGTA to be able to work as quickly as possible to try to satisfy the passengers seeking compensation. After three hours of delay, it becomes infernal at airports. It's not uncommon to see people spending nights in the halls, on benches. That's quite unpleasant!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u12	Madam Minister, in the new policy paper you say that Belgian legislation on drones needs to be adapted to new developments in recreational aviation. A modern legal framework is needed with appropriate regulations on licences, criteria for equipment, registration and so on. So it's actually bigger than recreational aviation. Drones can also be used professionally, for example in the area of road safety or in the inspection of railway lines. The draft KB was delivered for advice to the Regions, the Council of State and the privacy committee on 8 May. In the meantime, it would also be delivered to the European Commission. That is why I have a number of questions. What's the status of the KB over drones? When can that be expected? Has there been an opinion from Europe on the draft KB? If so, what exactly does that advice entail? Will the Minister take that into account? Have the regions already given advice? If so, what exactly does that advice mean? What will your reaction be to that? Has there been an opinion from the Council of State and will you take this into account? An additional question which is not part of the preparation relates to topicality. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has responded to the drones and claims that drones pose a real and growing threat to civil aviation. The organisation calls for regulation to avoid accidents and calls for a cautious and pragmatic approach. Particular emphasis is placed on collisions between unmanned drones and line planes. Such accidents already occur at low altitudes around airports. Are you going to take that into account? What is your response to the findings and findings of IATA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u13	In accordance with the procedure, the text was submitted to the Directorate-General for Internal Market and Services of the European Commission in mid-September. That authority submitted its comments in its opinion at the end of December pursuant to Directive 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 on a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. Together with the administration and the sector, we have amended a draft decision taking into account the European Commission's comments. I received that opinion on 18 December and we must observe a period of three months before publication. The European Commission has focused its comments mainly on a number of provisions which may hinder the movement of a product and of services. I will, of course, take that into account. The Commission has also referred to future European legislation on drones, including the category between 0 and 180 kilograms referred to in the Royal Decree. Since changes have been made, the opinions of the Regions and the Council of State will be asked to publish the KB Drones in spring 2016. As far as security is concerned, I agree with the organization. Therefore, safety was given priority. The Belgian rules are strict and rather strict, but allow economic development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u14	Madam Secretary, you have sent the draft back to the Regions and the Council of State. The timing is at the end of March 2016. I would like to stress once again that the concerns of IATA are very justified. We must include them in the finalisation of the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u15	Mrs. Hufkens is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u16	Madam President, Minister, a while ago, not for the first time, the question of a train station in Haasrode came up again in the news. That question has already been asked by the city of Leuven and I am well placed to know it and by the companies in Haasrode during the policy period 1995-2000. Meanwhile, Haasrode has become increasingly busy. The question of using public transport, and the train in particular, to do something about the traffic buttons near Leuven, therefore also becomes more prangen. Meanwhile, UCLL University also has a campus in Haasrode and the question also comes from that side. So today both the city of Leuven and the companies of the industrial park in Haasrode and the UCLL University of Applied Sciences are asking to implement a train station in Haasrode. The daily traffic attacks on the Tienesteenweg and in the industrial zone would really be a solution by inserting a train station on line 36 from Leuven to Tienen. As has already been said, this question is very old and after all these years it seems to me that after all these years there would be a station at that place. I would therefore like to put the following questions to you, Madam Secretary. Now that the question has become so urgent, are you considering the installation of a train station in Haasrode? If so, how long will this project be possible? If not, what are the motives for putting the question of Leuven, the college and the companies next to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I too have asked many questions on this subject, because I, like Mrs Jiroflée, am well placed to know the importance of a railway stop in Haasrode. Demand is getting stronger and stronger. The demand always came from the city of Leuven and from the industrial park in Haasrode which is constantly expanding. Now there is the question of the university, where several thousands of students are taking lessons, who can now only travel from the city by bicycle. That is healthy, but it is also appropriate to provide for a public transport stop there. In the past, you replied to a question from me that there had been contacts in the Regionnet Leuven working group and SNCB in order to put in place a new multimodal stop for public transport. In your reply of 13 May, you also stated that there would be a market investigation, including by SNCB. Meanwhile, reports have appeared in the Leuven media that there have not yet been any contacts with SNCB and Infrabel, about a feasibility study or the installation of a possible station in Haasrode. There is some consternation about that in Leuven. Hence my next questions. What is the current status of the file on the Haasrode Researchpark train station? In the meantime, were the necessary documents introduced to SNCB, including by Regionet Leuven? If so, what documents? If not, what are they waiting for? Has market research already started? Has it been executed and completed? If so, what are the results? If not, when will it be completed? Have there been any contacts between SNCB and Infrabel in this area? Are there any financial and operational possibilities in the favourable assessment of the dossier? How much are the costs estimated? Finally, will you eventually insert the stop into your transport plan? What is the deadline for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the opening of the possible Haasrode stop, SNCB will carry out a study covering both the technical possibilities of a train supply and the potential and accessibility of the stop. The study will be conducted in collaboration with the Line, which will also examine the possibilities of upgrading public transport by bus and bus in its own bed. The decisions of the study will be communicated within the context of Regionet Leuven. SNCB wishes to continue the talks on the Leuven rail supply at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u19	Madam Secretary, if you'll excuse me, could you repeat the latter? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u20	SNCB wishes to continue the talks on the Leuven rail supply at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u21	I'm glad you're staying on the line, literally and figuratively. Do you have any idea of the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u23	I note that you answer that question in the negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u24	Madam Secretary, I am a little disappointed, because your answer is the same as in May. Exactly no progress has been made in this area. The study has not yet started. What is stopping SNCB and Infrabel from starting with that? We have been more than three-quarters of a year and there has been no progress, and the question is becoming really urgent. I hope that the study will eventually begin. I wonder why it has not yet started, as it had already been announced in May 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u25	Madam Secretary, there was an agreement between SNCB and the railway unions on the exempts in function of trade union work. These workers are paid by SNCB but actually work at the service of their trade union. This agreement would have expired at the end of last year. The management of SNCB did not agree to simply renew or renew the existing agreement because there was no social climate. This is still not the case. In January we saw a number of strikes. Those exempts cost a lot of money to the railways. In terms of labour costs, it is more than EUR 5.5 million in concrete terms. You have already replied to previous questions. That is why I wanted to ask you some additional questions. Has the social agreement already been renewed with regard to the exempts? Where are they now employed, internally for the railway company or at the service of the trade union? Do you consider it necessary for SNCB to employ such a large number of employees in the trade union and is this proportionate to other railway undertakings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u26	There is currently an intense meeting with trade union representatives on the conclusion of a protocol of social agreement for the period 2016-2019. The new trade union convention is part of the negotiations. The intention is to reach decisions in the next few weeks. The exempts continue to benefit from the trade unions pending a new trade union convention. It is difficult to compare with other railway undertakings because staff representation is not organised in the same way in all countries. In a number of countries, for example, consultation with staff groups is organised, not for all railway workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that the negotiations for the 2016-2019 agreement are still ongoing and that you hope that they will reach a decision within a few weeks. But I have also noted your answer on the exempts who are still employed by the trade unions. I do hope that they will be able to reach an agreement within a few weeks. Otherwise, it would be strange for the railway company to continue to pay people in function of a trade union when there is actually no agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u28	Madam Minister, I have already asked a number of questions about the GEN stopping point. Other colleagues have done the same. Last time, you indicated that the management committee of SNCB agreed to the construction of the stop in Machelen. This is an important project with many potential travelers. The approval by the local authorities had yet to be carried out. You also said that the cost of the project is estimated at EUR 5.4 million. Madam Secretary, what is the status of the project? In the meantime, were the permits issued by Vilvoorde and Machelen? When will the works start and when will the stop point be ready? What investments are included in the estimated investment amount of EUR 5.4 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u29	Madam Minister, I have the same concerns as Mrs De Coninck and have already asked a number of questions about this. The arrival of Uplace does not disappear from the current situation, especially as it could potentially cause a massive traffic infarct on the Brussels ring. You're told I'm not an advocate of Uplace. You replied that an urban planning permit for the GEN stop point Machelen was prepared and that the approval was expected on 30 September 2015. Resources were also provided. The cost is estimated at EUR 5.4 million, which is more than the initial target of EUR 3.2 million. A cooperation agreement between SNCB, Machelen and Vilvoorde is also being prepared. On 22 June 2015, an agreement was already granted by SNCB's Management Committee. Madam Secretary, what is the state of the town planning permit? Has it already been issued? What are the next steps? Was the construction of the GEN station included in the multi-annual investment plan? What is the deadline for the realization of the stop site Machelen? After all, it is very important that it be realized, because the Flemish Government cannot issue an environmental permit if that condition is not met. In the meantime, has a cooperation agreement been concluded between SNCB, Vilvoorde and Machelen? If yes, what is the content of the agreement? If no, when is the cooperation agreement expected? As regards the increase in costs, it is remarkable that the operator does not intervene in the costs. What are your reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u30	Madam Minister, our party's position on Uplace has been expressed on several occasions by my good colleague Hans Bonte, as has our mayor of Leuven. Both have doubts about the feasibility of the project. I am now focusing on the mobility aspect, with the consequences of Uplace, and on the necessary investments in the framework of the GEN stop point Machelen. Everyone here has asked where they stand with the file. Under the terms of the Flemish Government, I believe I have read that the permit must be available by 2017. It is unclear which period of realization is put forward. The cost is 5.4 million, but it is not clear which key is in place. Madam Secretary, I'd like to get an update. Is the construction of Machelen site included in the list of 50 projects which would be carried out as part of a multi-criteria analysis or of which a ranking would be drawn up? How many trains would SNCB provide? Was it calculated how many people one would want to transport by rail to the shopping complex? Is there a dialogue between SNCB and Uplace's promoters? Initially, the price was estimated at EUR 3.2 million, but this now amounts to EUR 5.4 million. What's the reason for that? Was a cooperation agreement or agreement concluded with, for example, the surrounding cities on the realisation of the additional stop point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u31	The application for an urban planning permit was submitted by SNCB to the Department of Space of the Flemish Region, province of Flemish Brabant on 30 September 2015. Public investigation and consultation of the various advisory bodies are currently under way. The project is included in a draft multi-annual investment plan. Work on the preparation of the 2016-2020 Multiannual Investment Plan has not yet been completed. This is expected in the first half of 2016. Pending this, no planning can be made and no commitment can be made. The cooperation agreement of 8 July 2015 between Vilvoorde, Machelen and SNCB aims to develop a joint layout vision for the immediate vicinity of the stop infrastructure, in particular for the axis Kerklaan-Broekstraat, between the Schaarbeeklei and Rittwegerlaan, and the end of the Nieuwbrugstraat, from Rittwegerlaan, with integration of the stop Machelen and its various entrances. The design vision takes into account the possible developments and the opening of the project grounds along the Broekstraat, the project grounds along the Kerklaan, between the railway line and the Rittwegerlaan, and the project grounds at the Nieuwbrugstraat. The connection of the Broekstraat to the Schaarbeeklei and the relationship with the Broekplein are also included. The interior vision integrates the station accommodation in the immediate vicinity, such as parking spaces, kiss-and-ride, bicycle storage and access ramps and stairs. The principles of that design vision were included in the building application of 30 September 2015. The initial amount concerned an initial approach to the costs of the infrastructure, drawn up in 2013, on the basis of the known elements at that time. The current estimate includes the total cost of the building application file and the infrastructure works, the platform equipment and accesses to the platforms, the bicycle sheds and the kiss-and-ride parking spaces. SNCB is the initiator in the file. In this context, SNCB has signed a cooperation agreement for the realisation of the stations and stations environments between Halle, Vilvoorde and Mechelen. Although Infrabel is not a party to that agreement, part of the project will be borne by Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I shall read the report because it is not entirely clear to me. So the building application dossier includes road works, if I understand correctly, but they are not covered by the amount of EUR 5.4 million? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u33	I will have to read the report for that, because that is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u34	I thank the Minister for her answer. I will also read the report, because I understand that the layout vision is included in the urban application. It is not clear to me what resources are being provided, whether everything is being absorbed by SNCB and whether parts are being provided for Machelen and Vilvoorde. It seems logical to me that the costs should be shared out. It remains odd that the operator Uplace does not contribute to the costs. Ultimately, the federal government invests in making a huge shopping center accessible for which there is no social support. I have a few questions about that. I think it is necessary that the operator should also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u35	I thank the Minister for her answer. We'll wait and see. I only note that the CD&V, Flemish-Brabant department, will now have to wait for the wisdom of the urban permit and possibly go back to the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Ostend, SNCB is working on construction projects. I saw them on the scene last Friday. I would have liked some more information on that. It is an ambitious project, including a new parking tower and a new station hall. There is also a bus terminal or station for buses of the Line. What's the new station hall for? After all, the hall is already partly in use. The old station also has its charm. So the need for a new hallway is a little weird. Which station functions will eventually be housed in that hall? How much does the construction of the new station hall cost? How is the construction of the bus terminal financed? What is the average cost per passenger of the station project for SNCB? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u37	Madam President, the plans for the new station hall next to the historic station building are being completely revised. SNCB is currently examining the possibility of a multimodal platform for the reception of passengers on the ground floor of the former Terminus hotel in the context of the re-destination of the restoration and of the entire building. In that scenario, the new station hall will be replaced by the extension of the platform canopy, for which the necessary financing arrangements with the Autonomous Municipality of Haven Ostend must be established. The project of the Lijn consists of the bus station, a tram station and the relocation of the bus and tram station from the station environment to a site in the port area. The freed-up area makes way for a quality public space, which makes the link between the station square and the Maria Hendrikapark, on the one hand, and between the Hazegras neighborhood and the new urban station facade, on the other. These projects are financed entirely by the Line. SNCB invests approximately €74 million in the Ostend station environment during the period 2011-2018. Given the atypical nature of the coastal stations, with very high peaks during the tourist season, SNCB does not have a ratio of investment to the average number of passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u38	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that the financing arrangements with the Autonomous Community of Haven Ostend have yet to be established. However, the works have already started. Ik dank u alleszins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u39	Madam Minister, we were allowed to hear in the media that you will have the BIVV examine whether there is a need for adjustments to speed on our motorways. That seems very interesting indeed, knowing that this is already possible abroad. With us, the maximum speed anywhere is 120 km/h. Variable speeds are possible in other countries. Madam Secretary, could you explain that for me? Is the information true that you requested an investigation? What exactly does the investigation mean? Do you hope to get the results of the survey before the summer? Will you also discuss this with the Regions? Can you give me a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, if it is all right with you, do I ask my question from the Chair? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u41	Madam Secretary, a good month ago, it became clear that you want the BIVV to carry out a comparative study. I would like to remind you once again that our country is the worst pupil of Western Europe when it comes to road safety. Last year there were no fewer than 755 road deaths, an increase of 28 compared to the year before. The road safety barometer at the BIVV teaches us that in 2014 108 people died on our motorways. In the first three quarters of 2015, two more deaths were counted than in the same period the year before. That means that we are not really moving forward. In addition, previous research has shown that increasing the maximum speed to 130 km per hour on our motorways can lead to 19% more deaths. For our country, that would amount to 20 more deaths. In this way, we are slipping even further away from our goal of fewer road deaths in the future. A few months ago, in the run-up to the States-General of Road Safety, you had no idea how to improve road safety. Madam Minister, the increase in the speed limit to 130 km per hour is certainly not a good proposal. I would have liked to have answered the following questions. Research into variable speed is not the responsibility of the Federal Minister of Mobility; research into the maximum speed is. What authority do you intend to exercise in this regard? Does the study you wish to carry out constitute a conflict with regional competences? What budget do you plan for the study? It seems that the study should also examine the effect of an increase in the maximum speed. A study was carried out by KU Leuven in 2009. It states that an increase in the maximum speed will lead to an increase in the number of road deaths. Will the 2009 study be included? Will we build on that or do everything again? The Flemish Minister for Mobility said in the plenary session of the Flemish Parliament on 13 January that there cannot be an increase in the maximum speed. He states that on the basis of studies. Do you consult with the Ministers of the Regions on the study you wish to order? If so, what is the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u42	Madam President, the IBSR is currently working on the methodology and content of this study on the appropriateness of adapting speed limitation to improve road safety, improve traffic flow and reduce the climate impacts of transport. Indeed, the countries mentioned are examples to be analysed, but since the rules are different, it is not possible for me to take a position on either. It is, of course, far too early to give you any further information on the content. The study is expected by this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your brief reply. The timing was clear around the summer, so soon. The best thing to do is to wait for the study. With regard to the arguments put forward for smoother traffic and fewer road deaths, perhaps everyone is in favour of smoother and more efficient traffic and fewer road deaths. But what does smoother traffic mean? I had hoped to hear more about the content and the assignment of the study. I look forward to the results that we will be discussing in Parliament at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u44	Madam Secretary, I am surprised at your answer. I think we have just asked what the contours of the study are. They should be known by now anyway. Will it build on the 2009 study? I assume that a clear study of specific directives has been commissioned. We shall await the study. In any case, I hope that road safety prevails. Traffic flow is certainly important, but road safety must play the key role here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u45	Madam Minister, on Wednesday 13 January we had a very interesting hearing here on the subject of a hit-and-run. At that time we received many very interesting speakers, including many police judges. The very flagrant statement was made at the time that, if we MEPs want to accept our responsibility in terms of road safety, it is our job to ensure that the driving licence comes with points. It wasn't the first time we've had this conversation. Are you considering having a debate on this in Parliament, Madam Secretary? If so, what is your timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u46	Madam Minister, I will not repeat everything Mrs Dumery has said. In the past, you were clearly not in favour of the driving licence with points. In an interview in Sudpresse, you said that there would be an investigation into the introduction of the driving licence with points. As Mrs Dumery said, it was clear at the hearing that almost everyone we heard was absolutely in favour of the introduction of the driving licence with points to reduce the number of road deaths. The BIVV reiterates in its studies that this is a possibility. In the latest study of March 2015, the BIVV reiterates that the system of a driving licence with points can help to increase road safety, at least during the initial period after its introduction. It also states, I quote: 'Before the system of a driving licence with points is introduced, it is necessary to examine the points system, its operational implementation, its costs and so on'. Is it in your interview in Sudpresse about that study? Is it about the real implementation? Or is the study again about the opportunity of a driving licence with points? In other words, can you clarify the scope of the investigation? When will the investigation start? When are the results expected? How much budget do you make available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u47	Of course, I agree with the previous two speakers. I must also say that I was pleasantly surprised by the message in Het Laatste Nieuws, which referred to an interview in the newspapers of Sudpresse, in which a new study on the driving licence with points was announced. That study would be carried out by the BIVV. Madam Secretary, is it true, first of all, that you are conducting a new investigation into the driving licence with points? If yes, what is the precise assignment and what is expected of the BIVV? What's the timing? When is the delivery expected? When can we expect the results so that we can discuss them here in committee? Secondly, what is the state of play in the investigation of the new recurrent regime of the BIVV and the FPS Mobility? There have been announcements about this before. Has that investigation been completed yet? If so, what are the conclusions? Thirdly, there is also regular reference to the action plan against impunity. In December, for example, we could read that steps would be taken to better punish foreign drivers. I read yesterday that we can expect a draft law on this shortly. Can we expect other measures in the context of that action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u48	Beste collega's, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to comment on this matter. As indicated in the Government Agreement, the government will examine the most appropriate instruments to combat recidivism. The point permit is only a lead. It is clear from all the study records from the IBSR and my administration that the permit itself is not a miracle solution. It should be noted that some countries such as Sweden or the Netherlands do not have point permits, while the effects of the introduction of point permits in other countries are not sufficiently demonstrable, certainly not in the long term. The maintenance of controls is in any case a crucial point, allowed at points or not, in order to combat infringements on the road. I would also remind you that since January 1, 2015, a new cross-recidivism system has come into effect. The recidivism of one of the six most serious offences within 3 years is punishable by a minimum limitation of 3 months and the passing of four integration examinations. I have asked the IBSR, on the one hand, to examine the effects of the introduction of this new system to combat recidivism and, on the other hand, to organise an information campaign to increase the deterrent effect of this system. I also work with the judiciary to systematize the "screening" of recidivism, also for less serious offences that are the subject of immediate perception. I believe it is important that prosecutors are able to know the profile of each driver who commits offences on a regular basis and that at some point an alarm bell automatically warns the judiciary that an adequate social response is expected, for example, by offering a specific transaction or training or by bringing charges before the judge. This requires the necessary databases of the police and the judiciary, linked to each other, but also to the driver's licence databank for delinquents. I am confident that gradually, justice will have the tools to better detect recidivism under the new system of administrative treatment of immediate perceptions and offences in general. The strength of the new system lies in the fact that this processing will be controlled and centralized at the level of justice and that the data can be linked to each other. Let us make the existing arsenal operational, raise awareness and continue to intensify the controls and the objective can be achieved. To answer the questions of Mrs Temmerman and Mr Van den Bergh, I did not ask the BIVV for a new study. Finally, to answer Mrs Dumery's question, it is up to the members of this committee to decide whether they would like to organise a debate or hearings on the driving licence with points. I'll be happy to take part in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u49	Madam Minister, we have already had a debate and I have not heard anything new from your reply. It may indeed not be a panacea and there must be enforcement. However, these are repeated minor offences which go unpunished. You refer to databases in this area, but you also know how difficult it is to create a database between different authorities. Moreover, I think that we need a little more than that if road safety is to be number one and the number of road deaths is to be reduced. In the countries where a licence with points was introduced, however, an effect has been demonstrated. This committee is the right place to hold a debate on this matter and to hold hearings, and I am pleased that you will cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u50	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mrs Dumery's reply. Road safety is not a story or a story, but mostly a story and there are many small things we have to do. If you refer to what will happen in the future, it will be in our system in the long term, while the introduction of the driving licence with points could be relatively faster. As has been said, in all the countries where the driving licence was introduced with points, this has had an effect. I don't know if there was a representative of the cabinet present at the hearing, but everyone, both the police and the police and the parents' associations of accidented children, was in favour, so I don't understand why you're restricting. I am glad that you are prepared to enter into the debate. I hope that the chairman and secretary of this committee will take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that the reports in the newspapers were not entirely correct, in the sense that there will be no new study specifically on the driving licence with points, but that there will be another study in the meantime on the evaluation of the impact of previous recidivisms. There is, of course, a fundamental difference between the recurrent rules that have been in place since January 2015 and the approach we want to achieve through the driving licence with points. The recidivisms provided for in the law adopted by the previous government, which has been implemented since January 2015, improves and facilitates the handling of recidivisms of serious offences. Indeed, infringements must no longer be identical within three years; different types of serious offences can now be combined. When we talk about the point-by-point driving licence, of course it is also about dealing with the repetition of minor offences, which can actually be paid off today. By paying the immediate collection, there is no trace of the behaviour of certain drivers. If these minor offences were to be repeated, what could be perfectly achieved with the driving licence with points, there would be a kind of antenna to identify which drivers might fall into the heavier offences that we are now dealing with only with the new recidivism regime. It is not an alternative to the driving licence with points, but a supplement to the repetition scheme. We have to do the two. In this context, I am thinking of the examples from abroad. France will extend its regime to foreign directors. This shows that they have made their assessment, that they clearly see that it works and therefore extend their scheme. We should also keep that evaluation thorough and conclude that it should work with us. There are two deaths on Belgian roads every day, and we cannot tolerate that. Measures are therefore needed and the points driving licence has shown in other countries that it can have a clear effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u52	Madam Secretary, press reports on yet another delay at the station building in Bergen. This megalomaniac station had to be the icing on the cake in the year in which Bergen, in 2015, became the cultural capital of Europe. Neither cost nor effort were spared, including a railway bridge over the platforms, with a price tag of no less than 35 million euros. The platforms used to be accessible via a corridor under the tracks, but good. Eurogare would have terminated the contract with Italian yard manager Cordioli & C. Because one of the subcontractors failed, Eurogare is now looking for a replacement. A new public invitation to tender is being launched for this purpose. As a result, the construction works are again delayed and the delivery date of 2018 is not already delayed. Madam Secretary, would you please explain this situation? Is the new incident causing additional costs? How much delay does this delay the construction of the station? Do you also take a look at the added value for the passenger of the railway bridge, which used to be a tunnel under the tracks? I do not see that added value for the train traveller of a bridge instead of a tunnel, but I would like to hear it from you. Is this new public tender being discussed in the newly created investment cell? Are there any other alternatives to the rail bridge that could be cheaper?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u53	The firm Cordioli C, the contractor responsible for the construction and assembly of the metal structure and the roofing of the platforms of the station, had been in default for several months. In November 2015, SNCB was forced to dissolve the entire assignment after Cordioli & C announced that it would suspend the works. A new procedure for the award of this contract will be launched. A cutlery is currently being finalised. In the meantime, Eurogare, the construction director and the regulated builder, has concluded a pressing assignment with Pirson Assembly to fix the partly constructed structure. This will enable the future contractor to continue working in good conditions. Pirson Assembly started the works on 5 January 2016. The legal problems arising from the situation created by Cordioli & C. are followed up in order to safeguard the interests of SNCB. The financial consequences of the termination of the contract will depend on the outcome of the negotiations for the new contract. There was a delay of about a year. It remains the objective to be able to hire the station of Bergen by the end of 2018. All passenger and commercial services will be housed in the railway bridge. SNCB submitted a sheet of Masterplan Mons to the investment cell. However, the new award relates to works currently in progress. It is a question of finding a solution to the shortcomings of an undertaking which has been found to be in default. According to SNCB, there is no cheaper alternative. Eighty-six percent of the steel parts that form the bridge have already been made. As I said before, its assembly will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u55	Madam Minister, I asked you a while ago about the swearing-in of train escorts at SNCB. This question deals with train escorts in the Thalys. In order to verify identity and possibly issue fines, those train escorts must be sworn in. Since 31 March 2015, Thalys has been a fully-fledged railway operator. Before that, the tasks were carried out by SNCF, SNCB or Deutsche Bahn. The fact that Thalys is now a fully-fledged railway operator also has implications for the correct application of the ticket control procedure. The only train crew sworn in today by the court is that of SNCB. Thalys has, as far as I know, no sworn train escorts. Therefore, without swearing in, that staff should not, strictly speaking, check their identity or issue a fine for a black driver. My questions to you are the following, Madam Secretary. How has Thalys checked the identity of black drivers since March 31st? Does Thaly's sworn train escorts? If no, does that raise a legal problem in the collection or contestation of fines for black drivers or others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u56	THI Factory's activities are not part of the public service remit. Consequently, the State does not intervene in the first decisions relating to that undertaking. However, when THI Factory was set up, SNCB, SNCF and Deutsche Bahn concluded service contracts with THI Factory for the performance of their respective staff, which THI Factory continues to use. Therefore, nothing changes compared to the situation before 31 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u57	Madam Secretary, you say nothing changes. It appears that it is still the staff of SNCB who are sworn in and therefore legally entitled to verify identity and to issue fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u58	Since the entry into force of the new SNCB timetable in December 2015, SNCB has no longer issued a paper track record. Via the app and the website, the travellers can create their own timetable brochure. A PDF file with the same contents as the railway book is also available via the site. In the Netherlands, the NS also stopped selling the railway book a few years ago. Since then, the passenger association Rover and the website trainreiziger.nl have successfully issued a railway booklet in their own right. It has been proposed to SNCB to follow that example, but it has been refused. As long as the PDF file is available via the website, the passengers must print the booklet themselves, said SNCB. As part of the open data, it seems obvious that the timetable is as wide as possible available. Are you prepared to consider the possibility of third parties issuing a paper booklet on the basis of data provided by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u59	SNCB has received the application from Rover and train traveller.nl well. However, the problem is that SNCB no longer produces tables. However, SNCB's public data currently provides third parties with the possibility to publish their own paper trails. To this end, the requesting parties must complete a form on the SNCB website in order to gain access to the timetables. They can then make their timetable tables and their own railway booklet with the data provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u60	Madam Minister, passenger organisation TrainTramBus calls on SNCB to make greater use of the data available to society to correctly assess travel flows. For example, the use of the route planner and the app appears to be a good indication of the estimated travel pressure. It is proposed that these data should be collected more structurally and that the necessary adjustments should be made to the equipment deployment on the basis of this data. It is suggested to reflect the assessment via the usual communication channels, so that passengers may opt for a less busy train for their movement. These data could also be made available to third parties as open data. This is perfectly reflected in the resolution we adopted here in 2015. Such data can provide a good basis for the objectification of passenger flows, allowing for a more independent steering role for rail traffic. Firstly, is SNCB already using big data to estimate travel flows and transport questions? Secondly, have you been won to go on the suggestion of TrainTramBus to allow such data to be collected and used better? Do you see any opportunities to have more objective data within the intermodality platform? Thirdly, do you think it is appropriate that the data should also be made available to third parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u61	Madam Minister, my colleague Lahaye-Battheu has already made the introduction. It is true that it is not a new theme and that several committee members have raised the issue before. The advantage of big data is that it can map the flows of passengers so that the bottlenecks can be detected. You have previously replied that you have asked SNCB to do this. What is your vision on the call of iMinds and TrainTramBus to release real-time data? What's the status today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u62	Madam Minister, I naturally agree with the questions put by fellow Members on the occasion of the call by TrainTramBus and our resolution adopted on 8 July 2015. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about the call from TrainTramBus? Does the optimal use and release of data fit in your future vision for the railway company? If so, how will you encourage SNCB to work on this? What measures should be taken to ensure that data is used as efficiently as possible? SNCB speaks of a technical challenge for the release of real-time information. However, this information could greatly improve customer friendliness. Can you explain that challenge or what SNCB calls a challenge? What are the problems, the difficulties and the possible solutions? What's the timing of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u63	Madam President, my question is more about the "open data" angle than about the "big data" angle, although it is well known that this is all about data. I would like to ask you to take stock of how SNCB applied open data policy in its company. In July, we passed a resolution; yesterday, the Deputy Prime Minister introduced his open data bill in public services. So, Madam Minister, can you inform us about how SNCB applies or intends to implement its policy, a real open data policy, that is to say, access for third parties to databases, and not in a way that is too partitioned. Indeed, companies, start-ups and those who want to use the data must be able to do so in an open manner. Is this policy really open today or is it still something timoré, which is not in line with the directives and resolutions that this Parliament has had the opportunity to adopt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u64	The models used by SNCB to adapt the train offer to demand are not yet based on the use of big data, but on regular physical counts of the number of passengers on board the trains and in the stations. SNCB is currently studying the possibilities of carrying out travel arrangements by means of big data techniques and exploring the various slopes proposed in industry. Since 22 September 2015, SNCB has published the planned timetable of the trains on its website. These open dates are free of charge, provided that a contract is signed with SNCB. The terms of use of the contract are intended to avoid misuse. For this reason, the current contract prohibits the person or organisation from further transmitting that data to third parties. There is no selection process. Any person or organisation returning the signed contract shall receive the data. As of January 19, 2016, there were 126 contract applications from large companies, start-ups, individuals or universities. Eight contracts were signed, while 118 contracts had not yet been returned by the applicants. A concrete example of the use of this data is Google Maps, which now integrates scheduled train schedules into its route planner. SNCB plans to make its real-time train schedule data available in the near future. However, it awaits the final specifications of the bill in order to be able to rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u65	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u66	I thank the Minister for her answer. We will examine to what extent innovative initiatives can contribute even more to better passenger service. I thought the resolution was a good initiative initially, even though I have always added that there must be a proper balance when opening up the dates. It can't just be about private use. SNCB must also be able to make use of it. Cooperation should be possible in order for the traveller to have access to the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u67	I thank the Minister for her answer. I remember a few things. For example, opening up the timetable is already a relatively successful process. There are many requests to use the data and integrate it into applications. This shows that there was an effective need to open up those data. Furthermore, there is a clear desire to make progress on real-time data. This may happen after the adoption of the bill, which Minister De Croo has already explained. Another element is the use of data for mapping passenger flows and the adaptation of the deployment of rolling stock and trains. This is still happening today on the basis of manual counts on the train and on the platforms. Anno 2016 we would expect something different, especially now that another public company like Proximus offers tools to map public flows at major events or tourist locations using the identification of mobile phones. Also for traffic settings more and more mobile reception points are counted instead of using tellusses. Big data also offer huge applications for the train. In this way, more accurate counts are possible and therefore a better use of the available train equipment. That still offers real prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, resuming the encouraging steps that SNCB is moving towards. I think, like colleagues, that we will have to go further. At the moment, we are rather in a dynamic of data sharing, but the open data must obviously be part of a broader framework, that of the platforms that are being set up by the federal government and that allow all those who want to use them – especially start-ups – to have much easier access to the data. In view of the figures you have given, that out of 126 applications, only 8 contracts have been signed to date, reinforces me in the idea that there is scope for development and improvement. However, we are moving in the right direction; we must persevere. This is certainly what the evaluation will conclude that you will not fail to do with the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u69	Madam President, Minister, the January 13 Echo indicates your willingness to withdraw from the Mobility and Transport FPS its mission of preparing and evaluating the mobility policy. Moreover, it would appear that the firm adopts an attitude of blocking on the contract of administration 2016-2018 of the SPF. Beyond the inadequate aspect that such an attitude would reveal, if it were to be proven, I regret above all that the mobility policy of the Federal State will certainly not be strengthened. For if the federal state has to define its vision of mobility, the SPF and operators must participate in this reflection from an operational point of view. Cooperation between the SPF and the firm is one of the sine qua nons of an effective mobility policy. In my view, the role of the SPF should be strengthened. Indeed, the Mobility and Transport FPS has always lacked a high level of expertise and sufficient staff. A clear political will should enable it, in the future, to steer mobility policy, including the basic one on rail, and to develop objective tools for evaluating public policies. Minister, what is your precise and complete vision of the role of the Mobility FPS and its cooperation with the firm? When can the 2016-2018 administration contract be signed? Finally, as part of your participation in the meetings of the steering committee, how do you intend to do so in order to ensure a free speech in a context of tension, as seems to be known and I hope to be denied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u70	We could read in the newspaper L.Echo that a number of powers contained in the Royal Decree of 20 November 2011 could be reduced. It is about policy preparation, evaluation, formatting of SWOT analyses and the like. According to that article, the cabinet would like to limit the supporting role of the FPS in the follow-up of the policy. According to the article, the Minister or her representative would attend the meetings of the Management Committee. I have a number of questions similar to those of Mr Cheron. Are the allegations about the reversal of powers set out in the Royal Decree of 20 November 2011 valid? Isn't there a legal basis for that? How are we supposed to assess the working relationship between your cabinet and the FPS?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u71	Madam Chair, I do not have to have a personal opinion on the role of the Mobility FPS. The legal texts are clear, whether they are the Royal Decree of 20 November 2001 or the Royal Decree of 29 October 2001. These texts first state that the Mobility and Transport FPS was created under the authority of the Minister who has Mobility and Transport in his responsibilities. They also describe the tasks of the FPS, namely policy preparation and evaluation, legislation and regulation, coordination and control. However, I would also like to recall the subordinate role of the FPS vis-à-vis its minister and the duty of loyalty of the FPS to the implementation of the ministerial policy options. With a view to managing the files, permanent contacts will take place between the members of the cabinet's policy cell and the members of the FPS, of any board of directors. I am extremely pleased with the progress of this cooperation. I confirm that every day there are contacts between my strategic cell and the Mobility FPS. Every day, meetings are held either at home or within the administration. The same texts also describe the obligation to conclude an administrative contract and the content of such administrative contracts. Working documents on this administration contract have been the subject of discussions and exchanges between the SPF and the firm's strategic unit for many months. The process is being finalized to make improvements to the documents and to comply with the basic texts, in particular the strategic objectives formulated in accordance with the SMART principle for the efficient and high-quality delivery of all missions and tasks, and even those relating to the internal functioning and management of the federal service. This exchange with the SPF on these last two points is still ongoing and the last meeting on the administration contract is on 2 February. A final version should be discussed in the Management Committee of the Mobility FPS and established in such a way that all management members were actively involved in its development. I will be particularly attentive to it. Although it is usually the director of the policy cell or those responsible for the policy cores participating in the meetings of the Management Committee, my participation should not be seen as a desire not to let the members of the Management Committee speak freely. On the contrary, it bears witness to the interest of myself and my cabinet in the management and proper functioning of the FPS as well as in the coordination of all services with the policy cabinet. I am even considering the establishment of a policy council as foreseen in the Royal Decree of 7 November 2000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. I feel like I'm hearing Edith Piaf about "Everything's fine." It's like a denial statement! We take note of that. If, moreover, it is true, we can only rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u74	I am not one of those who think that the truth is read in the newspapers; the truth is multiple. I take note of two things. First, you publicly stress the importance and role of the Mobility FPS. I'm glad. Next week we will be able to study the Court of Auditors' report on SNCB and Infrabel management contracts. There are many passages about the SPF and its inability today, for lack of means, to really control the reference dates of Infrabel's investments. Good if it goes well at the Mobility FPS but I'm not totally convinced! We'll get back to it. Secondly, I discover that a discussion is well under way and that we will one day witness the birth of an administrative contract 2016-2018. This is necessary and indispensable. Believe me that I will continue to be attentive to the role of the Mobility FPS, far beyond the stakes of SNCB or Infrabel alone. We know it's made up of many facets and it's happy. There is a growing awareness that mobility issues are a key issue in Belgium, not only for the environment, for the economy, but also to respect our capacity for sustainable growth, which is necessary for the economic and social revitalization of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u75	So I note a number of words such as loyalty, interest from both sides, and good functioning. As Members of this House, I think we can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u76	Minister, at the beginning of January 2016, the press reported that the Vehicle Registration Directorate (VID) had recently issued registration plates to individuals that could refer to Nazi Germany, with associations of letters such as HH, EVA-SS or SS. For example, it was issued to a citizen on 16 June 2014. The Belgian League against Anti-Semitism has reacted strongly and has seized your services on this issue. As its president rightly pointed out, registration plates with such a heavy connotation should not be able to circulate on our roads, even if the holders do not necessarily have bad intentions. In the case of the SS plate, it would appear, for example, that these letters correspond to the initials of the owner. For my part, it seems to me very important that it no longer presents itself in the future, for obvious reasons related to history. Minister, you responded very quickly by launching an internal investigation. You will agree with me, it is surprising that such plates could have been issued by the DIV, whereas the rules on this subject formally prohibit registrations of an offensive, racist, offensive or political character. In this regard, have any specific measures already been taken or will they be taken to better control the issuance of these registration plates? If so, which ones? Thank you already for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u77	The Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the registration of vehicles which organizes the issue of personalized plates does not establish a list of prohibited combinations. The offensive, insulting, racist, anti-Semitic or xenophobic character is not always easy to determine. It does not seem appropriate to prevent a citizen from travelling with a personalized plaque bearing his initials. Moreover, such a list could not be exhaustive. However, section 23 of the Order specifies that the officer or his delegate may accept or refuse the reservation of the registration number determined by the person who first requests it. Although the reservation and use of a combination is the sole responsibility of the holder who requests it, the IVD therefore has the possibility to refuse certain combinations a priori and to recall and cancel a posteriori any combination whose offensive, insulting, racist or xenophobic character has been subject to complaint, without any compensation being required from the holder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u78	Thank you, that's quite reassuring. Can you tell me if the plates in question have been removed? Don't you have any information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u79	Madam President, Madam Minister, you indicated in your strategic vision for rail, presented in July 2015, that you wanted to increase the availability of rolling stock from 80 % to 86 %. About a year and a half ago it became clear that about a quarter of all locomotives and train sets in the workshops stand still for maintenance. At the time, there was 24 % unavailability. The current situation is not so clear. Meanwhile, B-Technics drew up an action plan to reach the availability level of 86 %, the goal of your strategic vision, by 2030. Madam Secretary, how much of the rolling stock is still in the workshops today? In other words, what is the evolution since the previous figures, when there was 24 %? Secondly, can you explain the action plan drawn up by B-Technics? How do we try to increase availability? What specific measures are being taken? With what timing is that plan followed and adjusted? Who is the ultimate responsibility for this? Thirdly, is it possible to shift the maintenance of the locomotives and wagons more to weekends and nights, so that the availability during the hours that the equipment is really needed increases? Finally, in addition to the action plan, are there any initiatives to increase availability? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u80	The rolling stock is unavailable for the commercial service for part of its time in order to perform the necessary repair and maintenance tasks that are essential to ensure the safety and quality of the equipment. This concerns various activities: routine maintenance and repairs, modernisation and overhaul of train trainsets in order to improve the comfort of passengers. These upgrades are carried out in the central workshops and require long-term immobilization of rolling stock. Modifications to rolling stock, such as the installation of new ETCS on-board safety systems, may also require long unavailability. The immobilisation rate of the traction equipment was on average 20% in 2015. The comparison of the performance of maintenance services at European level is not obvious because of a range of factors which vary from one network to another: the use of rolling stock, the characteristics of the fleet, the situation of the staff, the KPI (key performance indicator) used, the evolution of needs, etc. However, overall it appears that equipment maintenance costs are 10% higher within SNCB than the cost mentioned in the benchmark for other operators. This is due in particular to the high average age of SNCB rolling stock (40% of rolling stock at 30 years of age or older) and the large number of different types of equipment to be maintained. In addition, in other operators, maintenance is carried out according to different working patterns, night and weekend work. Following contacts and visits to other networks or private companies, SNCB is undertaking actions to further improve the maintenance process of rolling stock, with the aim of increasing quality, reliability, availability and cleanliness, as well as reducing costs. These actions include better diagnosis and more efficient repair, including the use of modern technologies, the intensification of shiftwork, i.e. when equipment is no longer used, better preparation of work, training of staff, projects to improve and clean trains, the construction of new workshops, and the acquisition of more efficient facilities. All these actions are currently planned between 2016 and 2019. Other initiatives will indeed be taken, such as a finer alignment between BTC and BTR of the rolling stock and the availability of train operators, on the one hand, with the maintenance capacity of the workshops and the collection of structured feedback between SDR and BTC on equipment problems, on the other. As part of the contract for the purchase of the new equipment, part of the electrical components will be maintained by the manufacturer and assistance will be provided for a limited period of time to ensure a transfer of know-how. Apart from this, the interviews will still be carried out in SNCB's workshops.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u81	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which I will read in peace. I understand that it is a shared concern to make a lot of leaps forward in terms of maintenance. In this way we can achieve greater availability of equipment, which is really essential in order to provide a good service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u82	Minister, in its January 12, 2016 edition, the daily newspaper L的Écho reported on Infrabel's decision not to recruit statutory agents. Indeed, Infrabel's HR Director reportedly sent an e-mail to HR Rail's management giving instructions to stop any statutory engagement after January 29. Although, as was said at a later stage, this would be a technical error, it seems rather curious that specific instructions of this type have been circulated at some point in time. Since the statutory recruitment remains the rule, this could run counter to the Staff Regulations of the Belgian Railways and the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways. Minister, I am not asking you about the press article, but about the facts that are being reported and that you can easily deny today. What is your firm's position on this case? Has this message been brought to your knowledge and accompanied by the approval of the head of Infrabel? What about the recruitment policy on the agenda at SNCB for the future? Have the unions been consulted on this specific issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u83	Madam President, Minister, my question is in line with Mr Cheron's question. I don't have a subscription to L.O.Echo, but I've also read the article. The question has already been sufficiently answered. Infrabel has asked HR Rail not to do statutory recruitments anymore and only to recruit contractual agents. Madam Secretary, I will come straight to my questions. What's the truth behind the article? Is it true that Infrabel wishes to switch to purely contractual recruitment? How was this decision made? Who was aware of this new recruitment policy? How does this choice fit within the famous 1926 law governing the railway regulations? Do you support this choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm to you that any misunderstanding that might have arisen from the mail you are referring to has been rectified in clear terms and that there is no longer any ambiguity in this regard. Infrabel and SNCB must comply with the regulatory framework applicable to them. The Law of 23 July 1926 generally provides for statutory recruitment and lays down the conditions under which non-statutory recruitment may be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u85	Madam President, I thank the Minister for this clear and precise answer. I'm going to read the 1926 law again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u87	Madam President, Madam Minister, Brussels-National Airport is the source of noise pollution to its residents, whether they live in the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region or the Brussels Region. However, the website making available to the public information about your action plan against these nuisances, as well as the draft action plan itself, is only available in Dutch, since it is the website of the Leefmilieu department, Natuur en Energie of the Flemish Region. Francophone residents of the airport, and more broadly those who live in the Brussels Region and Walloon Brabant likely to be affected by this plan, have no right to clear information on this subject. Of course, some municipal administrations, such as Waterloo, have made use of their Urbanism service to allow residents to consult these documents in French. However, they were only able to do so more than a month after the start of the public inquiry. I also consider that it is not up to a municipal administration to make public a draft action plan drawn up by a federal public service which is supposed to be provided in both languages. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you please let me know why your draft action plan on noise pollution at Brussels-National Airport was only available in Dutch, despite the national status of the airport? What municipalities have been notified of the existence of the public inquiry into this project? When and on what channel did this information take place? When will the results of the survey that collected the citizens' comments on this draft plan be available from November 16, 2015 to January 15, 2016? In all cases, minister, I invite you to analyze these results taking into account the homes of the citizens who participated in the investigation. There is no doubt that the lack of information and the language barrier will have prevented many of the airport's residents from participating as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u88	I do not understand why the two questions were merged, because they have a completely different content. I didn't decide that. Madam Minister, the Flemish government has drawn up an action plan for environmental noise for Brussels Airport. After all, a European directive obliges Flanders to protect its residents from nuisance. The plan is not received directly on applause in the spacious environment, to say it with a euphemism. Many objections have been raised. The most important reason is that the Flemish government has no control over a number of crucial factors. After all, the runways and routes used are federal matters. The municipality and action groups therefore, in my view, rightly state that a cooperation agreement should be drawn up with the federal government. The Flemish Minister for the Environment also believes that a cooperation agreement is necessary. She sent you a letter in October 2015, asking you to be involved in a sustainable solution to the airport problem. In my opinion, whether it should be from a very recent date, Flanders has so far received no reply. My questions are very simple, Madam Secretary. Why didn't Flanders get an answer yet? In the meantime, is there any prospect of an agreement? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan referred to here comes from the Flemish Region, in accordance with Directive 2002/49. Since the airport is located in the Flemish Region, the latter is responsible for transmitting and consulting the action plan to the European Commission. I therefore invite you, Mrs Caprasse, to ask my colleague Schauvliege about this specific subject. I can agree to a cooperation agreement. This element will form part of the overall solution for managing the nuisance caused by airport activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u90	Minister, I cannot accept such a short and evasive answer. The national airport is in Flanders, that's right, but it's not a Flemish airport. It is a national airport which concerns all of Belgium, Dutch-speaking as well as French-speaking, and even all foreigners who pass there. Therefore, a public inquiry into our national airport must logically be conducted in both languages. In this regard, you can certainly use your influence. I hope that the results of the survey can be published in both languages, if only out of respect for the people who responded to the survey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u91	I note, Madam Secretary, that you are in favour of this cooperation agreement. I note, however, that it is not yet there. I note that you have not yet given an answer to the Flemish Minister for the Environment. At least that's what I'm distracting from your short answer. If I'm wrong, you'll certainly improve me. The Flemish Minister's question dates back to about four months ago. I keep wondering how much longer an answer will wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u92	Madam President, Minister, I tabled this question some time ago. In the meantime, a joint committee will be on the agenda next week, in which the Court of Auditors will present the reports. A number of cases from these reports have been circulating in the media for several weeks. Railway undertakings do not always fulfil their obligations. The TBL+ safety system would also not be compatible with the systems used by other railway operators. Are the media revelations correct and can you give an explanation? What's your reaction? When will the members of the Chambers get hold of the report? In the meantime, this report has already been overtaken by the fact that we have already read the report and the Minister's response, but perhaps you can give some explanation of what has been published in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u93	As you said, the debate will take place next week in Parliament. Like you, I was able to see that the draft report of the Court of Auditors had led to leaks in the press. With regard to the report requested by Parliament, I will not comment on the details published in the press on this subject. At the beginning of December I received the draft report from the Court of Auditors. After analysis, I submitted my comments to the Court of Auditors on certain conclusions and recommendations. The Court of Auditors is currently compiling the comments received from the various parties, including the SPF Mobility and Transport, Infrabel and SNCB. I can tell you that I largely share the conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. For example, I am aware that there is a need for even more effective monitoring of management contracts, that the objectives set out in the management contract must be accompanied by an obligation to achieve results and not merely a requirement for means, and that these objectives must be formulated in a more SMART way, i.e. specific, measurable, ambitious, realistic and time-bound manner. The various recommendations will be taken into account in the discussions on the future management contracts of Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u94	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We've already read the report. I am pleased that you believe that the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors in the forthcoming management agreement should be addressed and that we should move towards a management agreement with results commitments and clearly set measurable targets so that we can give companies a certain autonomy and make them sound. You can count on our support. We look forward to Tuesday's committee and the draft management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u95	Madam President, Minister, the Quiévrain station is currently the subject of many concerns among users. Its lamentable state and information about the possible closure of the window and passenger infrastructure are regularly reflected in the discussions. Today, this station, which is an important place of passage for pupils and commuters from all over the Haut-Pays and Quiévrain region going to Saint-Ghislain, Mons and Brussels, is limited to an old 19th-century building giving an image of abandonment. It is completely closed, tagged, lifeless, soulless and really repulsive. In addition, its final closure is announced in March 2016, which I am deeply concerned about given the consequences this could have for maintaining the Quiévrain-Mons line and the number of students and commuters impacted by such a measure. Minister, do you have any information about the closure of the Quiévrain station? Do you confirm this as of March 1, 2016? If so, do you intend to review this closure given its negative impact on students and cross-border commuters using it? What is the consequence for the Quieurrain-Mons line? Will a train continue to stop there and make the connection to Mons? Can you reassure the commuters using it? What about the fate of the staff? In a context where it is hoped to make railways attractive and encourage people to use public transport, it is difficult to imagine leaving a station in such a state. Do you intend to take initiatives to allow for its restoration and improve the reception of travellers in Quiévrain? I know that in the past projects have been co-managed by the municipality. Do you have any information on the status of these projects and the restoration file of the Quiévrain railway station?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u96	Mr. Thiébaut, Quiévrain is one of the outlets whose closing of the windows was announced in May 2015, which will be effective on March 1st. The criteria prevailing at the time of decision-making remain valid. Maintaining an open window would correspond to an average inactivity rate of 78% for the operator. Users have a sales machine and online channels to purchase their transport tickets. Currently, the Quiévrain counter does not market cross-border tickets. These are sold at Saint-Ghislain station. The building of the Quiévrain railway station has been provisionally replaced by a container. When the windows close next, these facilities will be closed to the public in order to prevent vandalism. Travellers will be able to shelter under the marquise of the old building or in the two cabins located on the other platform. Since the latter are regularly subject to vandalism and, in particular, glass breakage, the tiles will be replaced by polycarbonate panels. As you said, the future of the old building has been the subject of special attention for several years. Negotiations have been held between SNCB and the municipality to allow SNCB to renovate and occupy the building, while maintaining the necessary services for rail customers. To date, due to a lack of sufficient budget on both sides to bring this project to a successful conclusion, SNCB will launch a real estate promotion campaign on a larger scale than the only building in question. This procedure will take into account the reception of rail customers, the integration of intermodality and soft modes as well as the revitalisation of the neighborhood by limiting itself to a moderate and thoughtful densification of the urbanisation of the grounds around the station. The closing of the counters has no impact on the service of the line. Staff will be assigned to the same functions at another station in the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u97	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand that the line and the Quieurrain stop are maintained. You're telling me that the window is occupied at 78% of the time...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u98	No! It's inactive at 78%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u99	However, when there is no longer any presence in such a dilapidated building, the feeling of insecurity is growing. That is why a presence, if only 25% of the time, would be sensible, especially during peak hours. I preside over the police area that covers the territory of Quiévrain and am therefore sensitive to this problem. Travellers who wish to take the train when it is dark feel insecure, especially as the building is in a pitiful state. Maintaining a portion of the staff on site still makes sense, although it is clear that for 78% of the time there are not enough passengers to make the station profitable. The real estate promotion project you're talking about, in partnership with SNCB and the municipality, we've been talking about it for a long time, but we have the impression that it doesn't materialize. It would be interesting to come and see on site the state of this station. That's a proposal I'm putting forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u100	The case has been in lethargy for a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u101	I hope he didn't die clinically and some electroshocks will do him good. I hope he wakes up significantly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u102	Madam President, Minister, on Thursday 14 January 2015, there would have been a meeting of the people responsible for preparing and preparing the minimum services. Apparently, only the design of the posters wasn't finished. Yesterday, during the course of the work, it was said that SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail would come to the committee to explain the various scenarios. It was not clear to me whether the trade unions would also be present and be able to take the floor. Is it true that the various scenarios were discussed on 14 January and are ready? What kind of minimum service is there? Is there a fixed schedule? Is the French example being followed? Are there any other models? Has the draft been drawn up in cooperation with the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u103	Important questions need to be raised about the feasibility of introducing a minimum service. In order to operate trains without endangering users or personnel, it is necessary to employ sufficient personnel in all places where this is necessary. As the authors of a white card mention in La Libre Belgique, the minimum service is also legally indefensible. The right to strike is based on ILO Convention No. 87 and the European Social Charter signed by Belgium. The right to strike is a fundamental right. In other countries, the minimum service does not satisfy users because it involves overloading trains, safety problems and tensions between workers and users. In France, for example, the RER of Paris was paralyzed by a strike, despite the minimum service. Therefore, my questions are as follows. What is the status of social dialogue on this issue? Then, do you intend to wait for the results of these consultations or to comply with the ultimatum set by certain components of your majority? I am thinking, for example, of our colleague here. Is a minimum service which is not the result of the social dialogue in line with ILO Convention No 87 and the European Social Charter? Indeed, it seems to me that this text provides for the establishment of a social agreement without which it is impossible to impose a minimum service. In practice, would such a service be applicable to SNCB? Compared to the source of the strikes, are you considering making non-marginal concessions in your rail reform plan, in order to favour dialogue and prevent strike movements? If so, what would these concessions be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u104	Madam President, Infrabel and SNCB jointly carried out a study on the provision of services last year. Three scenarios were developed. The choice of the scenario to apply depended on the number of staff employed. The plan was submitted to a steering committee with the trade unions, which rejected the plan. Trade union negotiations have not been able to reach any of the points on the agenda for months and in particular on the guaranteed service, mainly to challenge the measures to be implemented to increase productivity by 4%. Social consultation has since resumed and I intend to continue to favour social consultation, particularly on such a matter, which must meet specific organisational and operational requirements. I will propose to SNCB and Infrabel that they be shared with you on the basis of the three or even four scenarios developed. For the rest, it is up to the government to assess how to implement the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am not convinced that it can work. I do not want to open that debate today, but it is important for me that it can be held here in the Chamber. The wisdom of the various political parties will then become clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u106	Minister, I take note of your willingness to give priority to consultation on this minimum service issue, as opposed to certain components of the majority, who have expressed the will to force things. I don't know how this will work out in your majority. In any case, it should be recalled that it is often out of necessity that railway workers strike and not for pleasure, contrary to what is sometimes understood in your majority. I have the impression that with the demands you have, especially in terms of increasing productivity, you are putting oil on fire. And finally, you're responsible for the strike actions we're witnessing. The ideal would be to avoid having to apply a minimum service by not carrying out irreconcilable policies, on the one hand, with the demands and interests of railway workers and, on the other hand, with the needs of travellers. It is clear that the savings policies you apply affect each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u107	Madam Minister, in an earlier oral question I asked you about the reason for the resignation of twelve consultants, including seven syndicated representatives, active at Ixilio, the IT subsidiary of Infrabel. Since these syndicated representatives were entitled to a protection fee, a total of EUR 3.7 million had to be paid. That is why I have two additional questions. How many employees are employed at Ixilio? Is this indeed a medium-sized company with an employee quota of between 200 and 499 employees? The redundancies would not be motivated by economic reasons. The high remuneration would therefore be justified. According to labour law experts, this is indeed about redundancies for economic reasons. After all, there was no work available for those consultants. So there was no choice but to fire them. What is your personal view on this as a custody minister? What are the conditions for dismissal for economic or technical reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u108	The press reported redundancies within the NV Syntigo, subsidiary of Infrabel currently called Ixilio as a result of the sale of part of the company at the end of July 2015. The average number of staff in 2015 was 233. In December 2015, taking into account its business plan, Infrabel decided not to renew the assignments of twelve consultants, for whom there were no assignments and who belonged to Syntigo's internal staff, for the year 2016. The redundancy allowances paid shall be strictly in accordance with the relevant regulatory provisions. Among the dismissed persons were six staff representatives and one person not elected in the last social elections. According to Infrabel, the dismissal allowance due for those persons is replaced by a protection allowance granted to them by their statute. That protection allowance shall consist of a variable part, corresponding to the average monthly wage, multiplied by the number of months remaining until the end of the term of office, and a flat-rate part of two years' remuneration, where the employee is less than 10 years' seniority, up to four years' remuneration for a seniority of more than 20 years. All this led to the public limited company Ixilio having to spend EUR 3.7 million to fire 12 members of its staff. The redundancies were not motivated by economic reasons as if the company were in difficulty, but only by the fact that some persons were out of work on 1 January 2016. There is no question of amending the legal framework. No other union representatives have been fired in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u109	Madam Minister, I hear you saying that everything has been done in accordance with the rules and that it is not about dismissal for economic reasons. It's been noted. The dismissal protection of syndicated representatives may be lifted for economic or technical reasons. One has to be recognized in advance by the Joint Committee. I find it rather odd that this form of dismissal was not invoked by Ixilio. Moreover, I find it particularly strange that the trade unions remained deafeningly silent when no less than seven of their representatives were dismissed. I think there's already been a stop at the track for less.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u110	Minister, SNCB's rate increases as of February 1st are allowed by the fact that SNCB would have achieved an increase in punctuality performance. This is apparent at first sight from the statistics, but it is felt that this increase in punctuality is allowed by a double pass-through. The first pass round concerns the increase of the journey time thanks to the transport plan. If travel times are increased, it makes sense to improve punctuality, but that's not why travellers get to their destination faster. The other pass tower is the removal of trains. A train that is deleted is not late! It makes sense, but it doesn't matter to travellers. In ten years, the number of trains abolished has tripled. There has been an increase from 7,000 trains abolished per year to more than 20,000 since 2009. Minister, do you not find that punctuality performance is distorted by the two elements mentioned above? Do you not think, therefore, that the punctuality criteria which may lead to price increases should be reviewed? Do you not fear a negative impact of these tariff increases on the attractiveness of the railway? By way of comparison, De Lijn conducted a study which showed that, with a 1% increase in fares, the demand for tickets decreased by 1%. Do you have a similar study on the link between price developments – up or down – and transport demand at SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u111	Dear colleague, with regard to the increase in its rates on 1 February 2016, SNCB informs me that it strictly applies the legal framework set out in its management contract and that the financial result is based on the volume of travel carried out. No further rate increases are expected in 2016. The journey times have not been adapted in order to artificially increase the regularity of trains, but to take account of three things: the increase in the occupancy of trains and consequently the increase in the time required for embarkation and disembarkation, the buffer times necessary to integrate the proper execution of infrastructure work into the timetables, and the journey times of the most penalising equipment, often double-stage cars M6 at peak times. As regards the abolition of trains, the punctuality objective set out in SNCB's 2008-2012 management contract, on which the calculation of the possible adjustment of tariffs is based, takes account of trains which have been abolished, which are directly assimilated to late trains. Since 2012, the 92% punctuality target, to be compared with the overall unweighted index, has been maintained but expressed as a weighted target taking account of train occupancy. A correspondence between the objective expressed in the initial index and the objective expressed in the weighted index shall be established each year to ensure quality equivalence and shall take de facto account of the number of trains deleted. According to SNCB, deleted trains are not included in punctuality figures in other countries. In the 4th Management Contract Amendment dated 17 January 2014, it was decided that the punctuality target from which a rate increase could be applied on 1 February of year X would be based on the weighted index calculated from July of year X-2 to June of year X-1. I hope you're still following me. This index takes into account the number of passengers on trains, destination, time and day of the week. The next management contract is currently under negotiation. All criteria and obligations are discussed in these negotiations. SNCB knows the relative price sensitivity of its customers through its sales history for its different customer segments. In addition, in the annual price adjustment, SNCB aims to preserve product targets with a very high price sensitivity. A general price increase of equal order of all products and segments is not considered. In the case of home-to-work subscriptions, the price sensitivity is low, as the amount to be paid is divided between the employer, the employee and, possibly, the State on the basis of the third-party principle of 80-20.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u112	Minister, I told you there were two tricks, but you're telling me that's not the case. I still have the impression that you committed a third one invoking weighted punctuality. Indeed, this is another way of calculating punctuality. You are telling me that its best consideration will be discussed when the next management contract is drawn up. However, you do not include the previous reflections in this regard. As far as the impact of prices on the attractiveness of the railway is concerned, you are replying that SNCB is well aware of it. Either, but I was the one asking you the question, and not the railway company. So you didn't answer me. I asked you if there are any reference studies on this. Lijn does, but is that the case with SNCB? Does it publish the results? I find that I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u114	The minister says you will need to ask a more specific question about possible studies in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u115	The 'one man car' project, which consists of driving trains without an attendant, causes a lot of ink to flow and particularly upset the railway workers, as you probably know. This poses many technical concerns such as the height of the docks, for example, but more fundamentally, it poses enormous safety problems. There are two aspects to safety: rail safety, the risk of accidents, but also the risk of aggression. These are two different concepts of safety, but the two problems arise in this project. In England, lines operating in this way concentrate the largest number of accidents: 70% of accidents on 40% of lines. An example is a passenger dragged by a train and seriously injured. As far as safety is concerned, another negative example comes from France: the French media report stories of rape and sexual assault on trains. One SNCF worker testified that with the generalization of these trains, assaults could increase. In Belgium, ticket control is only fourth in the tasks of the train attendant. The other tasks relate to security. The PTB gathered testimony on these issues and in particular this one: "This morning, two of my accompanying colleagues rescued a traveller who was having a heart attack on the train... Without their presence, what would have happened?" Many elements are therefore critical of this project. My questions are therefore as follows. Have you carried out a comparative study with other countries that already use one man car before launching its implementation in Belgium? If the safety of users is one of your priorities, how do you intend to reconcile it with the one man car? What are you considering as a device to avoid an increase in the number of attacks? Finally, do you have an estimate of the costs of work related to the introduction of one man car? For example, the upgrading of the wharfs, the installation of security portals, etc.- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u116	Dear colleague, the working groups and steering groups of the driver only operation (or one man car) are composed of experts from SNCB on this subject and members of the senior management. The steering group is chaired by the Director General of the Transport Directorate. In addition, consultations are also held with experts from Infrabel and SSICF. No concrete decision has yet been taken on the movement of trains without attendants. All operational, commercial, legal and regulatory implications, as well as security implications, are under review. The following elements are the subject of a study, among others: the departure procedure, the safety of the downstream route, the PMR operations, the monitoring of the area around the car body, the control of transport tickets, communication with travellers, the sense of passenger safety, the necessary investments in rolling stock and dock equipment, potential adaptations to legislation and regulations, and the risk analysis and safety dossier. The exact date on which work on this study will be completed is not yet known and will depend on the progress of some files. The results will first be communicated to the SNCB Management Committee and Board of Directors. No concrete decision has yet been taken under the DOO project and a large number of elements still need to be clarified. Within SNCB, we are looking at how the operation of the DOO is going in many other European countries, including the Netherlands, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland, all of which have a very safe rail system. When a specific operational runway is ultimately chosen, the runway will be subject to a risk analysis to obtain authorization to operate trains without an attendant. The overall gain at least equivalent should be approved. This means that the DOO's level of security will have to be at least equivalent to the current level of security. Safety is therefore a key criterion and if it cannot demonstrate a sufficient level of safety, SNCB will never be able to operate these trains in DOO. Passenger safety will be ensured in particular by means of an alarm button, a targeted assignment of Securail agents and controllers, in this case the ticket control teams called "ICTO teams".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u117	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take it that no concrete decision is taken, but you're already talking about alarm buttons. We're really nowhere but we already know there'll be an alarm button. That sounds a little strange to me. What is positive is that you are telling me that the level of security must be at least equivalent to the current level of security. I assume you mean railway safety and not passenger safety in relation to possible aggression. One of the many concerns on this issue is the issue of security. This may not solve all the other problems that I have raised, but if we could fix this one, it would be a good thing already. To refer to our previous question, I hope that we will not play with the notions of safety as we play with the notions of punctuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u118	Minister, my question will be very short because the answer to this question has already been given Monday morning at the Residence Palace. I can only see it by chance. I'm not inclined to see conspiracies everywhere. I am pleased that the answer has been given. My question was: What about this important study commissioned by the Mobility FPS in 2011 on an exciting subject, that of intermodality in the metropolitan area, this area that has major congestion problems for which an appropriate response must be provided? The study in question is called Rail4Brussels. I was wondering about his future. Where is she? Since Monday, we have the answer. So I'm not asking you any more about his existence. I know! I almost met her! On the other hand, one issue remains relevant. We know that you convened the Intermodality platform around the 20th of February. Will you use this important study? I was able to go through it and it includes a series of interesting elements that, I know, will interest you as well. Will it be included in this debate? Will it serve as a basis for further reflection on the issue of intermodality in the area? Finally, has the Brussels-Capital Region been associated with the results of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u119	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mr Cheron's questions. We were also able to read about this study in the Dutch-speaking press, which was apparently commissioned by the FOD. Have you been involved in drawing up the recommendations? I assume so, given that in your answer to question No. 8499, item 8 on our agenda, said that there is a certain loyalty and a good understanding between the FOD, on the one hand, and your cabinet, on the other. I had prepared the question what your vision is on the integration of tariff systems, price differentiation, distributions and so on? Having regard to your previous answer to Question No 1, by Mr Lalor, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8499 I assume your vision is in line with the recommendations of the study. I'll go straight to my other questions. Is there a budget attached to that study? I find the proposals interesting, but in the case of questions about e.g. electrification of a line in the Kempen, reference is made immediately to the multiannual plan 2016/2020. I also had a question to ask for the study to be delivered to Parliament. Since she's already circulating publicly, I don't think it's necessary anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u120	Your question concerns a study in which the improvement of the rail transit and the rail service of the Brussels-Capital Region was proposed. This study was carried out by the consortium Technum, VUB and Espace mobility under the coordination of the SPF Mobility and Transport. My strategic cell was associated, like regional firms and other stakeholders, with the progress of the study, but it is not up to me to validate the conclusions of the study. A budget of €210,479.5 has been allocated. In any case, I note the conclusions of the study that there is not a single solution to the mobility problem in, around and towards Brussels, but that by combining a series of measures, it is possible to improve things in the short term. Alternative solutions should be sought that go beyond the construction of new infrastructure, such as a new tunnel in the North-Midi junction. I have already expressed my wish that the results of this study be presented in the context of the work of the intermodal platform bringing together mobility actors under the auspices of the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility, which meets on Friday next week. The various alternatives proposed may be explored. The Brussels-Capital Region, which was closely involved in the working groups organised as part of the study, will be informed through the platform. I am, of course, prepared to deliver the results of the study directly to the members of the committee. These can already be consulted on the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport under the Publications section.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u121	I thank the minister and would like to reassure her: I have already been able to consult the study in question, as well as the press kit. As regards the Nord-Midi junction, one of the alternatives is the development of the ATO and the exploitation of the technical possibilities offered by this system for the Nord-Midi junction. It is a question of 20% additional efficiency, which is not nothing and could justify not digging a tunnel under the tunnel or making an expansion that Ms. Lalieux would not like above her pedestrian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u122	And it costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u123	Yes, it is. Finally, for once we are almost all in agreement, let us rejoice. I am pleased that this study exists. Of course, we do not expect it to be taken by letter, but at least it serves as a support, given its price. It's not nothing and I'm thinking, in another life, I'd be a good consultant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u124	It's always time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u125	Above all, use the available studies to move towards a range of solutions, which do not always go through infrastructure. Better use of infrastructure - Mr Cornu pleads for this with great intelligence - is an essential element in the debate. I hope that we will be able to contribute constructively to the construction of these solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u126	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I can only confirm the constructive attitude of the opposition. Sometimes I think the opposition is more constructive than the majority, but that is my personal conviction. One can certainly discuss a number of points in the study, but it must not collect any substance, especially in view of the cost of the study. However, we must consider whether a number of proposals cannot be worked out. If not, it would be a waste of all the money that went there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic339x.u127	The minister will come to answer the questions again in fifteen days.
