ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u1	Minister, I congratulate you because this is the first time I have had the opportunity to question you in your new position. It is my responsibility that requests for information in the German language are almost never dealt with within the Mobility FPS. According to my information, the department in charge of the responses would have a quota of e-mails to answer but not necessarily answer all e-mails entering the administration. That makes sense to me. Very often, therefore, we simply do not respond to the requests of our German-speaking fellow citizens. That, on the other hand, is a little more worrying to me. Another problem in this regard would be the fact that the mail dispatching plant would not understand the German-language mails and the latter would not be properly dispatched within the FPS. Mr Minister, my question is therefore very simple: would it not be possible to set up an e-mail address for our German-speaking fellow citizens so that their requests are processed by people in your administration who have mastered the language of Goethe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u2	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, the FPS informs me that the processing of requests for information by email at the Mobility and Transport FPS is carried out in two ways. On the one hand, there is an information desk for vehicle registration issues (the DIV) which can be reached via their help.div@mobilit.fgov.be. These issues have been separated from centralized requests for information in view of the large number of requests processed by this service. German-language questions to the IVD are dealt with by the German-speaking collaborators of the Eupen branch. On the other hand, general requests are processed through a central information desk via the address info@mobilit.fgov.be. No difference shall be made with respect to applications in the German language. The SPF's commitment to respond to this within 10 days via a centralized system is valid in the same way as for other language roles. In 2014, the SPF received 16 questions in German out of a total of 13,577 questions. For almost 90% of these, the above response time was met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. For IVD, I knew there were no problems. So I hear that, statistically, there's no real problem. I am glad to hear that, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u4	Mr Minister, the rumour of a possible abolition of line 42 is unfortunately still circulating in the south of my district – that of Verviers – and raises, if not panic, at least some fears. Indeed, this rumour is very worrying for the users of the train in this region. That is why, Minister, I would be grateful if you could shed some light on this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u5	Madam Member, as my predecessor had had the opportunity to mention by answering a number of written questions, there is no intention of abolishing the service on line 42. This will be part of the obligations that will be included in the SNCB management contract. Infrabel also informs me that important work on the renewal of railway infrastructure has been undertaken on the same line in recent years. These include the re-electrification of the line in early 2000, when most bridges and tunnels were also renewed. In addition to these construction sites, rock wall security work has been carried out. More recently, in 2014, the line's signage was completely modernized. In the current state of affairs, the operation of line 42 is therefore not in danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u6	Minister, that's very good. I see that we are investing and believing in the future. It's beautiful. I am reassured and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u7	Minister, in 2015, sick leave would have cost SNCB €45 million, compared to €38.4 million in 2013. An analysis of the figures by province further reveals that SNCB agents based in Hainaut were more than 70% not to take up their service at least one day, compared with only 59% in West Flanders. In general, absences are also longer in Wallonia than in Flanders. As a result, Liegeian agents are absent on average 17.3 days, compared with only 8.9 days for agents in the province of East Flanders. To stem this phenomenon, SNCB has already implemented several measures in recent years. In particular, the policy of checking the veracity of medical certificates has been strengthened, and a prevention campaign has been undertaken. Another pilot project is currently under way in several workshops across the country to meet with those most exposed to absenteeism and thus determine the reasons for this behaviour. Minister, what causes do you think could justify such disparities in absenteeism rates and in the duration of absences across the country? Has your department already undertaken an evaluation of the measures currently being implemented by SNCB to reduce the increase in the cost of absenteeism? If so, what are the conclusions? When do you expect to receive the findings of the current pilot project? Are other measures currently under consideration within your departments to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, according to HR Rail, the differences between the Belgian provinces in the indicators of absenteeism also exist within the Belgian railways. This is a well-known data that is also included in the annual reports of Securex, Medex and SD Worx. To explain these differences, few scientific studies are available. In summary, it could be said that health is a complex phenomenon resulting from interactions between many factors, including socio-economic context, individual social status, cultural habits and lifestyle, genetic factors, public health policies and disease management, according to the Scientific Institute of Public Health. With regard to absenteeism to the Belgian railways, the following actions were undertaken by the HR Department. There are five of them: the communication of indicators of absenteeism to the various entities; the development of a model of absenteeism as a reference framework for actions; the establishment of indicators and figures for absenteeism 2015 and the communication of indicators at the level of the Prevention and Protection at Work Committee; the launch of pilot projects at SNCB and Infrabel; and the forthcoming organisation of a seminar on burn-out. The HR Department indicated that the evaluation of these actions would follow later. These are the things I could give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u9	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I agree with the minister that it is obviously very difficult to find the scientific reasons for such disparities. I found the answer very interesting. I'll read it again with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u10	Madam President, Minister, on 4 May 2013 a freight train with chemical products on board derailed in Wetteren. An investigation showed that the train driver was in error, because he drove 80 kilometers per hour where he was allowed only 40 kilometers per hour and also ignored a stop signature. On 23 July 2015, all injured parties received a letter stating that the driver had died. The driver can no longer be prosecuted. The death of the driver makes DB Schenker, the transport company, largely liable. For the time being, however, that company is not inclined to pay the invoice. The transport company asked for an additional technical examination to examine, inter alia, whether or not the tracks were in perfect technical condition at the time of the accident. Infrabel has now pre-financed the performance of companies to which it has entrusted itself, as well as the costs associated with necessary and urgent measures to reduce the damage. In the meantime, Minister, three years after the disaster, we are the following questions. Has there been any clarity about the responsibilities of the disaster? Are the results of the technical examination of the changes in the tracks already known? If so, can Infrabel be held liable? Why is that, or why not? Have all the victims been compensated in the meantime? What is the total amount? Was all the damage settled and what is the total cost of it? Has Infrabel been able to recover the pre-financed amounts? If so, whose? If not, when and by whom will they be repaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Uyttersprot, Infrabel is not competent to comment on the responsibilities of the disaster or the state of the judicial preliminary investigation, which is in the hands of the investigating judge. Infrabel is also not aware of when the completion of the investigation is planned. For more information, please contact the competent judicial authorities. In addition to the direct vital costs incurred by the evacuated private neighbourhood residents, Infrabel merely prefinances the performance of companies to which he himself has ordered, as well as the invoices resulting from urgent measures taken in the context of his duty to act as a good family father. The damage that Infrabel has thus already paid to third parties on behalf of whom it belongs is provisionally budgeted at 4 010 269, 87 euros. All the damage hasn't been settled yet. Infrabel could not estimate who would ultimately file a claim for what amount. Infrabel has not yet been able to recover the pre-financed amounts. All damage will eventually be recovered from the person responsible for the train accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u13	Minister, like Mr Jadin, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment as Minister. Let me come to my question. Your predecessor showed several times interest in the placement of access tracks in the stations for security reasons. It was an investment of about 57 million euros. In addition, there were annual recurring costs of x million euros. Neighboring country France decided after the terrorist acts to install access trails but now returns to that decision. They're looking for other solutions there now. In our case, SNCB is investigating its usefulness. She also confirms that on social media. Without prejudice to the importance of interventions for safety in our stations, I would like to ask what the added value of the gates is for safety. Unfortunately, the gateways to the Maalbeek metro station have not been able to stop the terrorists. Moreover, there are purely practical problems. Some platform accesses serve as a link between different parts of the city, such as the station of Leuven. Access to the platforms is also an access road to the city and even an important bicycle connection. In other stations such as Antwerpen-Central there are commercial spaces in the station hall which gives access to the platforms. They are not only visited by train passengers but also by other customers. Can you explain the SNCB's investigation into the access tracks? What is your view on this? Will you place the gates for national or also for international transport? Do you have a reliable view of the cost? How do you avoid queues, which also create a security risk? How do you ensure that platform access that serves as access to districts and commercial areas remains accessible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u14	I have already asked several questions about the safety tracks, because I do not think they do much. I am pleased to note that other Members of this House also take this view. Your predecessor went all the way to Spain. She wanted those gates. From her answers, I could see that out of EUR 400 million for the fight against terrorism, EUR 58.5 million is being used for the security trails. On another budget line, 23.8 million euros will be taken for the installation of additional camera sets. In the question I tabled, I included your predecessor's answer. What is your view on this, given that, as Mrs De Coninck pointed out, the gates on the subway did not stop the attack there, a number of neighbouring countries come back to that idea and increase boarding time? I said from the beginning that it would not be wise to place gates. The placement requires a huge budget. In Spain it is still being obtained. Moreover, there is a very large impact for commuters. What's your opinion on that? Will you stick to your predecessor's request to the government to allocate EUR 58.5 million and EUR 23.8 million in the budget for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u15	A distinction should be made between access tracks, such as those in the Dutch stations and STIB, which mainly have a commercial function, and detection portals. As you point out in your question, such gateways run counter to the current open concept of the stations. It is clear that the access routes will not stop people with bad intentions. With a ticket you can easily access the station. Detection portals that only detect metal are not an option, as they would have too strong an impact on the traveler flux. Together with my colleague from the Interior, I am currently working on a solution that guarantees security while taking into account the necessary smooth flow of passengers and the individuality of the station as a public space. If the solution cannot provide guarantees for this, then we will only remove the problem, as demonstrated by the situation following the reopening of Zaventem airport. Portics with a form of detection of explosives or of ignition mechanisms are not common practice today and cannot yet be considered as proven technology. In the case of SNCB, it is considered whether this could be a realistic solution. I would also like to examine with my colleague from the Interior whether it is an option to pool expertise in a working group of relevant security and police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u16	In defining the security of the stations, account should also be taken of the interests of the traveller, who wants easy access to public transport. In addition, you are right to point out the commercial aspects of SNCB as a carrier on the one hand and the concession in the stations on the other. No, I have not yet seen the cost of the measure. The budget will be determined by the choices that will be made after all options have been studied. This is done on the basis of benchmarking and consultation of suppliers. Depending on the technology chosen and the decision taken at government level, the necessary financial resources will be released. The experience in Zaventem shows that it is indeed important not to simply move the risk derivatives. The model finally chosen will have to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I note that you are making the necessary considerations. I refer to the reaction of TrainTramBus to the idea of gates. The organisation said that millions of investments are now being made to reduce travel time by a few minutes, while the gates destroy those investments. This is an important aspect, which must be taken into account, along with the other aspects you mentioned in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your nuanced reply. Het is belangrijk dat u shade brengt, want uw voorgangster zei het volgende: It is true that I have asked the government to allocate EUR 58 million to put in place a system of measures to protect against terrorist acts on the railways, i.e. the installation of portals". But now I hear a minister who is much more nuanced and also questions the allocation of such a amount of money, with limited results and with a major impact on travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u19	Minister, the path fee is an important instrument that determines both supply and financial flows within companies. In a recent opinion, the Train Passengers' Consultative Committee issued an opinion on the charging for the use of railway infrastructure, in short, the infrastructure fee. In our country this fee is very high, which actually has a reverse effect. As a result, SNCB is limited in increasing the supply of trains. The opinion can be summarised briefly in such a way that, on the one hand, Infrabel would receive a higher share of the total operation and that this would allow them to reduce the lane fees for, among other things, SNCB. Previously, CEO Cornu of SNCB argued in favour of this thinking. On the other hand, the proposal contains a solution which would prevent the consolidation of Infrabel's debt with that of the government because the reduction in infrastructure compensation is part of the federal government agreement. The government agreement also states that this should not lead to the consolidation of Infrabel's debt. The Committee shall also make an interim request. They ask that SNCB be allowed to increase its train offer in the meantime without having to pay a noticeable increase in the infrastructure fee, pending the introduction of the new calculation of the infrastructure fee. Minister, I have a few questions for you. What is your response to the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers? How do the two railway companies respond to these recommendations? What measures are being taken to reduce infrastructure charges? Finally, does Infrabel wish to participate in the track of the interim request, in particular to allow a higher number of trains by SNCB without significantly increasing the infrastructure fee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u20	Mrs De Coninck, the FPS Mobility and Transport, Infrabel, SNCB and my cabinet have just received the opinions of the Advisory Committee of Train Passengers. I would like to thank the Committee for its extensive work. The proposals are now being examined by everyone. I asked for a meeting to be held between the companies, the FPS Mobility and Transport and my cabinet to discuss these proposals in the context of the preparation of the upcoming management contracts and the ongoing revision of the remuneration. SNCB and Infrabel will provide us with their feedback within the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u21	Indeed, Minister, it is perhaps too early to have a reaction from the companies. I will certainly continue to follow it up, because we are convinced that it has been said several times in this committee that determining that path fee will be an essential element in the management agreement and in the offer for rail passengers. We will therefore continue to follow this up in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u22	Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior on 27 April on the safety of Securail's trains and stations and arms, Minister Jambon replied as follows: "I sat with the new Minister for Mobility last week. I asked him to think about the integration of Securail into the police force. The motivation dixit Minister Jambon:..We are working on a special management within the police who will receive security orders, the Security and Surveillance Directorate. In addition, there are a lot of police staff present at the stations today, especially in international stations, and there are also many people from Securail. This, I believe, is a little too much of a good thing. If everyone has only a part of the power, one gets a real fragmentation. My view is that we need to integrate these things. I have a few questions for you, Minister. First of all, did that maintenance take place effectively? Do you share the vision of your fellow minister to integrate Securail into the railway police? Is that a realistic slope? Secondly, are there any concrete plans? If so, is there a timing? Thirdly, Securail was established to address the specific safety issues on the railway domain. These contracts are clearly described in the management contract and linked to a donation. Additional tasks have been assigned to this body since the establishment of Securail. What future will Securail have? Is this still controlled by SNCB or not? What will be the result for the workforce? How does the staff of Securail relate today to that of the railway police? Madam President, so far my very, very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u23	My question follows on from this, Minister. I have also heard that there has been a discussion between you and your colleague from the Interior. The Minister of the Interior showed his willingness to reflect on the integration of the railway police and Securail. This would bring several benefits. At present, the available resources are spread across both security services. Mr Geerts has also mentioned this fragmentation. The cooperation between Securail and the railway police is not always optimal today. The lifting of this division can, in my view, partially solve this. There is also discussion as to whether or not Securail's agents should and should have a weapon. For this purpose, Topman Cornu of SNCB sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior. Minister, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, how do you feel about integrating the railway police with Securail? Why wouldn't you want to integrate? Secondly, what are the possible alternatives to Securail? Finally, for what reasons does SNCB intend to equip its Securail agents with a weapon? In your opinion, is this intention proportionate to the tasks now assigned to Securail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u24	Madam President, Minister, in the Infrastructure Committee of 2 March 2016, a number of members asked your predecessor questions about the security of our stations. I referred, among other things, to the SNCB proposal that was delivered to Home Affairs and Mobility Ministers at the beginning of January 2016. It included several options to improve safety in our stations, but without hindering access to the train. In particular, I advocated streamlining the security issue at European level, for example the installation of access barriers. Indeed, at the end of April 2016, I asked the Minister of the Interior about the possible integration of Securail personnel into the railway police. Your fellow Minister for the Interior stated quite literally that he had asked you to think about the slope of integration. He himself is in favour of integration. He also explained why. According to him, there are already a lot of police personnel present in the stations today, especially in international stations. Moreover, the people of Securail are also walking around in the stations. He thinks that's a little too much of a good thing. My questions are as follows. Firstly, have any conclusions been drawn from the various proposals put forward by SNCB to improve the security of our stations? If yes, what conclusions were drawn? If not, what's the timing? Secondly, what is your position on the integration of Securail personnel into the railway police? What steps will you take if you are in favour of integration? If you are not in favour of the idea, what are your considerations? Thirdly, can you give me figures of the number of employees currently employed by Securail or the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u25	Madam President, as I did in the Infrastructure Committee of 27 April 2016 at question No. Mr Devin's reply is that it is up to the government to consider a possible rapprochement between Securail and the railway police. Before that, there should be consultation with all interested parties. However, I would like to emphasise that I believe that Securail should maintain its link with the rail sector. Even if the police and Securail services have to be fully complementary, their priorities and even their tasks are not necessarily the same. I will not fail to inform you of the views of the various parties and of any proposals made by the government after the consultation. Securail services have 540 full-time equivalents. For the figures on the railway police, please refer to my colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u26	I thank the Minister for his reply. I also think that there are specific tasks for Securail. I should like to draw your attention to this question. For the sake of clarity, at the beginning I quoted the words of Minister Jambon. They don't immediately reflect my vision. However, attention must be paid to the matters covered by the management contract and for which a donation is granted, for the immediate cutting of the link between these two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u27	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Minister for the Interior now raises this issue with a view to better responding to security and integration. There is also another matter that we need to consider. If the domestic rail market is liberalised, we will have security agents in the stations recruited by one of the railway operators. I believe that, in the context of liberalisation, this can cause problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u28	In my turn, I would also like to thank the Minister for his answer, which basically deals with the integration of Securail and the railway police. However, my question was also about the improved security of our stations. We were talking about this in March. I didn't really get an answer to my question on this. The whole point is that, after the sad attacks, SNCB has given the signal that there is a need to step up the security of our stations. SNCB asks, among other things, for the possibility to carry out identity checks and search with explosives dogs. Those are concrete questions from the company. We are now mid-May 2016. It seems interesting to me to know whether or not a decision has been taken and to give a state of play on the adaptation of security in our stations. If you cannot give the answer to that question today, I will return to that in another question. This is an important point on which we have to be clear here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u29	Mr Minister, on 2 July 2015, under your predecessor, we adopted a resolution on the provision of services to SNCB for persons with reduced mobility. The resolution laid down a number of measures to be included in the new management contract. The resolution received broad support in Parliament; the new management contract of SNCB is not available for the time being. At the beginning of this year, SNCB reduced the reservation time to three hours before it was 24 hours at a number of stations. That is a step in the right direction, but we do not think that the work is finished. In the Netherlands the reservation time is only one hour. SNCB was also criticised that the new M7 vehicles would not be suitable for persons with reduced mobility. Among other things, the Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers made a number of recommendations in an opinion on this subject. What progress has been made, Minister, in implementing the measures provided for in the resolution adopted on 2 July? Are other new measures for persons with reduced mobility included in the management contract? What is the timing of the management contracts? What are the recommendations of the passenger associations regarding the M7 order followed by SNCB? What recommendations could not be accepted? What's the explanation for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u30	Negotiations on the management contract are still ongoing. In addition to the supervision of persons with reduced mobility, the draft management contract includes measures for the equipment of the stations. Because of the reduction of the reservation time to one hour, you make the comparison with the Netherlands, but the operating conditions are very different there. High platforms are available almost everywhere. This remains a long-term objective of SNCB. With regard to the card free of charge escort.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... SNCB has also informed me that it wishes the National High Council for Persons with Disability to remain its unique point of contact for all groups and associations working for less mobile travellers. The new M7 double-deck vehicles will certainly comply with the latest European regulations and will certainly meet the needs in terms of safety and infrastructure for people with reduced mobility. For example, if the PPE access doors of the M7BDX carriage are placed above the swivel gear, the ramp height is 119 centimetres, which means a high step from a high platform of 76 centimetres, but an even higher step is for the medium-high platforms of 55 centimetres and the low platforms of 28 centimetres. By placing the PPE access doors in the BDX carriages next to the swivel gear, a lower lift height can be offered. The exact step height of PPE in the BDX carriage is 62 centimeters compared to 119 centimeters for the access doors above the swivel gear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u32	Minister, I am delighted to ask you my very first question. A recent IBSR study shows that the Belgian driver has a certain tendency to speed up the days when road traffic is less dense, something that becomes particularly dangerous when the average speed exceeds the permitted limit. For example, on Sundays, people drive an average of 130 km/h. The main problem is not motorways, but major axes limited to 90 km/h where the average speed is almost systematically above the authorized speed. The V85 indicator is more than 20 km/h above 90 km/h. As everyone knows, speed increases not only the risk of an accident but above all its severity. The risk of a fatal accident is 16% for the passenger in an accident occurring at 70 km/h, it increases to 33% for 80 km/h. Minister, we know that road safety issues are mostly regionalized, but the publication of these statistics gives us the opportunity to ask you about your intentions and priorities. What are the first road safety issues on which you intend to act as the new Minister of Mobility? What do you think are the priority measures for prevention and repression in order to achieve the Belgian road safety objectives? Have you ever had an opportunity to meet with your regional colleagues in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u33	I will refer to the measures proposed in the general road safety states of 15 December 2015. In this context, my administration is currently considering five measures as a matter of priority which aim to increase safety on our roads: limiting the maximum permitted alcohol level in blood to 0.2 g/litre of blood for inexperienced drivers; the obligation to make more systematic use of alcohol recidivists driving with anti-start ethylotest; the impact of the costs of alternative penalties on offenders; the reduction of fraud in road transport through better coordinated and targeted controls; and the creation of a consultation platform for accident prevention. In order to improve road safety, I will mention a number of projects under way: - the creation of a database of immediate paid perceptions in order to identify repeat offenders for whom severe penalties have been applied since 1 January 2015; - collaboration in the development of a code of good practice, in order to create the conditions for the implementation of autonomous and semi-autonomous vehicles; - linking the data banks of the Mobility and Transport FPS with those of the Justice Service in order to verify whether or not a driver is deprived of his or her right to drive; - support for the use of new technologies to make vehicles safer; - the modernization of the Road Traffic Code; - the systematization of the use of ANPR cameras which automatically recognise the registration plates and thus enable the vehicle to be checked for safety and in technical order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u34	Finally, my administration is currently developing a project to establish an institute to oversee in-depth road traffic accident research, in order to identify its causes and to enable appropriate measures to be taken to reduce its risks. Of course, these projects are carried out in close cooperation with the Regions and the various sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for this very developed answer. It's a lot of projects, a lot of work! I congratulate you and will, of course, follow you in this Parliament. In any case, I wish you an excellent job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u36	Mr Minister, on 27 April last you answered questions from Mrs Lalieux and myself concerning the implementation of a new road, known as RNP, for landings on runway 07L at Brussels National airport. This procedure worries environmentalists because of its significant environmental impact on the municipalities of Dilbeek, Jette, Laeken, Ganshoren and Schaerbeek; Laeken being not a municipality but Brussels-Cities. You then replied, I quote, "This is not a new road, but the application of a new technology, on an already existing landing axis. The procedures do not fall within the scope of the 2006 Act; your administration, DGTA, also believes that there is no need for an environmental impact assessment or for extensive consultation given the temporary nature of the situation." However, in a note from the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) sent on 8 March to your predecessor and signed by the then President of the FPS, but also by two directors, an assistant director and two heads of service, DGTA considers that this new procedure involves "legal risks". Indeed, DGTA notes that the approach route for the new procedure is in the centre line of Runway 07L, whereas it was previously oblique. According to the DGTA's note, this " amounts to setting up a new road from the point of view of its noise impact on the ground and hence from the point of view of environmental regulation". And the DGTA concluded: "The RNP procedure on track 07L must be subject to the rules prescribed by the 2006 law, which implies prior public consultation and impact assessment", "all the more so", continues DGTA, that "in relation to the oblique approach, an approach in the axis of the 07L would impact a significantly greater number of people." We're talking about 300,000 people here. Given the time required for such an evaluation, DGTA recommended that your predecessor implement this procedure in the short term only under three very strict cumulative conditions: to ensure that Belgocontrol establishes proof that the RNP procedure must be put in place immediately for aviation safety reasons during the period of runway work 19/01; to prove the strictly temporary nature of the RNP procedure (limited in time to the duration of the work, thus justifying a possible derogation from the 2006 law); to ensure that DGTA has access to the Belgocontrol data to ensure that the RNP procedure is strictly subsidiary." Therefore, do you confirm the response you gave us on 27 April, indicating that the DGTA felt that there was no need to submit the new RNP procedure to an impact assessment? Why such a discrepancy between your comments in April and the content of DGTA's March 8 note? Has Belgocontrol since then provided your administration with proof that the RNP procedure must be put in place immediately for aviation safety reasons during the period of runway work 19/01? Do you confirm the strictly temporary nature of this procedure and therefore the current nuisances in the north and north-east of Brussels? What concrete steps have been taken to enable DGTA to have access to the Belgocontrol data in order to ensure that the RNP procedure is strictly subsidiary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u37	I confirm that, in its note of 8 March 2016, DGTA indicated that the establishment of the RNP procedure on Runway 07L is allowed as long as the RNP procedure is temporary, as it is limited to the duration of the work. It is useful to clarify in this regard that the note of 8 March should be read in conjunction with the note of the DGTA of 22 January 2016 on the possible application of the 2006 law, the conclusions of which were very nuanced. Our position was confirmed by the judgment of 6 April 2016 of the Brussels Court of First Instance, which confirms that the instructions relating to flight routes are not subject to the obligations of the law of 13 February 2006, which corresponds to the position defended by the administration for years. Furthermore, I would like to remind the honourable Member that the internal notes to the administration may be covered by the duty of discretion and professional secrecy enshrined and sanctioned by article 458 of the Criminal Code. DGTA has received a document summarizing the theoretical benefits of these new RNP procedures. Unlike conventional non-precision procedures, RNP procedures provide vertical guidance with a continuous gradient in landing phases. This guidance reduces risks in flight and approach, for example in the event of poor visibility. For this reason, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) is requesting States to publish studies of RNP procedures at all international airports. During work on Runway 01/19, Runway 07L could be used more in the event of east and northeast winds. It is therefore preferable to have landing procedures on this runway that provide the best aviation safety guarantees. The so-called "supplement" instruction we have given indicates that the use of the RNP procedure is limited to the period of work on Runway 01/19, which will start at the end of July. As this procedure is not yet applicable today, it is not linked to any nuisances that would be present in the Noordrand and the north of Brussels. These nuisances are due to the fact that in recent days Runway 07L had to be used several times for landings due to weather conditions, including strong winds. In an instruction dated 15 March 2016, Belgocontrol was requested to transmit to DGTA the list of flights which will operate this procedure during the duration of the work. In addition, Belgocontrol is required to provide aviation inspection services with all the information required for the performance of their duties, in accordance with the third management contract and the applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u38	Minister, I do not have the January note; I would like to have it. It is the normal right of a parliamentarian to obtain internal notes of this kind. If I have to ask a written question to get it, I will gladly do so. The problem in this case is that Belgocontrol does not send the data that it must send to DGTA so that it can exercise control over Belgocontrol. This is one of the key issues in the overflight file. Belgocontrol does about anything she wants. In addition, you are talking about the installation of a technical system allowing the use of runway 07L in order to offer aviation safety guarantees, that is true. But this has a consequence: when you dot such a system a track that was previously less used because it did not have these technical characteristics, you increase de facto the potential use of this track; and when two tracks are parallel one can maximize its use. The difficulty for ecologists and residents today is that the possibility of seeing Brussels and its northern periphery overflew even more intensely is being increased. Finally, I believe that the overflight of the north-west of Brussels during this long weekend is not due to the implementation of this new runway and the RNP in 07L, but it gives an obvious foretaste of what the Brussels people will be able to undergo during the work of the other runway and possibly later, when Belgocontrol decides to activate more intensively the runway 07 flying over Brussels, in order to maximise its strictly economic investments, to the detriment of health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u39	Madam Chair, Minister, this is the first time I have had the opportunity to ask you a question. I welcome you in your new functions, a lot of success but above all a lot of courage for files that are unfortunately not easy. I will ask you regularly about a particular case: the RER. As Brabanons Wallons, this is a matter that is of particular interest not only to us Socialists, but also to all the MR mayors of the region. Remember when Mrs. Galant had made loud statements saying there would be no finalisation of the ER. It had made a lot of noise, even if it had been denied in the following days by the Prime Minister. As a result of all this imbroglio and the lack of information, I had written to Ms. Galant asking for an urgent meeting of all elected officials (provincial councillors, etc.) to be held.). Many motions had been tabled first by the Provincial Council, and then in the various municipalities of Walloon Brabant governed by both socialists and Liberals. I therefore hoped that a meeting would soon be set up with the elected Walloons so that we could discuss this issue and have a clear budget framework and timetable. We were also concerned, in the context of the budgetary adjustment, that no budget had been spent on this finalisation. The meeting was scheduled for Monday, 18 April. Unfortunately for her and fortunately for you, Mrs. Galant left us right before. So this meeting could never take place. So I would like to come back to you to find out when this one will be held. I would point out to you that this is really urgent and that there is a real need for information, an idea of a clear timetable for progress and a precise budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u40	Madam President, dear colleague, as you point out in your question, the cabinet of my predecessor, as well as experts from Infrabel and SNCB, met with the mayors concerned by lines 124 and 161 and visited each station or stop point in order to draw up together the state of work to be carried out in the short, medium and long term. The aim of these field visits was also to identify a set of customer-oriented facilities that could be carried out in the short term with a view to remedying the daily difficulties encountered by residents and travellers. It is clear that my objective is to ensure the completion of the four-track implementation of a programme to be presented. Currently, all funding solutions are being studied and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming days. Following several legitimate requests, a meeting was set up with the Governor of Walloon Brabant, Gilles Mahieu, and the parliamentarians of Walloon Brabant. This will take place on May 30th. On this occasion, a presentation of the overall state of the situation will be given with the help of Infrabel and SNCB. I hope to be able to answer all the questions and reassure you by presenting you with the program of finalizing the four-tracking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I take note that you are for this finalisation, which reassures me, that the file will soon arrive on the government table, which is another good news. I will be here on May 30 for this meeting. I invite you not only parliamentarians but also the provincial mayors and councillors who wish to do so. This is an important issue for our province, where everyone is asking for information. In order to avoid having a multitude of meetings, it would be interesting to bring together all the representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u42	Madam President, Minister, it is not my custom to ask questions about specific stations; I know that this is a problem. In these, however, the inhabitants will no longer know who to turn to. They usually address the city government, but they cannot answer. That is why I was asked to put that question to you. For several years the Drongen railway station has been under construction as part of the doubling of railway capacity on the main line between Brussels and the coast. In Drongen, the largest infrastructure works have already been completed. However, it is still waiting until 2025 for its completion. Only then will the third and fourth tracks be placed. The neighborhood residents have been stuck with these works for about six years now. So they have to wait until 2025 and are very disappointed that the situation is dragging on for so long. The station environment remains unfinished and in some places it really leads to decay, slipping and all that comes with it. Years ago, Infrabel told the Ghent city development company that it would sell the land behind the row of houses in the Bildekensstraat. SOGent, a city director, still has that intention and would like to buy up and then sell it to the neighboring residents. This is how people want to create goodwill. The land used by Infrabel during the work has been laid waste all along and no progress has been made. Hence the following questions. Why does it take so long before Infrabel can start the procedure for selling the land adjacent to the houses? When will Infrabel actually start the sale procedure? What procedure will be followed? Can the city make an estimate report available to potential buyers? Will the transfer of land within the planning established by Infrabel be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u43	Madam President, the sale procedure for the land in question can only start after the works have been completed. That is not yet the case. According to Infrabel's planning, the works will be finished by the end of 2017, mid-2018. The sale will be negotiated on the basis of a price set out in an estimate report from the so-called purchasing committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u44	Minister, it is good news that it is planned between 2017 and 2018 and not only in 2025. Thank you for your answer. I believe that we may not yet be able to send the inhabitants home with an explicit good, but already with a better message.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u45	The questions of Mr Devin (Nos. 11395, 11396, 11403, 11404, 11405, 11406, 11407, 11408) and Mr Piedboeuf (Nos. 11302 and 11363) were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u46	Mr Minister, my question concerns the bicycle points and the public procurement for their maintenance. Last Thursday a meeting took place at the board of B-station with the people of FIETSENWERK and the VVSG. A number of Members of Parliament, Mr Van den Bergh, a Flemish MEP from the Green Group and myself, also took part in the sitting. It was an interesting meeting in which we listened very maturely to each other's arguments, but without convincing each other. This is either along one side of the table or regrettable with a view to a future-oriented solution. Those in favour of cycling points consider networked mobility to be important and therefore bicycle points should be further financed. SNCB agreed to this, but did not feel that it should finance it, given the savings it faces. I do not doubt the sincerity of SNCB, because it is a political choice of the government to save and not of SNCB itself. There are three types of cycling points. A cycling point A with 1 200 passengers on board and more than 1 100 bicycle sheds, a cycling point B that meets one of these two conditions and a cycling point C that does not meet any of the conditions. A contract was launched through a public tender, with 50 points going to the price, 20 points to the opening hours, 20 points to the service level and 10 points for social employment. That is, of course, the problem. By allocating only 10 points in social employment, it is very difficult for local authorities to further develop that social economy. If tomorrow there is a regular cleaning company with a 50 % price they can probably win this contract. I find it regrettable and irresponsible that a public body should focus so little on this. Does the classification of the bicycle points remain as required by the scheme? Will this continue to be the case for the next five years? Why am I asking that question? A number of municipalities have invested in the past, thinking that the criteria would remain valid. They are now eligible, but they see that the criteria have changed. Is the savings at the cycling points essential in the global efficiency exercise? How much does SNCB spend on cycling policy in its entirety every year? What is the impact of this saving on cycling points? What is the cost-efficiency between a car park and a bicycle? How can you justify that only 10 points of social employment were given in the public tender? Was there not a legal possibility to conclude a framework agreement so that the social economy sector could still be supported, even in accordance with European directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u47	Mr Geerts, SNCB informs me that the classification in A, B and C is maintained. The service contracts for which the procedure is under way will run for a period of four years. For all activities within SNCB, the possibilities for optimising activities should be considered. Within the intermodality platform it will be considered to what extent cycling policy in combination with the train can also be supported by the Regions and the municipalities. According to SNCB, precise figures on the costs of cycling policy are not available. Nevertheless, I'll give you a few figures. SNCB invests annually in more than 2 000 additional bicycle sites at the stations. Moreover, the cost of cycling points in 36 stations is estimated at EUR 1 500 per year. In the other stations, the daily maintenance is also carried out by SNCB. The infrastructure for the stables also requires regular maintenance and repairs. As a function of the storage, SNCB also bears electricity costs, such as lighting and ventilation. SNCB provides parking spaces for bluebike stations and takes charge of the first investments. The current costs of contracts with bicycle points are two million euros per year. The cost of the new contract is estimated at EUR 1.5 million. The occupation at cycling point C is free of charge for the bicycle company, each year for about 5 000 euros. The cost of building a storage unit per parking space for bicycles varies according to the necessary architectural works. For a single storage with a canopy, construction costs 600 euros per parking space for a bike. For a parking space in a building, including the buildings, the cost is up to 2 000 euros per parking space for a bicycle. The construction of a ground-floor parking space for a car costs 6 000 euros, including lane and entrance. For a car park, the cost is estimated at €15,000 per car park and for an underground car park at €25,000. The area required for a bike parking space is % 1.5 m2 and for a car parking space % 23 to 25 m2. The task of SNCB is not to promote social employment. In view of the European call for applications, the mission cannot be reserved for the social economy. Therefore, that selection condition cannot be too decisive within the award conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your very specific answers. However, I have not been able to write down one figure. You mentioned the cost of 36 stations. I haven't been able to write that number down. I shall perhaps read it in the report. You mentioned 2 000 additional bicycle seats and then the cost of 36 stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u49	1 500 euros per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u50	Minister, congratulations! I had not yet had the opportunity to see you at the seat of the minister. According to the press and trade unions, reductions in trade union endowments of up to 45% are announced. Is there a risk that these endowments will be reduced? If so, how high? Is there a detailed and motivated plan of savings? What was the amount of this allocation for the last three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u51	In 2013, the allocation was €5,574,155; in 2014, the amount was €5,580,895 and in 2015, €5,586,355. The savings to be made on union allowances will reflect those made at SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. As a result, staffing will also be reduced as a result of the downsizing of staff in the three railway companies. Management is currently negotiating with representatives of trade union organizations with a view to concluding a new trade union agreement which will retroactively enter into force on January 1, 2016. We will not go into the details for the time being in order to give the concertation all its chances. These details were not communicated to me by the three companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the consultation is under way. We must be able to give it every chance to succeed. I hope that as minister of this beautiful public enterprise, you will be committed to ensuring that this consultation can continue under the best conditions and that the unions will therefore be able to have the necessary resources to carry out their work in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u53	Minister, last year 11 deaths were being considered. In a press release, Infrabel states that it has invested EUR 3 million in a new electronic call signal to consider, but that this has not had any impact on the number of road accidents. That's why Infrabel is considering the installation of flash poles. I have asked several questions about this in the past and sometimes provided solutions, such as placing an additional mandatory stop sign on a parallel road, so as to improve visibility. In many cases this has indeed been put in place, but we are left with a high number of deadly victims. In the railway action plan 2008-2015 it was initially budgeted that 200 considera tions would be abolished. I note that at the end of 2015 only 119 were abolished and that is unclear about the situation for 2016 and subsequent years. Mr Minister, are the newspaper reports on the evaluation of the new electronic signaling correct? What other measures, e.g. flashlights, are being considered? What would be the cost of installing flashlights or other measures? Who has the authority to do that? Can the railway undertaking set up flashlights or should cooperation agreements be concluded with the road manager, the regions or the municipalities? Are there any foreign examples? How do our neighbouring countries deal with this? What about a new action plan on the consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u54	Mr Geerts, in September 2014, the technical teams of Infrabel started to gradually install the new ringing sound to all those who have a bell. A total of 1 550 are considered and more than 3 100 new bells, on average two bells per road. This large-scale renewal operation fits in with the strategy to increase security to consider. On 2 May 2016, the last two reflections were equipped with the new ringing sound. Since the installation of the new ringing noise has only recently been completed, it is too early to evaluate the results of that measure. Once again, it is primarily the dangerous behaviour on the road that must be eliminated. Infrabel, however, has no control over that parameter, but only through awareness actions. On 1 October 2015, Infrabel brought together a new multidisciplinary working group called Overwegen, consisting of the railway police, the local police, the Belgian Road Safety Institute, the Roads and Transport Agency, the research body, the FPS Mobility and Transport, and the relevant services of Infrabel. At the meeting of the working group, Infrabel proposed his action plan. In addition to the working group, the following initiatives will be taken. Firstly, there are visual measures. In particular, road markings will discourage road users from slaloming around the barriers. Secondly, notification stickers will be applied to railway crossings. Thirdly, warning signs will be placed on congestion at railway crossings. The funding of red light camera dynamometers to consider depends on several factors. The purchase quantity of the cameras will have an impact on the purchase price. For some consideration, red light cameras are likely to be eligible for co-financing by the police, the Flemish or Walloon Region and Infrabel. The necessary steps for further clarification still need to be taken. The Regional Ministers for Mobility and Road Safety are responsible for this. Infrabel does not yet have the figures of 2015. In 2014, 13 accidents occurred in the Netherlands, in Germany 67, and in France 51. The source of the information is the UIC Safety Report 2015, published in October 2015. In 2015, Infrabel launched a new safety policy through the Interface Rail and Road Action Plan for the rail crossings whose abolition is not planned or is budgetaryly difficult to achieve in the coming years. The multi-annual investment plan is still under negotiation. As soon as the new investment plan is established, this will become clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed a very difficult subject, which has been going on for a few years and which is constant: the absolute figures of accidents do not fall. Nevertheless, efforts must be sustained, because I fear that if there were less awareness, we would see an increase. I can only welcome the initiative of psychobremse and other additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u56	Madam President, Minister, last week 500 passengers were stuck in a hot train on the line between Ostend and Eupen, near Wetteren. According to the media, a break in the overhead line caused by the heat was the cause. Through television we saw that there was no electricity and no air conditioning and that it took a very long time for these people to be helped with bags of drinking water. In the meantime, no one was allowed to leave the train. It was a déjà vu. On 27 June 2011, passengers were trapped in a similar incident between the cows in the fields. Many questions were asked about this in the Chamber. The solution was a heat report and 21 recommendations to avoid these conditions. We're five years away, and once again, people are stuck on a train for three hours. What was the exact cause of the fracture in the overhead line? Why were those 500 people barricaded for three hours and not evacuated? How old is the overhead line? When was the last maintenance? What is the average cycle for the maintenance of overhead lines? What is the percentage of delays due to a broken overhead line? Which of the 21 recommendations are already concrete? Do you have an updated table?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u57	Madam President, the exact cause of the break is most likely an air-earth cable that was mounted too close to the main carrier cable of the overhead contact line. Because of the temperature, the air earthing cable shut off and made contact with the main carrier. The following short circuit broke both cables. There was no station near the scene of the incident. The station Gent-Sint-Pieters was located at 10 kilometers. The train was blocked without power. The only solution to get rid of this train was to send a diesel locomotive. A train driver had to be called first to pick up this locomotive in Merelbeke. Only after the necessary safety procedures were applied could the diesel locomotive run up to the train. This is a new six-month-old overhead line that has not been maintained. The maintenance cycle for this line is 15 months. Halfway through this period a review of the line is also carried out. Broken overhead lines accounted for 1.83 % of delays in 2014, 1.08 % of delays in 2015 and 3.29 % of delays in the first six months of 2016. Infrabel takes permanent account of the weather conditions, including high heat, in the management of the rail network. The infrastructure manager has drawn lessons from the past and relies, inter alia, on the recommendations of the 2011 report which have had an impact. With regard to Infrabel, the following recommendations from the report were implemented. Firstly, there are sufficient priority vehicles and drivers available. Secondly, in the event of injury, several persons are sent on site, also for security reasons. When only one person is present, it is already sent to the injury if only to estimate the situation and not to waste time. Thirdly, the standardisation of the type of overhead contact line and of the components and the tools necessary for this was established. With regard to SNCB, I will give you the list of measures that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The 2011 plan states in point 17: "Reviewing the procedures for opening the doors in hot weather with a stationary train dynamometer'. I therefore find it problematic when I hear that people can still be stuck on a train for three hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u59	Mr Minister, we read in Mr Echo that SNCB's debt has risen to more than six billion. The audit of the Court of Auditors from 2012 stated that this was about commercial debts of ABX, consultancy and others. At that time, it was warned not to increase the debt any further. I have already stated in the past that under CEO Descheemaecker a lot of money has gone from public funds to commercial activities, even though this is described differently in his book. However, if even company auditors did not approve the annual accounts at the time, I think it was not just me who said this. Of course, that debt has an impact on the operationality and the future of the company. Mr President, what measures will you take, in consultation with the CEO of SNCB and of Infrabel, to reverse this increase in debt and try to return to a healthy situation? On 26 November 2015, I asked your predecessor a question about the costs of the SLAPs between SNCB and Infrabel. To date, I have not had an answer to this. For me, it is essential to know how much the SLAP costs and how many were closed down. This gives me an idea of the operation of the companies. Does this have to do with insufficient transparency?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u60	Before addressing both points of the question, I would like to point out that the amount of debt of EUR 6.3 billion referred to in the press article taken over is not representative of the actual debt of the railways. This amount is in fact the mere sum of SNCB's economic debt, EUR 3.2 billion, and Infrabel's long-term gross debt, as indicated in its liabilities accounts. Economic debt means the financial debt, supplemented by the net balance of trade claims and other debts and by the unused balance of the State grant. The action announced by my predecessor, to which you referred in your question, remains the key to controlling rail debt. I note that, in addition to improving certain quality elements, the company's punctuality has already been successfully implemented with a view to reducing operating costs. Thus, contrary to your fears, their global economic debt has been reduced. In addition, you asked a question about the cost of the mutual performance provided by SNCB and Infrabel in 2014 and 2015 in the framework of the SLAPs. The figures I have received from them are so different that I cannot possibly give a detailed answer today. Harmonisation is under way. As soon as that exercise is completed, I will inform you of the outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figure of six billion also surprised me, because I have seen other figures, namely a reduction in the operational debts of SNCB and a consolidation of Infrabel's debt. I saw that other colleagues in this committee responded to that. It could therefore be useful to make the exercise that we made years ago, under your Presidency or under the chairmanship of Mrs De Block, and to get an explanation of the debt situation. It is a question of commissions which SNCB, for example, has pre-financed for the public authorities, for the sake of a better balance of financing, for example, the order of the double-deck trains. That is all being thrown into one pile here, which gives a wrong picture. In view of the current rates of interest at a short-term interest rate of 0.03 %, whereas previously at a long-term interest rate of 3 %, there is much to be done about the balance sheet with the restructuring of the debt. Business-wise, it would make sense for Infrabel to receive negative interest for the EUR 80 billion to be placed with the Debt Agency. It would therefore be logical to obtain an explanation from SNCB and Infrabel's CFO. I am also looking at you, Madam President. It is a very technical matter, but I think it is essential to get an overview, because it is one of the company's future opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u62	Are you writing a letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u63	We'll write a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u64	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting on 27 April, I asked you about the social agreement reached in Belgocontrol. You told me that this social agreement must be the subject of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the law of 6 January 2014. You know that this royal decree is essential to restore social peace within the public enterprise and to continue negotiations with the workers. I would just like to know what progress has been made in the social agreement concluded on 12 April. What is the status of the discussions in the Council of Ministers on the above-mentioned royal decree? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u65	Madam President, a social agreement was reached on 12 April in the Belgocontrol Joint Committee. It covers not only the end-of-career provisions – i.e. the pre-pension availability and leave regime for air traffic controllers – but also more dynamic workforce management to ensure better service. Both are intimately linked and guarantee a balanced agreement. The current legal basis for the availability of air traffic controllers and the Royal Decree of 14 September 1987, having regard to the pension reform undertaken in 2011, have consequences for their retirement age. As a result, we are obliged to review the regulatory basis. Indeed, from this year onwards, these agents must justify a career of forty-two years in order to be able to take an early retirement. Starting in 2019, forty-four years of career will be required to obtain an early pension at age 60. Therefore, 89,9 % of air traffic controllers leaving for duty during the period from 1 January 2014 to 1 January 2024 will not have sufficient career years to benefit from it. A first memorandum of social agreement has already been signed with trade union organisations on 27 June 2014 for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016. It concerns agents – then six – who do not have enough career years to retire early at age 60. More specifically, it concerned six controllers, because we are not yet on 31 December. This agreement provides that individual agreements will be concluded with agents to pay them, from the age of sixty, a salary equal to the retirement pension – up to the presumed date of their early pension. The agreement also provided that staff leaving on standby between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2019 who will have too few career years to retire at age 60 would receive waiting treatment during the extended lay-off, but limited to fourteen months. It's technical! The latter part of the agreement lapses under Article 16 of the Law of 6 January 2014 and on the basis of a legal analysis of the PDOS which states that emergency schemes are only taken into account for the granting and calculation of the retirement pension provided that the provision in question has been approved by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. It was therefore necessary to negotiate a new definitive social agreement in order to limit to the maximum these periods of "pre-pension leave after the final date of availability". A social agreement was negotiated between Belgocontrol, CSC Transcom, CGSP and SLFP on 12 April in the Joint Committee by a two-thirds majority. In accordance with the law of 6 January 2014, I presented the content of this social agreement to the Council of Restricted Ministers, which had an exchange of views on the regime reviewed and adopted by the Joint Committee. The Restricted Council of Ministers asked Belgocontrol additional and clarification questions on other issues than retirement. The information has been provided and the Council is expected to decide shortly on this social agreement, which will lead to the revision of the Royal Decree of 14 September 1987.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic416x.u66	Thank you, Minister. In addition to the preamble, the important thing is that this royal decree finally passes into the Council of Ministers. No one wants airports that stop again. Baggagemen have just gone on strike and this has nothing to do with Belgocontrol. When there is a social agreement, when there has been social consultation, when we know how many airports have been affected by the strikes (diseases, absences) of the controllers, it is time for the government to assume its responsibilities. I hope that at this Friday's Council of Ministers you will manage to pass this royal decree so that negotiations can continue. Otherwise, responsibility will no longer lie with Belgocontrol, nor with the workers, nor with the unions, but with the government. That's right!
