ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this question was originally addressed to Mr Peeters, in his capacity as Minister for Employment. The Brussels and Walloon Ministers, Mr Gosuin and Mr Lacroix, are studying the feasibility of a four-day week in a few areas of the civil service, particularly within the Brussels-Clean Regional Agency. The idea is to hire low-skilled job seekers by reducing working time in sectors employing under-qualified people, without affecting the salaries of the agents. In order to finance this measure, there would be a reduction in employers' contributions and also a gain on the reduction in the number of unemployment benefits payable. Although projects differ in some respects, both ministers have embarked on these projects. At the present time, when the reduction of working time is on all fronts, it is, in my view, a socially indispensable and economically interesting measure for our country. Minister, what is your view on reducing working time? Are you about to start pilot projects or a study on this issue? Have you ever discussed this within the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u2	Member of Parliament, within the federal administrative public service, there is already a four-day week plan, pursuant to the law of 19 July 2012 relating to the four-day week and part-time work from the age of 50 or 55 in the public sector. This law is enforced by the Royal Decree of 20 December 2012 laying down various provisions concerning the four-day week and part-time work from the age of 55 in the public sector. This hourly scheme allows contractual and statutory staff members to work one day less while receiving a bonus of 70.14 euros. This amount has been indexed since 1 January 2013, which means that today it is 112.18 euros. This amount is paid by the public employer in addition to the proportional salary. Each member of the contractual and statutory staff may receive this premium for a maximum period of 60 months. In addition, each statutory staff member is entitled to this allowance from the age of 55 and some staff members are entitled to it from the age of 50 until retirement. In conclusion, I can inform you that I do not intend to take any further initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u3	Minister, it is good to remind me that the law allows workers, from a certain age, to work a little less and to get a bonus. However, the question raised here concerns the reduction of working time combined with the hiring of staff. However, this is not the case and it was not the purpose of the 2012 Act. I understand that you do not want and will not take any further action. However, I hope that the examples that will be given in Wallonia and Brussels will rightly encourage you to take initiatives as soon as you find that they are positive for all the parties concerned, including the employer – which will be the federal state in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u4	Mr. Minister, the Court of Auditors recently published a report entitled: "Management of the needs of computer personnel by the Federal State." In this audit, the Court of Auditors checks whether expenditure on IT personnel complies with the rules and whether they meet the criteria of efficiency and economy. To this end, the Court of Auditors shall examine, inter alia, whether the FPS rely on objective criteria to rely on Selor, the non-profit organisation Egov or public procurement for the adoption of services. The Court concludes that the federal state does not yet have a complete and centralised inventory of its IT personnel and that there is no federal ICT plan. This has a negative impact on the quality of the programming of needs and prevents proper monitoring and control. The Court of Auditors also notes that the respective responsibilities of the persons concerned are not defined. The Court of Auditors makes four recommendations on the basis of its different findings. Firstly, guidelines must be drawn up to minimise the cost of the IT personnel to whom the federal state applies. In doing so, the use of a non-profit organisation by the public authorities should remain an exception to be taken back only by way of derogation when the labour market situation so requires. Secondly, the Court of Auditors recommends examining the professions and organic contracts for which a statutory recruitment is necessary in order to ensure the economy and effectiveness of the State's services. It is necessary to specify which job profiles are needed for which professions and what remuneration are included. The FPS P&O assumes that IT professions are bottleneck professions, but has so far not put forward any solution to make the public sector more attractive. Thirdly, there is a need to develop a training offer for IT workers employed by the State so that they can upgrade their competences in the light of technological developments. In this way, costs can be avoided. A final recommendation, finally, the Court of Auditors advocates a shared commitment of IT staff under the responsibility of Selor. The Court recommends developing strategies to better integrate the management of military and civil personnel at the level of the federal state. That is why I would have liked to answer the following questions. Firstly, for what reasons have you not or have not yet responded to the conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Secondly, what are your views on the various conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Thirdly, will you take steps to respond to these comments? Fourthly, is a federal ICT plan being drawn up? Fifthly, are you prepared to increase the role of the monitoring committee in the data processing sector? Finally, are you prepared to invest more in vocational training tailored to the informatics employed by the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u5	Mr Top, the report 'Management of the needs of computer personnel by the Federal State' does indeed produce a number of important conclusions and recommendations, which can make an essential contribution to the better management of the need for IT personnel in public office. The fact that my cabinet did not provide a timely reply to the Court of Auditors in no way undermines the added value of the report. On the contrary, silence can actually be regarded as agreeing to the findings of the report. However, if it can reassure you, Mr Top, I can tell you that I have also given a formal reply to the Court of Auditors. The conclusions and recommendations deal with various aspects of the issue, in particular the central inventory of IT personnel, the lack of a federal ICT plan, the role of Smalls and Egov, working with services according to the selection of IT personnel, the career and training offer for IT officials. It is therefore a very broad and broad report. As you know, I am not responsible for the government's digital agenda. My answers will therefore focus on the recommendations relating to the powers that fall within my field of competence as Minister for Civil Service Affairs. Selor is fully aware that the vacancies for IT profiles are difficult to fill and, on the basis of existing legislation, offers solutions to the recruitment organisations, in particular the derogation procedures for qualifications through the labour market scarcity procedure referred to in Article 16 (2) (1) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937. I can tell you that I have so far responded positively to all requests for exceptions for IT staff. In this context, moreover, I have taken an initiative to extend the existing derogation procedures on diploma to contractual functions, including contractual ones. This text is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. In the future, initiatives will be taken to ensure that, by way of derogation from qualifications for bottlenecks such as IT profiles, there are still a few other structural features. In addition, the decision of the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2015 on optimisation, including in section 6, provides for the creation of one new horizontal entity with a view to optimising the functioning of the support services. IT is one of the four domains of that horizontal entity, in addition to HR, communication and budget. As a result of the first phase of this trajectory, the trajectory group 6 has currently prepared a vision text on the new horizontal entity. That text of vision is currently being politically validated. This will of course be further developed in the next phase. The report of the Court of Auditors will not surprise you, and will provide an important input, especially with regard to the IT panel. A federal ICT plan and a monitoring committee of the IT sector can certainly help to improve the management of the IT staff of the federal public office. The organisation of IT training for IT professionals does not entail any significant cost if each organisation would do so separately with specialised external firms. It is therefore necessary to group the needs of federal officials and centralise the organisation of these training courses. In this way, the vision text I have just spoken of provides for stronger structuralally anchored cooperation between federal administrations. In addition, the Training Institute of the Federal Government, the OFO, is currently reviewing the training offer for IT courses, specifically for the target group of analysts and developers. Among other things, the iCloud and the digitisation of processes and document flows are on the agenda. The OFO also provides for close cooperation with Egov Smals, in the framework of framework contracts for IT training. Finally, I would like to add that the status and employment within the federal government are subject to a number of rules which do not make it clear that we are effectively placed on the market as an attractive and competitive employer. We are also working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u6	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm actually glad you responded late. You therefore agree with the seriousness of the comments and recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. I am also pleased to note that you are already referring to a number of issues on which there is a vision text, in order to respond to a number of issues in the Court of Auditors' recommendations. The most important conclusion is the progress of the journey. There is no time to lose, because losing time is a decline, especially in ICT. I am thinking not only of training and recruitment, but also of coordination. I would therefore urge you to continue this process and to devote the necessary time and effort to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, this issue was introduced on 11 March, so two months ago to the day, but it remains relevant because we still have no echo on the redesign of administrations. Among the avenues put forward in connection with the government's budgetary effort is an acceleration of the famous redesign. So far, it has been planned that this operation will bring in EUR 150 million in 2016 and a total of 750 million until 2018. Obviously, and the press also says, this redesign is not making much progress, but you may contradict us. So far, all we know is that it would aim to achieve economies of scale in administrations (commands, computer systems, merger of administrations), but nothing specific. Minister, what steps have been taken at this time? Of the 150 million savings planned in 2016, what is the amount of savings already made on implemented projects? How much savings are expected on the projects that are being designed? What are the FPS and other federal bodies involved so far? Do you think it will be possible to reach 150 million savings in 2016? Are you considering an acceleration of the redesign process in 2016? If so, what would be the total amount saved this year? What will be the impact of this redesign on public employment? Will there be new cuts in the Public Service? Did you use consulting offices to set up this redesign? If so, which ones? Has a specification been drawn up for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u8	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I have already asked you about how the redesign will work and how the government will achieve its budgetary objectives without further disturbing the functioning of federal policy tools such as its administrations. Just look at the state of our prisons or the FPS Finances to realize that it's not that obvious to realize the savings you imagine without achieving the quality of service. In the context of the budgetary adjustment, you have requested additional budgets for the use of consultants for the implementation of this redesignation. So, instead of saving money, you're spending money. This was confirmed by the Budget Minister in the Finance Committee. I would like to take stock with you of the status of this redesign operation and of this request for additional budgets. How much did you get? What is it going to be used for? Which operators have been chosen to do so, if they have already been chosen? What missions have been entrusted to them? Are you going, yes or no, to involve the public service workers in the reflection on the savings that could be achieved without disturbing the quality of service? Finally, how can such savings be achieved? How can we not make false savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u9	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, following the announcement that the re-designation of the Public Service would bring some 100 million savings to the public treasury, several jurisdictions, including the Federal Planning Office, were particularly sceptical about the realistic nature of this estimate. To see more clearly in this area, we should know more about the exact content of the proposed reforms, a subject on which you are, to say the least, discreet. Considering that effective parliamentary scrutiny of the sincerity of the state's accounts requires proper information from parliamentarians, thank you, Minister, for reporting here on the progress of the proposed redesign of the public service, for listing the work in progress and the amount of savings expected for each of them. Furthermore, I also believe that an amount equivalent to almost 10 per cent of the expected savings would be provided for studies in this area. What about it? Which offices are consulted for this purpose and according to what specifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u10	Mr Van Hees, you say that you introduced your question on 11 March. You could have read in advance the report of our meeting on 1 March, at which we had an important exchange of ideas with Mr Bogaert on the redesign. The redesign is a positive change project aimed at creating greater efficiency and providing better service to CPS citizens, businesses and clients. In the first phase, six concrete routes were defined. In this context, here is their status. For journeys 1 and 6, the co-ordinated purchasing centre and the new horizontal entity, the vision texts were validated on 21 April 2016. For journeys 2 and 3, i.e. improved collection and recovery and management of real estate assets, the vision texts should be validated no later than May 19, 2016. For Route 4, operational excellence in security, the vision text is pending. For Route 5, operational excellence in health, the vision text should be validated by 16 June 2016. All jurisdictions that are part of entity 1 are included in a step-by-step approach to redesignation. The managers of journeys 1 to 6 have, after validation by the steering committee of their vision text, begun to develop their projects. The Steering Committee will report every two months to the Council of Ministers on the progress of individual journeys and projects. The budget performance of each route is determined at the time the projects are being developed. In accordance with the 2016 budget control notification, as regards the redesign, the return of EUR 100 million in 2016 was achieved for journeys 1 to 6, as approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015. I will ensure that the expected performance is achieved without imposing additional linear savings on departments. The Steering Committee shall be responsible, at the latest during the preparation of the 2017 budget, for proposing additional initiatives or journeys if it is found that the journeys referred to above do not meet the planned budget journeys. For external travel support, a EUR 10 million modernisation credit has been committed. This amount was determined on the basis of similar processing projects in countries such as Denmark, Sweden or France. The launch and allocation of advisory missions will be submitted to the Council of Ministers if the legal limits of engagement are exceeded. This means that each group of journeys will have to agree on the actual needs of their journey. The rules on public procurement are of course applicable. At that time, no contracts or missions were awarded. At this stage, it is impossible to determine the impact of the redesign on the public sector workforce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u11	Thank you, Minister. You're talking about concrete projects. You're quoting the six construction sites that are being launched. Would it be possible to have a written basis, a document that gives us more details than what you are telling us here? Indeed, we receive heads of chapters that do not say much. Each of these six projects is summarized in three words. It would be interesting to know what's going on. What I still see is that it starts by costing money instead of bringing it back. On the question of where we are in the process of achieving budgetary savings, I did not understand your answer. Of the EUR 100 million in 2016, you tell us that these savings are already achieved? Is that it? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u12	I said that it was confirmed that we were going to do so, out of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u13	So, we don't have any additional details on how we're going to do it or on what schedule? Will it be done at the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u14	Mr Van Hees, if I may, I have said that it is when the projects start that we will be doing the right thing. I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u15	Don't you have a specific date to give us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u16	I gave it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u17	You've given dates. I ask for more specific documents on progress. It is only natural that there should be no more in the context of an oral question. But, on the other hand, I still have the fear that this is a hijacked attack from the public service. I quote what one prison official said this morning on RTBF: "This right-wing government wants to kill public services." I still have the fear that the redesign will be part of this strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u18	Mr President, fortunately or unfortunately – I don't know what to say – nothing new under the sun. It's still so vague. You confirm this amount of EUR 10 million that has not been committed when it is in May. They are expected to help you achieve 150 million savings in the course of the year and 600 million at the end of the legislature. If the concrete potential effects on some workers and the services they have to provide were not as tragic, it would be laughable. The chair of this commission should hold a special session with the Minister of the Public Service, whose work is most important in his or her jurisdiction, so that he or she can shed much more light on this issue. From the point of view of parliamentary scrutiny, the generalities that are used to answer questions after questions are not at all satisfactory beyond the substance of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u19	Mr. Chairman, I share the concerns of my colleagues, especially since we sent you 7 or 8 months ago a letter asking the minister to give us his definition of redesign in the public service through a presentation. We didn't get it. Of course, everything was not yet in place, but we would have liked to have at least your vision for the future of the public service. It would be good if a commission on the minister's forecasts in this area were to be set up in the near future. I am also concerned about the workforce in the public sector. You say that you are still not able to announce figures, yet the workers fear for their jobs...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u20	A trip is planned by the government at the level of staff credits until the end of the legislature. You'd like me to transcribe this route into numbers, but things aren't that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u21	We are simply waiting for clear explanations in order to be able to provide answers to the citizens waiting and fear of losing their jobs. It seems easy to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u22	I can assure you that at this very moment, the text relating to journeys 1 and 6 echoes a vision shared by the leaders themselves. The success of the redesign depends on this vision and on the people who are involved in this process and who have agreed on the objectives to be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u23	Are you talking about trade union organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u24	No, I'm talking about public officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u25	With the protests coming, it is clear that there is a disagreement with your actions. Who exactly are you referring to?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u26	I'm talking about administrators and public service personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u27	I maintain my request, Mr. Chair, I would like to see a clear and precise presentation on what the public service will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u28	I take note of your questions and we will try to arrange a meeting to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u29	Mr President, Minister, since February 2015, Selor, in charge of State recruitment, and the Federal Administration Training Institute (IFA), in charge of training for the federal administration, have both left the premises they occupied in the building on Bischoffsheim Boulevard in Brussels. However, the press has recently reported that mail to these agencies continues to be delivered to the old address, despite the report of the move to the postal services. This situation obviously raises questions about the continuity of the public service, since important communications concerning other institutions, officials and, above all, administrators may have been lost with negative consequences in terms of follow-up of cases. Minister, has your office been made aware of the situation and has this problem since been resolved? Do you have an assessment of the negative impact of these mail delivery problems? Has a circular been sent to all federal public services to better manage these types of situations in the future, in direct synergy with postal services? Have any other initiatives been taken in this context to resolve this problematic situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Calomne, the IFA is addressed to all federal administrative organizations and their staff but not to citizens or private companies or organizations. He therefore does not manage any files concerning them. Selor, the Federal Government's Selection Office, essentially communicates with candidates electronically. Only invoices or copies of certain documents are still sent by mail. No malfunction can be attributed to IFA or Selor in the delivery of mail. Selor and IFA moved from the Centre Star Building, Bischoffsheim Boulevard 15/1 to 1000 Brussels to the WTC3 building on 9 and 13 February 2015 respectively. In preparation for their relocation, Selor and IFA entered into a contract for the re-shipment of mail with bpost, the execution of which actually took place on the agreed date. Until March 31, 2015, the official date of the end of their occupation of the Star Centre, the IFA and Selor have again raised their mail every day at the Star Centre. No mail could be lost at that time. As of March 31, 2015, IFA and Selor no longer have access to this centre. In 2014, the IFA developed a comprehensive communications plan to inform its clients, partners and suppliers of the consequences of its move. The Selor Communication Service has also developed a communication plan to inform all stakeholders of the move. With respect to the alleged negative impacts, the IFA and Selor did not register any complaints that a federal organization or agent would have brought against the harmful consequences of a mail delivery problem. No incidents were noted. Therefore, no evaluation of such negative incidents had to be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u31	Minister, I thank you for your relatively reassuring answer, since, as you have indicated, no important or individual documents have been identified as problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u32	Minister, for too many months now, the shift to alert levels in certain circumstances and in some places has been a legitimate cause for concern for many citizens, particularly those who live or work in Brussels. This concern has, of course, increased since the 22 March attacks. It is my view that, in this context of tension, there is a real sense of insecurity within the various federal administrations, that officers are in the administrative buildings or that they are carrying out missions outside. What are the security challenges faced by security officers in carrying out their tasks in this high-risk environment, particularly in Brussels? Have you received any testimony in this regard? Have any reports been solicited? What measures are being taken to relieve the workers concerned and ensure their safety? Do you consider that the framework of staff responsible for ensuring the security of administrations and agents is sufficiently provided? Have there been any discussions with workers' representatives in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u33	The situation in recent months and the events of March 22 have undoubtedly had and continue to have an impact on federal public service staff. These impacts range from disruption of the functioning of public transport to psychosocial aspects. As an employer, the federal government must devote maximum attention and care to this situation. It is also important that in such circumstances, CPS continue to provide service to citizens and businesses. In accordance with the legislation on the welfare policy of workers when carrying out their work, the SPF regularly conducts risk analyses which then allow for the establishment of comprehensive prevention plans. These may include crisis action plans. There is also the central unit of the joint prevention service of certain federal public services, Empreva, located within the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. Each FPS has an internal prevention advisor. These bodies and instruments are particularly useful in dealing with the events that have occurred in our country in recent months. The P&O FPS assists FPS in carrying out its legal tasks of well-being and prevention. The P&O FPS has carried out several actions in this area in recent years. In particular, it organized surveys, the results of which were transmitted to the relevant departments, awareness-raising and information sessions, workshops, brochures and poster campaigns. Let's not forget the federal network Previus.be of prevention advisors and trusted people, organized by the P&O FPS. Communication is also very important in such circumstances. At the request of the College of Presidents of Federal Public Services, the P&O FPS is preparing an updated federal crisis communication plan. Finally, the administrations and trade union delegations have the opportunity, during the basic consultation committees, to reflect on the evaluation of the approach carried out and on possible improvements to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u34	I take note of the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u35	Mr President, Minister, research carried out by Kenneth Lasoen, PhD researcher at Ghent University, shows that Selor uses standardised methods which are not at all flexible when it comes to recruiting specific profiles. This method of recruitment threatens certain public services, such as State Security, to miss the opportunity to recruit excellent but atypical profiles. However, these atypical profiles could be a major added value for any organisation. My questions, given Selor's way of recruiting you, Mr. Secretary, are the following. What possibilities does Selor have today to deviate from the standardised procedures? What actions do you think are needed to respond even more to the demand for atypical profiles? How do you intend to meet the future demand of the authorities concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u36	Minister, after the attacks on our capital on 22 March, there has been much talk of malfunctions in the intelligence services, in particular. I know that this will be the subject of debate in the Special Committee, but I would like to ask you about the profiles of our officials on the whole. Indeed, in De Standaard, on March 31, a researcher from the University of Ghent spoke about the recruitment procedures used by the Selor, the organization for recruiting and selecting staff in the public service. Indeed, according to him, the so-called "generic" test, step 1 of any recruitment process, has the effect that the people who are ultimately chosen for the positions have the same reasoning, leading to the same conclusions. He then took the example of the Sûreté de l'Etat, where he felt it necessary for staff members to have different profiles in order to be able to think differently, to be critical, and therefore more creative. I assume that this conclusion can be extended to the broader federal government. What is your position with regard to this generic test that makes much talk about him? Do we not miss out on more original profiles, which do not necessarily pass the generic test, and which yet could do a very good job? After all, these people end up working elsewhere, in the private sector for example, and to suit perfectly. Is an assessment of Selor methods planned on a regular basis? Have other test methods been considered? Why was this type of test chosen rather than another? In view of the numerous complaints heard about this famous generic test, does the Selor intend to modify it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u37	I would first like to answer Mr Metsu's question. I refer to my reply in committee of 1 March 2016. Mr Vermeulen, we had a discussion at the time about problems with IT profiles. I now confirm what I said at the time and also the study you are quoting, namely that we have a rather rigid structure. We're working hard on it internally. I refer to the initiative I have just mentioned, extending the existing derogation procedures on diploma to contractual functions. That Royal Decree is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. We're working on renewal, but it's really not a simple matter. Within the current regulations, we look pragmatically for solutions for specific customers when the opportunity arises. My cabinet will be sitting tomorrow with Selor, the State Security and the ADIV to see to what extent additional recruitment to the information and security services can be accelerated without leaving the legal framework. You must never forget that all our actions are always subject to complaints to the Council of State and others. We'll be farther from home. I am responding to Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's question regarding the evaluation of the tests. I can confirm that a consultation commission for selection exists, following the Royal Decree of 9 January 2007 amending the Royal Decree of 22 December 2000 concerning the selection and career of State agents. This commission monitors the quality of the tests used by the Selor in the various selection procedures. The Commission is primarily responsible for issuing opinions on the scientific basis and the effectiveness of selection methods and instruments, including complaints in this regard. It is also responsible for issuing opinions on the course of action and ethical principles to be followed for all forms of selection. Secondly, the Commission is responsible for making proposals which will standardize or improve the selection procedures used. Finally, the committee is responsible for issuing opinions at my request on the tests to which candidates are submitted. The use of generic tests does not mean that it is always the same profiles of candidates that are selected at the Selor, as suggested in the article. An abstract reasoning test is used in the generic tests. These cognitive aptitude tests do not measure a single way of thinking, but only measure if a minimum level of cognitive ability is present. Through scientific research, we know that these cognitive aptitude tests are one of the best predictors of success in a job, and not for one specific type of work, but for a wide range of functions. The use of generic tests also does not mean that different measurement methods are not used; in the generic phase, the expected competencies for each employee are measured. In the following steps, more specific instruments are used, assessing skills more specific to the function for which they are used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u38	Minister, I am very pleased that you also want to think out of the box and see if there is any strain on these rigid structures. I wish you every success in that. You must check those limits within the current legal framework, of course. I have heard it said that there will be an important discussion tomorrow, including with the security of the State, in order to speed up procedures. I am very curious how that can be done within the current framework. I can only welcome the faster procedures, rather than focusing on those atypical or more difficult to find profiles. Good luck again, and I'll be happy to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u39	Minister, thank you. My question was interesting, since your answer contradicts the press article somewhat. You have to put the clocks back on time and explain what's being done right. This strict legislation is a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u40	Mr.President, Minister, since September 15, 2013, there has been a law on whistleblowers, that is, on the reporting of a suspected breach of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of his staff. The Act came into force on April 4, 2014. Enforcement procedures are not simple, they are even complex. After two years of existence of this law and in view of what is happening to certain whistleblowers in other States and on other subjects, it is important to ensure that this mechanism meets the objectives pursued and applies correctly. The aim is to identify the difficulties encountered and to propose avenues for improvement. Minister, how many files have been introduced? How is the course of dealing with these complaints or reports taking place? On the basis of this law, officials who wish to denounce possible irregularities have the choice to address the Ombudsman or the person of trust. How many of them have approached the mediator or the person of trust? What's the status of the current files? How many cases are closed and with what conclusions? Each federal public service has, in principle, at least one person of trust of integrity by linguistic role. Is that the case in each FPS? Otherwise, what are the obstacles or reasons why this would not be the case? Have any improvements to the scheme already been identified? If so, by whom? What are these improvements of their nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, the information I am going to give you is based on the annual report of the Federal Ombudsman and, more specifically, on the part concerning the Integrity Centre, which is available on the Ombudsman's website. In 2015, the Integrity Centre received 29 files, 24 of which were closed in the information phase. In five cases, a request for prior notice was submitted. These five requests for advance notice resulted in four adverse opinions and a favourable opinion. An investigation was initiated following the favourable opinion. In 2015, the Integrity Centre carried out two investigations following, on the one hand, the above favourable opinion and, on the other hand, a favourable opinion given in 2015 following a request for a prior opinion submitted at the end of 2014. For the sake of clarity, I limit my response to the procedure followed when a staff member wishes to make an alert via the Integrity Centre, which takes place in two phases. In the first phase (prior notice), the staff member shall request in writing an opinion from the Federal Ombudsman's Integrity Centre. The Integrity Centre confirms receipt of the request for an opinion and considers whether the report of the suspected breach of integrity is admissible. The Integrity Centre may invite the staff member to provide more information on certain points during an interview. The staff member shall be informed of the outcome of the examination within eight weeks of the request for advance notice. In the second phase (the alert), if the request for prior notice receives a favourable assessment, the staff member receives a form by which he or she can report to the Federal Ombudsman's Integrity Centre. Staff members must indicate on the form whether they are opting for a public or confidential notification. As soon as the report is received, the Integrity Centre, possibly assisted by experts, initiates an investigation. At the conclusion of the investigation, the Integrity Centre shall report to the public service officer concerned or, if the officer-in-charge is involved in the breach of integrity, the Centre shall report to the Minister. They can take action. As the reporter, the staff member is informed of the outcome of the investigation. To ensure the confidentiality of the investigation, the Integrity Centre cannot provide details of the investigation. As far as the cases in progress are concerned, I refer you to the Federal Ombudsman. In 2015, the Integrity Centre conducted two investigations: the suspected violations of integrity reported in the first investigation into the theft of equipment by a staff member in 2014 and the absence of a response from supervisors to the report of this fact. With respect to the first aspect of reporting, the Integrity Centre was unable to determine whether an integrity breach had occurred. With respect to the second part of the investigation, it was concluded that there had been no finding of a breach of integrity. The Integrity Centre nevertheless drew the attention of the administration concerned to some points of improvement at the organizational level. The suspected violations of integrity reported in the second investigation involved irregularities, lack of impartiality and conflicts of interest in two cases dating from 2012 and 2014. In this case, the Integrity Centre recommended that the administration concerned conduct an audit to examine whether irregularities had been repeated, whether the procedures were sufficiently clear to prevent such situations and whether control mechanisms existed. This audit has already taken place in response to this recommendation. The Act provides that each federal administrative authority shall have one or more persons of trust in integrity (PCI). There are 16 Francophones and 13 Dutch speakers in the federal government. The three main reasons why some organizations do not have an IBD are as follows: the organization does not have a candidate for the IBD function; collaborators who have applied for the IBD function do not succeed in the selection process; staff designated as IBD have waived their duties. On improvements, within the Public Service and Budget Strategic Cells, a working group is working to adapt the regulations. This working group is composed of staff from the Strategic Cells, the Federal Ombudsman, the P&O FPS and the Office of Administrative Ethics and Ethics. On the basis of their expertise, they have made proposals to improve legislation and its application in the workplace. In addition, I, in collaboration with the Minister of Budget, have initiated a communication action for all staff members to promote the existence of the whistle-blower procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u42	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. It highlights the difficulties between workers in the same place to point out things that are wrong and to manage them. From your reply, I conclude that the official who wishes to point out something is addressed to the Federal Ombudsman's Integrity Centre, therefore to the Ombudsman. In the law, I think it was as possible for him to address this trustworthy person in the administration. Then this trusted person follows up. In the numbers you have given, they all seem to be addressed to the Integrity Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u43	I can assume that, because we don't have the data for trusted people. I'm talking about the cases that went through the Ombudsman. It's the only report in my possession. I have no other figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u44	I would be interested to know whether the other procedure is being used. Its realization must be even more complicated since the links are closer. This mechanism was placed in the law at the time and I am not sure that it is the most effective procedure. Is it possible to obtain information on this use of the person of trust in integrity? Is it also used by ringers to report malfunctions? Communication action to inform ringers is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u45	Legislation and the deployment of procedures are very recent. After one year, an evaluation of the operation of the scheme should be carried out. Let us first use existing means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u46	I agree with you. I wanted to have a photograph of the elements, but it's still too early to evaluate them. We also need to investigate the files. I agree with you that it would be good to assess the situation in a year's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u47	Mr President, I have joined both dimensions. Reference has already been made to the tests used by the Selor, but I will intervene in a more general way following the conclusions of the audit carried out by KPMG on the functioning of the Selor, relayed by De Standaard and Le Soir. It was true that officials' representatives had repeatedly reported, observed and alerted that there were malfunctions. But this audit, for what I have read, highlights selection procedures that would be boxing, auctions rigged, fee notes signed by the beneficiaries themselves. The Selor would not pay sufficient attention to the qualitative examination of applications in the selection of candidates or in the hiring interviews. The reports would be too little, ill or almost unmotivated to explain whether the candidate was appropriate or inappropriate. These malfunctions would be identified on all floors, including in the selection of leadership functions. Similarly, the way in which juries are composed is criticized. Indeed, it is the Director General who appreciates, alone, how these juries are formed. More specifically, I asked you several months ago about non-compliance with the rules of good governance when Mr. Van Hemelrijck had appointed his daughter to responsibilities outside her competence or, in any case, her diplomas and to a higher scale than could be expected for the qualifications she had. I was surprised that there was no application of the rule that a leader should not hire someone from his family in a position under his authority. At that time, you quickly requested an investigation into this designation. Mr. Van Hemelrijck preferred to resign at the end of 2015. A little later, you also announced the development of a Code of Ethics in the Public Service to avoid such abuses and to incorporate rules of good governance. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you share with us the elements of this audit? Can the findings of this audit be distributed to members of Parliament? What specific measures have you prepared to improve compliance with public procurement obligations, procedures for the recruitment of public servants in the various functions? Are there any measures that are still being developed? You announced that you would take steps to improve the functioning of the Selor. Are there mechanisms for consultation and sharing experiences in place to develop these improvements? Where are we on the ethical and ethical code? In the more specific case of the appointment of Mr. Van Hemelrijck in a position of service manager, there was also non-compliance with the qualification requirements and the salary scale. Were corrective measures taken and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u48	Mr Minister, the press recently referred to an audit report whose conclusions would identify several dysfunctions within the Selor. Here are some of them: lame selection procedures, rigged auctions or fee notes signed by the beneficiary agents themselves. The report would also be critical of how certain government officials were selected. I quote the information published in the press: "The emphasis is more on quantity than on quality (...) Rather than looking for the rare pearl in a correct and qualitative way, the Selor mainly deals with the administrative processing of as many selection files as possible". The opacity of selection procedures is also highlighted, as is the bias of some boards. The report would also indicate that within the Selor itself, there would be irregularities in the promotion and appointment of staff. Mr Minister, if this information is proven, it must be noted that it is quite worrying. Like any public service, the Selor must of course be exemplary in its way of functioning. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm the information provided to you and, if necessary, provide us with an update of the situation? What are the main problems in the Selor? What measures have you already adopted, in direct synergy with your services, to provide concrete and lasting answers to the difficulties? Have new management and monitoring procedures already been adopted? If so, could you communicate them to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Mr Calomne, I must first point out that I never speak of individual files. I hope you understand that. I would like to make it clear that it was I who had asked the Selor to order the audit mentioned, because it seemed necessary to me. I can't tell you that his conclusions really shocked me. The company expects a federal public service responsible for recruitment to be impartial, credible, neutral and objective. Never, in any way, will I derogate from these rules. In full transparency, I would like to make the results available to you. To do so, I will forward the documents to the secretariat of the committee for consultation. I hope you will understand that the number of names included in the audit has led our legal advisors to decide to anonymize some of them. With regard to the questions on concrete measures, I should like to inform you that the following actions have already been taken to strengthen risk management, ensure the regularity of purchases and improve the internal control process for the validation of payments and benefits. With regard to the central and independent control of the correct and consistent application of the Public Procurement Act, the existing P&O P&O PPS PPS P&O PPS PPS P&O PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PPS PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P The delegation order of the managing director and other staff of Selor concerning the purchase of goods and services will be adapted for the purpose of optimisation and in order to increase transparency. In addition, all financial processes will be identified. In the case of "jurisdictional" allowances, only benefits for which supporting documents will be submitted will be paid at legal rates, in accordance with the regulations. In addition, different people process the validation and payment of these allowances. With regard to the payment of certain benefits such as overtime, only benefits for which there is a legal basis will be paid. It is also planned to strengthen the management of basic processes by drafting clear descriptions of the tasks and roles of the selection teams. The measures taken and the actions in preparation are the result of consultations between the P&O FPS ad interim leaders and my strategic unit. I have instructed my firm to follow these actions closely. I want to stress that this list of actions is not exhaustive. Moreover, it is clear that the Selor must refocus as quickly as possible on its key tasks. The reorganization of the supply of its services and the development of ALS is inevitable. The creation of a new horizontal entity as part of an optimization of federal services is an opportunity to address the corporate culture problem within Selor. Of course, the provisions contained in the Government Agreement, namely reform of recruitment procedures, will have to be taken into account in order to improve the consistency between the examinations and the specific competencies required for each function, reduce the length of selection procedures without loss of quality and further objectiveize the composition of the selection boards for the selection of representatives. In addition, I have asked my colleague the Minister of Budget to instruct a Finance Inspector to analyze the circumstances, context and responsibilities associated with the findings of the audit report. As you know, I attach great importance to integrity. I have already explained this at length with the questions about whistleblowers. With regard to the specific code for mandate holders, I can inform you that the Federal Ethics Commission of the Federal Parliament will make the initiatives mandatory. They will contain rules of a ethical nature, ethical rules or rules relating to conflicts of interest, as well as directives which the committee would consider useful in this respect. These codes will need to be approved in legislation. With respect to the ethical and ethical code issue, I can inform you that my Budget colleague has recently begun to inventory all existing codes within the federal government, because there are many. The aim is, in the coming months, to analyse these codes together and, if necessary, to take the necessary legislative measures. I would add that I personally find the codes important, but I am not sure that they should be made into laws. When you turn codes into rules, they're no longer codes, but they're rules. But this comment has not been prepared, I apologize to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u50	Minister, thank you for making the audit report available. I fully understand the need to preserve anonymity for these kinds of tools. It is also necessary for successive audits to function. Otherwise, there is no confidence on the part of staff members who must be involved in an audit. I see that measures are under way. That seems really indispensable. I was just as shocked as you were. At the same time, it's a press article. Sometimes it's exaggerated. That's why I wanted more information from you. Should a code become a law? It is true that this is the question every time. At the same time, it is clear that while some basic criteria are not enshrined in the law, the codes may not be sufficiently ambitious. There are good codes, such as the code of good corporate governance. One part is in the law and one part is a code developed with binding force between the actors. This is essential in the public service. For the question to which you did not reply because it concerned a particular case, it is a well-known case, mentioned in the newspapers and really appealing. For me, this rule must not be included in a code, but in the law: someone in a position of responsibility does not appoint family members among his officials. It's found in many codes. This is part of fundamental rules. Nor, of course, is a family member favoured by facilitating access to him or her, or by giving him or her remuneration in excess of what someone else would have had. There is a real political responsibility to bear in this kind of situation. You did not answer the question of whether corrective action had been taken. I hope that has been the case. If we do not correct the mistakes that have been made, there is no point in establishing rules for a neutral, objective and integrity public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u51	I wanted to thank you, Minister, for your answer and more specifically for the reminder of the strong values that you intend to defend in this context: exemplaryness, integrity, neutrality, objectivity. It's important to call them back. I would also like to thank you for your willingness to be transparent in this report, which we will be aware of. Thank you for making it available to parliamentarians. It is important that we have a look at this audit and evaluation. Finally, I take note of the various measures that you will put in place on this subject. We will remain attentive to the implementation of these measures and to the evolution of the institution, as it is also a matter of its credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u52	Minister, I don't think this is the first time I've asked you such a question. On 26 April, the public services were on strike. Some of the reasons for concern among federal public servants included the files of the diploma bonus, the contract pension, the preferential tantèmes and sick leave. In these various dossiers, the trade union organisations also raised the failure of the social dialogue in Committee B. So my question will be simple, so far, where are we in these different areas and how do you intend to resume the social dialogue with the workers' representatives? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the matters that you are dealing with, i.e. the diploma bonus, the contract workers' pension, the first preferential pension and the pension for physical incapacity, are dealt with in Committee A, and are primarily within the competence of the Minister of Pensions. The social consultation within this committee is chaired by the Prime Minister, and the next negotiation within Committee A will take place on 20 May 2016. However, the changes are always a source of concern and I am well aware of them. We must move forward on sensitive and complex issues, of course with the trade union organisations. In order to be the most transparent and accurate in future regulatory measures, I have met with the various trade union organizations bilaterally to hear their concerns. I would like to inform you that there have been regular negotiations in Committee B since the beginning of the legislature. In 2016 alone, I organized seven B committees, an average of more than one B committee per month. In addition, at my request, my firm has had several informal meetings with trade union organizations as part of our projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u54	Are all trade union organisations invited to these informal meetings? Or are you targeting a particular union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u55	Most unions are invited. I know you've heard of an incident. If there are informal meetings, it is mainly for the partners who want to come to these meetings, and share.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u56	Of course, the aim is to be constructive and to debate, especially on important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u57	Constructive, that's a very important word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u58	If the other trade union organisations are not invited, they are not aware, they cannot come. You're talking about informal meetings...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u59	There have been seven B committees, which is more than ever before. There are informal meetings for partners who want to share an informal meeting and contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u60	It's good to organize B committees, but you also have to listen and not just impose your vision of things. You have to listen and be open to dialogue. You're telling me that another committee is scheduled for May 20, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u61	The specific dossiers you mentioned are files discussed in Committee A chaired by the Prime Minister because this also involves the Regions and Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic414x.u62	Thank you.
