ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u1	Madam President, Minister, you rightly announced that you, together with the government, would like to take measures, following a number of new press leaks and breaches of professional secrecy, in order to be able to act more effectively against such violations. You announced, among other things, stricter penalties and you also announced that in terrorist files, source secrecy would no longer be absolute. My questions are as follows, Minister. Can you confirm this report, both as regards the more severe punishment and as regards the restriction of source secrecy in certain files? You have already answered this question in plenary. When can the initiative be expected? Can you also give some idea of the number of investigations, investigations into such leaks and breaches of professional secrecy, which are currently under way? In how many cases and in how many cases after a complaint a procedure was initiated and what action is being taken on such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u2	Madam President, Minister, a similar question about the facts of a few weeks ago, where apparently the directors of the special tax inspection in Ghent and an Antwerp substitute would have been bugged. My questions are therefore about the matter itself, to what extent this is indeed true. What studies have been carried out and what has been done in accordance with the applicable legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u3	It is true that I wish to impose a stricter penalty for the violation of professional secrecy and for the violation of investigative secrecy. Recent leaks from criminal investigations, including into terrorist offences, have demonstrated the need for them. I hope to be able to present these legislative texts to Parliament in the very near future. My policy cell has already prepared drafts. They have already been submitted to the Interkabinets Working Group. I would also like the prosecution to conduct a genuine investigation and prosecution policy into leaks from the criminal investigation. For this reason, I will propose to include the violation of investigative secrecy in the list of Article 90b of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the offences for which a tap measure may be ordered. The government still needs to define the correct size of that measure. As far as journalistic source secret is concerned, I can only say that I have no intention of touching it. There are no projects on this in my policy cell either. The amendment of the law of 7 April 2005 on the protection of journalistic sources is not relevant. Unfortunately, figures of the number of ongoing investigations or judicial investigations into leaks could not be made available to me. As regards the question of the use of special research methods, telephone taps and observations in the context of an investigation into press leaks on Mr Karel Anthonissen, the regional director of the BBI, and Mr Van Calster, deputy attorney of the King, I can inform you that this is formally denied and contradicted. Shortly after the publication of the relevant press release on the apache.be website, the public prosecutor-general of Antwerp distributed a press release in which these allegations were formally rejected. The answer to the question of whether there is an investigation of the two persons mentioned is also negative. In addition, the College of Attorneys General informed me that Mr Van Calster submitted a complaint to the Attorney General at the Court of Cassation on 17 October 2015. It was transferred to the Attorney General at the Antwerp appeal court. On receipt of that notification, the Attorney General immediately ordered further investigation from the competent services. These are investigations which are particularly intrusive in relation to private life. However, the investigation showed that no tap or other special investigation measure was carried out or ordered at the expense of Mr Van Calster. The person concerned was informed accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u4	Minister, I am a little surprised that you cannot give figures on the number of pending cases of breach of professional secrecy. That could have three reasons. Either the time frame was too short, or the figures are not available or there are no ongoing investigations. If that is the case, I regret it. We support your intention to step up action against violations of professional secrecy and research secrecy. Indeed, we are all convinced that this may not only endanger researchers in certain cases, but may also be detrimental to the detection of serious crimes and even seriously harm people's privacy. However, it makes little sense to tighten up the penalties if there are no files on the table today. I think that's counter-dictorical. Today, too, there is the possibility of detecting such crimes. So I would like to ask a sub-question, Minister. Are there currently no ongoing investigations or do you not have any figures? Mr. Secretary, you will remain silent. I expect an answer to my question one day. So I'm gonna have to ask them again. There is no point in strengthening the weapons if we do not use the weapons that are already there today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u5	I have the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u6	The classic answer is, of course, that there was not enough time to answer the oral question. If you would like precise figures, I will reply quickly to a written question on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u7	That's reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u8	Minister, I agree with that last remark. The facts are already incriminating today. If few cases can really be sorted out or brought to court, then a penalty increase in itself does not make much sense. You also indicate that you want to look for other methods of investigation, which I understand. However, we must be careful about this. As you have just said to a part of the question, it is a very intrusive method. We must therefore ask ourselves what kind of crimes we are going to extend the BOM Act for. So it's a delicate matter. It's a reflection we have to make. I am not saying that we should do nothing to address the problem. However, I do believe that we should be careful. To the specific question about the two parties, you answer very clearly that there is no investigation into these two persons. No phones would have been bugged, which reassures me. If it's absolutely not true, how does a message like that get in the press? There's been a lot of saying where there's smoke, there's fire. Maybe people feel something. However, I will continue with the answer you have given on the basis of the information you have received. I do hope that's not true. If that is the case, then it is far too far-reaching and delicate to begin with, if necessary. Let us hope for your sake that there will be no new information and that the story will not be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u9	Minister, my question is a little older. I assume that in the meantime all the strikes have ended, unless I am mistaken, and you will correct that. As a result of the strikes, considerable damage was caused in your cabinet. To an earlier question from Mr De Wit, you could only give a partial answer, because the damage was not fully budgeted at that time. I suppose that has happened in the meantime, hence my questions. In the meantime, could the damage to your cabinet be budgeted? How much is it? Will you or the government set up a bourgeois party to recover the damage done? Can and will disciplinary proceedings be initiated in so far as the persons concerned are employed by the judiciary? Finally, can you confirm that the strike has ended effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u10	Mrs. Van Cauter, the reception of the FPS Justice Department was cleaned by a specialist firm the same day. The cost was 490 euros. The cost of cleaning the façade and the outdoor glazing, which was mainly spattered eggs, amounted to EUR 1 000. The glazing of the interior doors that give access to the reception of the FOD has just been replaced and we did not receive the invoices yet. The entrance door was quickly restored with a wooden panel placed by the owner of the building. The glazing of the entrance door was replaced the day after the facts, but we do not yet have the invoice. The outer glazing damaged by projectiles could be restored in the days following the facts. It should also be noted that the Brussels court opened a criminal investigation which, according to our information, is under investigation. The Belgian State is disadvantaged and will follow the course. In the event of legal proceedings before the court, the Belgian State will set itself a bourgeois party. When criminal proceedings are closed, disciplinary proceedings will be initiated in accordance with the usual rules. The outcome of these procedures will depend on the concrete elements of the files and will be determined by the Management Committee of the FPS Justice. There's no setting where they're gonna stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u11	Minister, I believe that the government is right to set itself up as a bourgeois party in order to recover the damage. I believe that it is a general principle that damage should also be compensated. With regard to any disciplinary action to be taken, you say that you will await the end of the investigation. I am free to refer you to your own debrief which allows any disciplinary authority to request information on judicial investigations or investigations in order to allow you to take disciplinary action if appropriate. You know better than anyone, Minister, that according to settled case law and therefore the usual rules, it is not allowed to wait for judicial proceedings before disciplinary action is taken, because then you will be hopelessly late. If it is really your conviction to intervene in disciplinary action, you should do so as soon as possible. I would thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u12	Mr Minister, the recent facts reminded me of an old file. In 2011 an article was published in De Morgen with the striking title "School never informed about pedo teacher." We then learned in the Committee on Sexual Abuse that very little information from the Justice Department is given to the employer. So someone who was arrested because of child pornography on the computer could still continue to work as a teacher and give training to youth players in their spare time. That the conviction was followed then, both the school and the sports club could only hear through the media. Only then could the man be deactivated or fired. For the King's Attorney of Bruges, it was clear at that time that this can only be avoided by legislation which determines whether and how employers should be informed of an ongoing investigation against their employee. I questioned your predecessor Stefaan De Clerck in 2011 who referred to a decision taken by the Privacy Commission in 2001 stating that a legislative initiative is necessary and that this problem cannot be solved by a ministerial directive. Moreover, the presumption of innocence must be taken into account. That is why the successive ministers since 2001 felt that a legislative initiative was not necessary. Minister De Clerck thought that was necessary. We have also studied sexual abuse in committee, Mr Van Hecke can confirm this, about the information to third parties and the findings that have been made. Recommendations were also included. Recommendation 20 states that a judicial mechanism should be sought to allow the King's Attorney to take the necessary preventive measures after the intervention of an investigating judge without the need to initiate a judicial investigation.Today there is still no such mechanism, nor is there a legislative initiative. This problem is now on the rise again because the school director of a school from Ronse was not aware of the fact that one of their teachers is being investigated for child pornography. The investigation has been going on for 1.5 years, which is a long time. The school therefore calls for measures to avoid such matters in the future. Mr President, what initiatives do you intend to take to respond to this recommendation from the Committee on Sexual Abuse and the question of the free education network? Do you wish to carry out this initiative only for the purposes of morale or for other crimes as well? To what extent are the Communities involved in this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u13	Mrs De Wit, the rules on the communication of information to administrative or disciplinary authorities are clearly set out in the Legal Code. Article 1380, second paragraph, of the Civil Code provides that the Public Prosecutor's Office shall decide on the notification or delivery of a copy of documents of inquiry and of judicial proceedings in disciplinary proceedings or for administrative purposes. At the time of the Committee on Sexual Abuse, the need for information to third parties, employers, representative bodies or public authorities exercising disciplinary powers was repeatedly raised. Following the recommendations of this committee, on 29 April 2014, the circular COL 8/2014 was issued, which provides concrete guidelines for the communication of information on the investigation in case of ongoing preliminary investigations or prosecutions. It warns against an automatic notification obligation. Four cumulative considerations are put forward which should be taken into account by the public prosecutor in its assessment of the disclosure, in particular the seriousness of the facts, the relationship between the crime and the profession exercised by the person, the importance of the investigation and the stage at which the administration of justice is located. For example, when the case is before the investigating judge, it is appropriate to seek his opinion before making a communication, so that it is certain that the current investigation is not harmed. In view of the importance of the issue of combating sexual abuse of children and child pornography, to which, as you know, the government attaches particular importance and which is one of the policy priorities, I have considered it appropriate to address the issue with urgency at the next meeting of the College of Attorney General with the Länder. The College of Attorneys will discuss this with the Communities on when it is relevant that criminal information is passed on to schools, even before there is a conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u14	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I think it is important that we make this exercise as soon as possible. We are dealing here again with a poignant case. There are different ways of working. We have also seen this abuse in committee. In the Netherlands they work with a stair system, step by step, with shared professional secrecy. It is not obvious, because the presumption of innocence of course always plays a part. Although it is not an obvious exercise, something must be possible. I would like to make a comment on this, but it is not intended for the report. Last week I noticed that in some cases, when an investigation is started, names, increases and photocopiers are easily thrown into the press. I do not want to comment on it, if it is so, it must be followed up. It's very simple. However, there is an imbalance. A teacher who is day after day with students and trains young people is not known by anyone, but someone who happens to be familiar does get his picture in the newspaper. There is a clear imbalance here. The investigation needs to tell us what that is. But that did bother me. The students may be exposed to a greater danger. The rules are what they are. Everyone must therefore apply them correctly and not work with two sizes and two weights. However, this is not for the report. However, it bothered me very much that of some no name or initials are published and of other names, names and photos. That is not correct. However, if teachers are dealing with children and are suspected of such facts, I should like to stress the principle of caution. We must come up with a system that does not violate the presumption of innocence. I think that should be perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u15	Mr President, Minister, when a suspect does not speak or understand the languages of a police force, he is theoretically entitled to an interpreter. I have heard that, in the event of an invitation to an interrogation, certain corps ask the defendant, I quote, to bring along a person who speaks Dutch if he/she does not understand the language. I have a document like this in case you're interested. Since this interpreter is taken by the suspect, or the potential suspect or witness, this is very bizarre. Maybe this person or interpreter can't be completely impartial. Questions can certainly also be asked about the quality of the translation, because it is not guaranteed in this case. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, what is your position on this practice? Secondly, in what circumstances does this practice occur to your knowledge? Thirdly, is this method legal? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u16	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, in order to ensure impartiality, a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators will be established from December 2016 and a notification of possible conflicts of interest to the legal experts in general. Interpreters are currently chosen on the basis of informal lists and must not meet objective criteria relating to their competence or the quality of their performance. This situation will soon change with the entry into force of the Law of 10 April 2014 amending several provisions to establish a national register of legal experts and to establish the national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators. Under that law, only the interpreters, translators and translators who are included in the national registers for sworn translators, interpreters and translators will be entitled to enter the title of sworn interpreter, translator or translator and to perform the work entrusted to them by law, except in the exceptional circumstances mentioned above. Entry into that register shall be subject to a number of conditions, including consent to a deontological code to be determined by the King, containing at least the principles of independence and impartiality. In addition, an amendment is also proposed to the Legal Code which imposes a reporting obligation on legal experts in general for all facts that could give rise to the perception that they could not be independent or impartial. The federal judicial police and the local police permanent committee have been questioned about the existence of the practice you maintain. Both services report that the practice you refer to is not being applied. In addition, there is no official directive which prescribes or imposes this procedure. The official list of interpreters of the public prosecutor's office is used for the judicial interviews. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the relevant legal provisions. Both Articles 31 and 32 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases and Article 47a (1) fifth of the Code of Criminal Procedure clearly state that the sworn interpreters must be appointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u17	I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the law and implementing it. He's very welcome. You have asked questions about practice and people say that they do not know it. I'll get you a copy of the call that says that literally. Then you can transfer them to the competent services and they can remind the police of the relevant legal provisions. Those practices should not be applied. That way they are aware of that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u18	Mr President, Minister, last week you were questioned about the 27 proposals for reform of the CSO (the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation) to better manage the criminal money that sleeps on the accounts. There is not only money that sleeps on the accounts, there is, of course, also seized property. Among the various proposals made by the OCSC, the proposal concerning houses, offices and other real property belonging to suspects who were seized during a criminal investigation, drew my particular attention. Magistrates suggest making these properties available to CPAS or registered social services, which is of great interest to me, since I myself preside over a CPAS. According to them, the use of these goods by CPAS and other social services would be a positive signal to the public and would have the effect of demonstrating that the fight against crime can also help society. This also seems to be a new trend in Europe, since in Italy and Spain this type of measure already exists. We have also already taken the step in Belgium, not only for bank accounts or real estate, but also with movable property, since seized cars have been made available to the police. You imagine that allowing CPAS and social services to use these seized properties would have the effect of making a strong gesture in favour of society. On 22 June, in response to your questions, you stated that you felt it necessary to examine the various aspects of the proposed measures before considering the follow-up to this project, in consultation with the departments concerned. Minister, could you please clarify a future agenda for the review of these 27 reforms? When can we receive your findings on the availability of seized real property to CPAS following the review of these 27 proposed reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u19	Mr President, Mr Massin, the Director of the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation did indeed send me on 14 June 2016 a letter containing a proposal to recast the Act of 26 March 2003 establishing a Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation and laying down provisions on the constant value management of seized property and the enforcement of certain property sanctions. This proposal follows several months of work carried out on the initiative of the Central Body, in conjunction with my Strategic Cell and the FPS Justice Legislation DG. This work was not yet finalized. I am surprised that the press was informed at the same time of the key elements of this project. I repeat, these are not final reforms. This does not seem to me to be a good method of work. The most appropriate is the examination of the various aspects of the measures proposed before considering the follow-up to be given to this project in consultation with the departments concerned. For the time being, this proposal is only an exercise that contains the ideas of the OSCS. I haven't approved it yet. The 27 proposals referred to in the press are included in this proposal for legislative reform. These are important changes under the current law. Some of them are of a technical nature, while others must be the subject of political choice. I do not think it appropriate at this stage to indicate which proposals I might or might not adhere to. Some measures may have significant consequences and therefore require further reflection. I therefore expect an opinion from the College of Prosecutors General. The list of proposals has already been discussed a few weeks ago within the ECOFIN network of expertise of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the fight against corruption. I do not rule out the need for further opinions. In addition, consultations with the Internal FPS are still needed, as the impact of the reform on the working methods of the police, both local and federal, could be significant. So we will still have the opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can imagine that an examination should take place. Of course, if the proposals are in the press, you will tell me again that there is a problem of flight, but we are not facing a judicial investigation. Beyond the joke, the proposals seem interesting and rewarding to me. Of course, they also have symbolic value for the government, as well as practical and pragmatic solutions for CPAS. That said, even if we do not necessarily have to hurry, it is a matter of not wasting too much time. Indeed, these initiatives can raise hopes. It would therefore be a shame to disappoint these expectations by failing to meet them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u21	Minister, you have expressed your intention to stop using Prince's prison as a detention center in the near future. This should significantly reduce the number of prisoners and the level of overpopulation. You had a meeting with the mayor of Vorst on Monday, June 20th. That's not the first time, because he threatened to close the Prince's prison earlier, because of the overcrowding and poor living conditions. I have the following questions. How many prisoners would Prince's prison fall back on if it were no longer a detention center? How high, taking into account the new target, would the overpopulation in Vorst still be? What specific timing do you mean by short-term debt securities? (...) What consequences will this have for the staffing of the Prince's prison? Will staff be transferred to other prisons? If so, how much and where? Was this a very important issue, Mr President-in-Office of the Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u22	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, following your interview on June 20, with the mayor of Forest, Marc-Jean Ghyssels, it was announced that the C wing of the prison will be closed gradually, in four monthly stages of fifty inmates, with as the deadline on December 31, 2016. This wing, which mostly houses prisoners in semi-detention, seems to be currently the most problematic of the prison, whether in terms of security or "comfort". It is also foreseen that, in the long term, Forest Prison would no longer be a remand prison for preventive detention, but rather a prison for punishment. The prison population would therefore increase from 344 to 180 prisoners, according to what was announced following your interview with the mayor of Forest. In addition to internal rotations, you are also considering transfers of inmates to achieve the stated goal. According to what criteria and to which institutions do you plan them? Is this return of the Forest prison to its original role as a house of punishment only a short-term way to save the accused presumed innocent from the deplorable conditions of detention of a prison destined to disappear or, on the contrary, does it announce a new destiny, in the long term, for the Forest prison which will therefore continue to exist? In the latter case, is it not contrary to the masterplan which provides for the definitive closure of the Forest prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u23	Minister, I am not going to repeat the preamble that was brilliantly produced by my two colleagues. I will ask you directly the questions that I think are useful as well. It would appear that a basic consultation committee on the immediate future of the Forest establishment was held last Friday. What were the conclusions? What decisions have been taken regarding the closure of wing C of Forest Prison? On what basis was this decision taken and what were the reasons for this decision? Has the situation in Forest Prison deteriorated significantly? How should one imagine the progress of the progressive closing of wing C? What deadlines have been set? What will happen to inmates in wing C of Forest Prison? Will they be transferred to other institutions? How will these transfers be organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u24	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, Mr Vanden Burre, last week I had an interview with the Mayor of Forest. During this consultation, it was agreed that the C wing of Forest Prison would be closed in phases. In fact, there are no detainees in detention. This decision, motivated by the general state of the building, is not a new idea except for our governments, in the past, would not have decided to close the building and make a new one in Haren. So this has nothing to do with the masterplan. The implementation of this project, which includes the closure of Brussels prisons as soon as Haren prison is put into service, continues in its entirety. In the meantime, however, a number of additional problems have arisen, such as problems of water infiltration and stability. Last year, the D wing had already been closed for the same reason, and since the C wing is very comparable to it in terms of infrastructure, it is not illogical that it presents similar problems. It is therefore preferable to close the C wing in phases. The reduction of the number of prisoners in wing C will initially take place through a lockdown, which will take place at the beginning of July. From then on, the prison of Saint Gillis will take over the office of arrest for Brussels and the prison of Princess will gradually serve the criminal house function for those convicted of Brussels. From Saint Gillis, of course, a number of prisoners will first be transferred to other prisons in the country, with the aim of controlling the number of prisoners in Saint Gillis. The remaining prisoners will then be removed from this wing by means of transfers and the natural outflow of prisoners. The final closure is scheduled for the end of October this year. The transfer of prisoners to other institutions will be carried out in accordance with the usual classification rules established by the prison administration, which take into account, but not exclusively, the length of the sentence and the prospects for the reintegration of prisoners. The option of making a prison in Forest prison was supported by the mayor of Forest. In concrete terms, this means that wings A and B will continue to be used as well as the buildings in which the psychiatric annex is currently located. As far as this annex is concerned, the internees who stay there will be transferred to the prison of Saint-Gilles. In the Forest annex, convicts will then be detained, but also in a more limited number. As a result, the capacity of the Forest Institution will be reduced to 180 places and, of course, it will no longer be overcrowded - almost 700 inmates have been there in the past. Of course, this will have an impact on a number of staff. There will be transfers, which, by the way, doesn't have to be negative. This can also accommodate some requests for mutation. When there is more clarity about the whole, a trade union consultation will of course be organised. Finally, it is also referred to a basic consultation committee (CBC). The director of the Forest prison explained to the concert committee the history of the visits, the oral conclusions of the architect's visit, the two visits of the firefighters and the possible scenarios. It was therefore an informative meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I am going to read your answer very carefully in the report. The transfer of personnel does not seem to me to be a problem. I understand that, among other things, the prisoners are being transferred to other prisons in the country, because of course they have to go somewhere. However, we must think carefully about it and ensure that the overpopulation does not increase further in those places. Perhaps we should look at the whole story of prison buildings together with the Minister responsible for the Government of the Buildings, but I am convinced that this will happen, to see what can or cannot be done and in what way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will analyse in detail. On the subject of inmate transfers, we will come back to the issue. I note that there is no connection with the masterplan and closure of the Brussels prisons after the construction of the Haren prison. For Forest in particular – we know all the catastrophic conditions of detention in this prison – it would be good to have a total closure plan. It's urgent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u27	Minister, it has been a number of years since we voted here in Parliament a law which exempts EUR 5 000 in succession to allow the partner of someone who died to make some payments because people would not suddenly be without financial resources after their partner's death. In addition, we thought that the release of goods would be done in a smooth way, of course, also through the banks. Recently, last week I thought, I read an article in the newspaper in which it was apparently stated that the financial institutions often delay the release of the deceased's goods in bank accounts for too long. There is an article 1240a that says that the deceased's assets can be released on the basis of a certificate or an instrument of succession. Which would have to be done in a pretty smooth way. I do know that there are more people or children staying abroad and that it is not always so obvious to fill out the papers. But apparently different situations were identified there depending on the banks it was about and so on. The banks would not all give release to all heirs on a clear instruction and they would also request the agreement of all heirs with the division and not just an act of succession which is considered to be part of the doctrine of law contra legem. Hence my questions, Minister. Is that a problem? Is he familiar with you? I can only continue with newspaper articles. I do not know whether it really happened from the banks as a result of an investigation. Is the demand of the banking institutions for the agreement of all heirs for the release of those funds a legal question? What possibilities do banks have to postpone this release and, on the other hand, on the side of the next of kin, what means do the longest-lived and other heirs have to allow those blocked goods to be released more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u28	Mrs Becq, I am aware of this problem. On the basis of the legislation, it can be considered that, provided that the submission of an act of succession, the banking institutions can pay freeingly to the heirs if they respect the inheritance included in that act. I understand a certain reluctance and caution from the sector. Imagine that, on the one hand, an heir is entitled to half of a inheritance, but on the other hand, another heir, because of the result of an e.g. (...) or reduction, is only entitled to a set-off in the liquidation. The latter does not like to see the funds paid to the first. It would then be a payment of an advance from the estate that would prove not to be due afterwards, with all the risks of recovery. Financial institutions wish to avoid the risk of being held liable for at least double payment. Hence their demand for a final liquidation or agreement to release all heirs. To this problem, the tax provisions add that, if an heir resides abroad, the funds must remain blocked until the payment of inheritance duties has taken place, and the provision which states that an instrument of succession may be released by the author only ten working days after notification to the tax authority. Therefore, the legislation provided this relief for the surviving heir who should be able to take up a living wage for his daily needs. Such a provision also exists for the necessary urgent costs such as funeral expenses. There is also a pragmatic solution if the heirs have appointed a notary to settle their estate. The bank can then transfer the funds to the notary who has a view of the paint smoothing and the possibility to pay advances. I am examining whether there can be improvements in the legislation which will enable the funds to be made available earlier and, of course, I am open to suggestions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u29	I thank the Minister for his answer. I understand that you recommend that, if I may put it this way, the funds should be handled with caution after the death in order to safeguard the banks. That is why I am asking about the reality of the problem. Otherwise we have to ask ourselves, for example, whether we should consider whether, in relation to the real situations, we should increase the amount, but there are perhaps other possibilities, of that particular provision, of Article 1250ter, where we provide EUR 5000, if there are problems there. But then I think it is a different issue than that in which banks are indeed asking for guarantees that there should be no settlement or double payment afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 12705 and 12755 by Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Smeyers have been postponed. Question No 12725 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u31	Minister, the situation of legal interpreters and translators has been problematic for some time now. You would be working on a reform right now. However, it seems difficult to reach an agreement. Among other things, the setting of tariffs would lead to a lot of discussion with the sector. There will also be a European directive which will impose certain minimum rates. The sector has been misappreciated for a long time. However, interpreters play an extremely important role in the course of justice. If an interpreter cannot be found before a court hearing, that is a violation of the right to a fair trial. The need for interpretation also increases every year due to internationalisation, the threat of terror and so on. It is therefore clear that sufficient resources are needed to meet this need. I have a number of very specific questions about this. Where do you stand with the new KB on court fees? What advice has already been given? What are the comments from these opinions? What steps still need to be taken? When do you think this will be submitted to the Council of Ministers? My next question is in line with the previous one. When a suspect does not speak or understand the language of a police force, he or she is theoretically entitled to an interpreter. He or she can order an interpreter to do so. I have the following question for you. Is a sworn interpreter who is being applied for legally obliged to accept that claim? If so, what sanctions are provided for if an interpreter fails to comply with that claim?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u32	I also have a question about interpreters, but I do not know whether my question was added to Mr Van Hecke's questions. My questions are in line with Mr Van Hecke's.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u33	Your question is listed under item 23.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u34	While we are trying to find out where the answer to Question No 12739 is, I will answer Question No 12738. Indeed, Article 3 of the Programme Act of 27 December 2006 lays down the criminality of the sworn translators and interpreters as well as the experts who refuse to accept the assignment given to them by the judicial authorities. The article provides that the service provider who refuses to comply with the contract for which he was applied for shall be punished by a fine of EUR 50 to 500. The task of general interest should always be borne in mind as requested by the judicial experts, interpreters and translators in criminal matters. That mandate is essential to ensure the rights of the defence. Mr Van Hecke, in reply to your other question, in particular how far the new royal decision on court fees stands, I can tell you that we are currently in consultation with all the sectors concerned. As you know, we have already taken initiatives, which have resulted in publications, on the fees of the bailiffs in criminal matters and DNA investigations. There has also been considerable progress in tariffs on telephone charges. At the moment, as you say, advanced discussions are also taking place with the interpreters and the court experts. However, I cannot give you any further details at the moment. If you ask me that question again in writing, I will give you an answer as soon as possible. However, I am afraid to mention things that are too detailed in relation to what is currently going on. I apologize humbly for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u35	Minister, you may know that I am a very big fan of written questions, so much so that I am almost obliged to turn them into an oral question if I do not receive an answer in good time. For example, three converted questions will be discussed in the near future. I would like to ask written questions for more information if you promise to answer them within the regulatory deadlines. For the rest, I would like to thank you for the answers that have already been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u36	Mr President, Minister, some people are wondering whether there is a gap in the Civil Code, which could undermine legal certainty. Article 577-9, § 2, provides that any co-owner may request the judge to annul or reform an irregular, fraudulent or abusive decision of the general meeting. This action must be brought within four months of the date on which the general meeting took place. What then is the possibility of cancelling a general meeting of co-owners as a result of non-compliance with mandatory provisions (e.g. a quorum of less than 50% of the quotas, which would have been illegally validated by the president of the general meeting) outside the four-month period? This provision, which is based on French law, was recently interpreted by the French Court of Cassation. The latter validated any request for the annulment of a meeting if it did not comply with the mandatory provisions, regardless of the time limit within which the request was made. So, minister, would it not be appropriate to clarify the law on this matter? Are you aware of a legal debate in this respect in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u37	Mr President, Mr Massin, Article 577-9, § 2 of the Civil Code provides that any co-owner may ask the judge to reform or annul an irregular, fraudulent or abusive decision of the general meeting and that such action must be brought within four months of the date on which the general meeting took place. With regard to your question about the possibility of cancelling a decision of the general meeting of the co-owners following non-compliance with the mandatory provisions of the law outside this four-month period, I can answer the following. In a judgment of 4 February 2008 relating to article 577-9, § 2, of the Civil Code as it was in force under the Act of 30 June 1994 on condominiums, the Court of Cassation held that the co-owner who intends to invoke the irregularity of a decision of the general meeting must do so within the legally prescribed period, even when the irregularity arises from the upsetness of a provision of the basic act or the regulation of condominium with a mandatory provision of the law. After the time limit provided for in Article 577-9, § 2, which is now four months from the date on which the general meeting took place, a decision of the general meeting is therefore unattainable. The aim pursued by the legislator in setting this mandatory deadline is to avoid paralysis of the management of the condominium. I would also like to draw your attention to Article 577-6 § 10 of the Civil Code, which states that the trustee shall draw up the minutes of decisions taken by the general meeting, indicating the majorities obtained and the names of the co-owners who voted against or abstained. The minutes shall also be signed at the end of the sitting and, after rereading, by the chairman of the general meeting, but also by the secretary and all the co-owners who are still present. Paragraph 12 of the same article provides that within 30 days after the general meeting, the trustee shall record the decisions of that meeting in a register and transmit them to the co-owners and other trustees. It is therefore difficult for the President of the General Assembly to have an irregular decision of the General Assembly confirmed since, at the end of the General Assembly, the decision is subject to its signature, as well as to the signature of all the co-owners present. No co-owner present shall be required to sign the minutes if he or she is of the opinion that the decision of the general meeting is irregular. He will also have a period of four months to ask the judge for the annulment and revision of the decision. To the extent that the decision must also be addressed to all co-owners within 30 days of the general meeting, they shall have an additional period of at least three months to refer the matter to the judge. We can therefore conclude that the law is fairly clear and offers, moreover, the necessary guarantees to enable the co-owners to be informed of the decisions taken by the general meeting and to be able to act within the four-month period provided for in Article 577-9, § 2. The limitation of the right of action of the co-owner is also justified for reasons of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u38	No comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it has come back to us that the provisions of the potpourri in the matter of pre-trial detention raise practical difficulties for prosecutors who could not appeal to the immediate arrest, following the passing of a sentence of more than one year's imprisonment, when the convicted person was subjected to pre-trial detention under electronic supervision. Some believe that there would be a risk of subtraction from the execution of the sentence between the time such a sentence is handed down, a sentence that ends pre-trial detention, and the time at which this decision becomes res judicata, which allows the notification of the nut note since immediate arrest would be possible only for convicted persons left or released. Others believe that it would be possible to circumvent this difficulty by using Article 24bis, § 3, of the Law of 20 July 1990, which allows for the conversion of pre-trial detention under electronic supervision into detention in a prison upon request by the Public Prosecutor's Office. But this solution seems difficult to implement and is not exempt from criticism. Minister, do you also consider that, in the state of the law, there is a risk of subtraction from the execution of their sentence on the part of defendants in pre-trial detention under electronic supervision? In your opinion, is there a need for legislative adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Özen, we are not aware of the practical difficulties that you are referring to in connection with the immediate arrest. If, at the time of the application of Article 32(2) of the Law on Pre-trial Detention, the Public Prosecutor's Office orders the immediate arrest of the accused or the accused, provided that he is sentenced to a principal sentence of imprisonment of at least one year without suspension and because of the fear that he will escape his sentence, the fact that the person concerned appears before the judge, at liberty, under the pressure of arrest as an electronic detainee does not in principle play any role. Potpourri II has amended the provisions of article 26 of the said Act, in order to prevent a suspect who appears before the Chamber of Counsel as an electronic detainee from being released or being held in prison in the event of a return to the court of judgment. This was previously the case because of a gap in the relevant law and jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation. It has been remedied in the pot-pourri II law. However, if you have obtained further information from the field, I am of course prepared to have the matter examined by my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u42	The Court of Justice has published its report on the operation of the Brussels Court. The report is the result of an investigation that has been ongoing since September 2015. It's downright destructive. Among other things, it has been found that there is a great deal of progress in the financial section of the public prosecutors, that there is a lack of specialist investigators and fraud detecters and that there are no computer programs that should monitor the duration of the proceedings. A number of examples from the report make that painfully clear. It is clear that action must be taken in the short term so that the situation does not deteriorate further. In your reply, you will probably say what measures you have already taken, including the additional tax substitutes, which will be voted on shortly, but I do have some specific questions for you, Minister. First of all, what is your response to the report? Secondly, where do you see the main causes of the problems listed? Thirdly, were you already aware of the difficult situation of the Brussels court? If so, what steps have you taken in the past to resolve some of the problems that were already known? Fourthly, what steps do you intend to take in the near future to address the problems in the financial section of the Brussels parquet? Do you intend, for example, to draw up a concrete action plan to address the short-term backlog?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u43	Minister, I asked you last week about the designation of tax substitutes. The report of the Superior Council of Justice on the state of justice in Brussels reinforces my diagnosis. It is quite crazy about this situation in the fight against financial crime in Brussels. The report points to many shortcomings by taking as an example two cases of fraud involving amounts of more than EUR 40 million which have not been tried after more than 10 years. Other files, too many files, were prescribed for lack of timely processing. In terms of diagnosis, the Conseil Supérieur notes the decrease in the resources allocated to the financial section of the public prosecutors' offices, the lack of investigators and specialized investigators. The general phenomenon of the absence or delay of computer programs is also noted. In addition, the announced departure of 11 judges at the Brussels Court of Appeal does not augur well for an improvement in the situation. As I was telling you last week, the savings that are being made are false savings. In fact, appointed investigators and magistrates often report much more than they cost us. They participate in tax justice. I wanted to hear your reading of this report and the lessons you learn from it. And above all, what answers do you want to give to the comments contained in the report, the timetable in which they will be taken and the means to be devoted to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u44	Minister, the context has already been clarified. In the meantime, we have all been able to take note of the report by the Supreme Court of Justice which targeted the fight against fraud and financial crime in Brussels and identified a number of dysfunctions. Apart from what my fellow Members have said about staff turnover and computer programs, I am particularly concerned about the consequences. For example, cases last 10 to 15 years, which result in a limitation period, a reasonable period of time being exceeded and very minor penalties being imposed. We read in the paper that there were 20 recommendations. My initial question was if you could deliver the report. Meanwhile, we've all seen and gotten it. I just remember my last question: what actions will you take to improve the approach to this large-scale financial crime in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, a report from the Committee of Opinion and Inquiry of the High Council of Justice (CAER), which has been forwarded to you, states, as my colleagues have said, that there are shortcomings in the management of major fraud and financial crime cases in Brussels. The independent body describes the current situation of the Brussels Court of Appeal as "more than difficult". It appears from this report that the justice system is no longer able to deal with such cases, both the reduction in the resources of the financial section of the public prosecutor's offices and the lack of investigative judges and investigators specialized in this field. Although the number of substitutes for the King's Attorney specializing in tax matters had recently been increased by the programme law, those efforts seemed insufficient, according to the report. The backlog is so great that in many cases, the judge either declares the prescribed public action, or pronounces a simple conviction or a minimum sentence lower than the sentence because of the exceedance of the reasonable time limit. In particular, the report refers to a case involving an amount of over EUR 40 million which has been declared prescribed for lack of means to enable the justice system to act in a timely and timely manner. Moreover, the situation does not seem to be on the verge of being resolved once the departure of 11 magistrates is announced. These shortcomings are all the more regrettable because they have a triple impact on the authority of the State: the lack of financial returns, the costs of justice and human resources incurred in total loss and the impunity of economic and financial offenders, thus confirming a two-tiered justice system. Minister, in view of this, what actions do you intend to take to combat financial crime? What do you think of the recommendations made by the CAER? Do you intend to take this into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u46	I have taken note of the report and can reassure you that an action plan is now in progress. After all, the problem of Brussels was not unknown. The audit of the Supreme Court helps to objectify the issue and to focus my policy on the right actions. An effective fight against tax evasion effectively requires increased skills in tax and financial fraud, not only in the finance sector but also in the justice sector. That is why, during the 2016 Budget Conclave, I made the decision to double the number of tax substitutes and the number of tax officers seconded to Justice. As a result of a consultation that I already had in February 2016 with my Finance colleague, it was also decided to create a task force in order to strengthen structural cooperation and cooperation between our two departments in the approach to tax fraud. This task force will prepare the "una via" legislation and will further harmonize the administrative route to finance and the judicial route. On 10 May, the introduction of the Task Force took the form of a strategic seminar "Tax and Public Prosecutor's Office, partners in the fight against tax fraud", which brought together experts from both departments on the theme of closer collaboration in the fight against tax fraud. The increase in the number of tax substitutes will be achieved by supplementing the existing framework with 6 persons and by providing, in the programme law, for an extension of the framework for 9 persons, through an amendment of the law of 3 April 1953 on the judicial organization. Thus, the number of tax substitutes will increase from 15 to 30; 10 of them are destined for Brussels. The vote on the programme law will take place at tomorrow's plenary session and my administration is preparing for the announcement of these jobs. In addition to increasing the number of magistrates, the number of officials of the tax administrations made available to the judiciary is also increased. That doubling shall be carried out by adapting the Annex to the Royal Decree of 29 January 2007 laying down the rules by which officials of the tax administration are made available to the Public Prosecutor of the King or to the Employment Officer in order to assist them in the performance of their duties. A draft has already been submitted to Finance, so that Finance can start its trade union consultations with a view to achieving the posting as soon as possible. In addition to the additional competence and cooperation of competences, the programme law also provides more power for the justice services, by organising electronic access to the central contact point at the National Bank for both the court and courts. The simple search will ensure that in financial investigations not all financial institutions need to be signed up to find out who holds which bank accounts. The Brussels Public Prosecutor-General is also taking action to remedy the situation in Brussels. In February 2015, a pool of ECOFIN FISC was established that centralises all ECOFIN files at the level of the resort. Those files, which deal with financial and fiscal crime as well as environmental crime, will then be dealt with on the basis of the verticality principle, either by a magistrate of the Court of First Instance or by a magistrate of the Public Prosecutor General, in order to avoid duplication of work and to ensure faster follow-up. The prosecution confirms to give priority to those ECOFIN files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u47	Indeed, Minister, I could have predicted part of your answer. Ultimately, it is important that you have an action plan ready. However, three to five years ago there was a cry for help on television when we saw on television the images of all the tax files that were there. At the same time, action was suddenly taken and all kinds of measures were taken. I remember that there was also support from the public prosecutors and magistrates were sent to first instance to help them on the spot. The system of verticality was also introduced at that time. Today I hear again talk about reinforcements, about appealing to the public prosecutor and about the system of verticality. This happened a few years ago, which may have made it possible to overcome some delays in the short term, but it has grown again in the meantime. So there's a yo-yo movement. It is therefore necessary to take some very structural measures to prevent the situation from repeating itself. I have not yet received an answer to the question as to what period of time the delay can be resolved? Is there a visual on that? Is there a schedule for that? Have you set the objective that the backlog should be structurally eliminated in two to three years' time? That is, of course, important. If not, we risk that many things will be either time-barred or that the reasonable time-limit will be exceeded, after which no penalty or very light penalty will be imposed. Can you comment on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u48	Mr President, in the wake of my excellent colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, together with our group, we support all the measures that can better combat financial crime judicially. As you know, we have many texts and when you, as a minister, bring interesting texts, we vote with a majority. But the constant observation that I have been able to make since I was a member of this Parliament (since 2007) and that I have been dealing with the matter is that it is not the subject of sufficient budgetary and organisational choices that are sufficiently followed and proactive. Maybe it'll change with you. You inherit a situation and a backlog that, by definition, precedes you. But your responsibility is to ensure that it is fulfilled, if I may say so, at the end of the legislature. We expect decisions in terms of means, which will allow the justice system to decide on cases and make decisions that will also be a signal of society. In my view, justice serves to provide guidance on what can be done and what cannot be done. I think you cannot cite a major financial crime case that has led to a judgment that is symbolic enough to mark the minds of the past ten years. This is the consequence of this lack of resources. I ask you to replenish the judicial machinery in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u49	Very briefly, Minister. I thank you for your answer and we know for a long time that this is a point of interest and we will take care and see how and what we can do to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. We know that the programme law has increased the number of substitutes for the King's Attorney specializing in tax matters. However, when we look at the report, which sheds light on these dysfunctions, it seems that this is still not enough, as the efforts to be made are immense. According to the report, further efforts should be made for each link in the criminal chain, both on the part of the prosecutor's office and of the investigating judges or magistrates at the head office, as well as of the police services. On the other hand, it is good to increase the framework, but it should still be completed. The complaints made by the magistrates attest to this. In this regard, I would also like to go back to page 14 of this report. It states: "The recruitment of substitutes for the King's Attorney specializing in tax matters is not easy. However, consideration is being given to this issue in order to find ways to attract officials from the Special Inspectorate of Taxes and the Social Inspectorate to the judiciary." We know how important this is, because the competent authorities need more resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u51	Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Becq has another question. Do you have any time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u52	Yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u53	In particular, I asked myself whether my question could not be merged with Mr Van Hecke's question. It is also a question of the legal experts and interpreters. The minister said he'd take care of this. We are, of course, very pleased with this because we know that this has remained a little behind after the proposal on the subject was adopted. You made sure, Minister, that it was finally published. At the same time, there is indeed also the discussion about the rates of remuneration of translators/interpreters and experts. I therefore have a number of questions. You would come up with a draft law to make a number of changes or correct a number of anomalies. When can we expect this initiative? With regard to the Royal Decree on tariffs, we ask ourselves whether, in addition to these tariffs, you also provide for a number of organisational measures. We hear from translators/interpreters that they come for a sitting and sometimes have to wait a long time to intervene only once. The question may be asked whether this cannot be grouped together so that an interpreter can work in different sessions. I sometimes refer to the responsibilities of courts and autonomy in organisation. In this respect, you may provide for measures in the Royal Decree on tariffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u54	Mr President, the preliminary draft law amending the Law of 10 April 2014 on the National Register of Experts and Interpreters is delivered to the Council of State for its opinion in accordance with Article 84, § 1, paragraph 1, second, of the coordinated laws of the Council of State. It was approved by the government at first reading and, after receiving the opinion of the Council of State, it will be brought back to the Council of Ministers and then submitted to the Chamber. Without discrimination against Mr Van Hecke, I can, like him, answer your other question that a distinction needs to be made between the long-standing comprehensive reform of court fees, referring to the replacement of the old Royal Decree of 1950, the previous attempt of which failed in 2008 after the destruction of his intended successor, and the revision of the rates applied to the various professions and service providers. A series of decisions are currently being prepared in which tariffs are structured in a modern and detailed manner and adapted to current circumstances. The overall reform does not yet allow a calendar to be drawn up, but the various tariff decisions, including those for translators and interpreters, have to be taken and published this year. The following tariff decisions have already been published: the bailiffs, DNA analyses and blood and saliva analyses. The following have been completed: the telephone tap and the translations and interpreters in the preliminary draft budget. The following are almost finished: toxicological analyses, other than DNA analyses, and psychiatrists and psychologists for internment courts. I do not think I can give a much more precise answer, Mr President. I wonder whether it would not be wise to combine Mr Van Hecke's second question with this question. If that is not possible, I will be happy to try to answer his question even more precisely next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u55	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u56	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u57	I had originally tabled that question in writing, but in view of the forthcoming holiday for us and for the magistrates, I turned it into an oral question. In this country not all courts and courts are equally operational during the big holiday. This inevitably has an impact on the staff's ability to take their own leave. Their tasks may also be changed to a greater or lesser extent. There is also, of course, the intensity of work which increases if there is to be as much work with fewer people to do and if the service is to decrease during the holiday months. Is there a uniform holiday arrangement at the courts, courts, parquets and parquets-general? If not, what different systems for the holiday service are currently used at the courts, the courts, the parquets and the parquets-general? Can you give an overview of which court, court, parquet and parquet general is using which system? What is the impact of the different systems on the labour intensity and well-being of the staff? If there are major differences, do you think that is an acceptable situation or do you want to do something about it? If so, what proposals do you have to reduce the differences?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u58	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the holiday arrangements for magistrates, referees, public prosecutors and clerks are governed by Articles 331 and 334 of the Code of Justice. Article 331 of the Code of the Court of Justice states that a magistrate, referendaris, public prosecutor or a member of the Registry may not be absent if the service suffers from it. An absence for more than three days shall require a licence from the Chief Constable and for an absence of more than one month from the Minister. A similar provision in Article 331a of the Civil Code shall apply to the members of the Public Prosecutor's Secretariat and to the chief secretaries. Article 334 provides that the judicial year shall begin on 1 September and end on 30 June. From 1 July to 30 August, the courts and courts hold holiday sessions. The annual leave for other staff is provided for in the Royal Decree of 16 March 2001 on leave and absences granted to certain staff of the services which will assist the judiciary. The Royal Decree provides that annual leave shall be taken at the choice of the staff member and in accordance with the needs of the service. As a rule, the courts and courts deal with urgent cases during that period. The organisation of the service should provide the opportunity to take a holiday and assign a number of days to each magistrate on which he is not on duty. The chief of police shall record the timetable during the judicial holiday after consultation with the magistrate. That timetable shall be established by decision. Usually the service of the sessions during the judicial holiday is regulated by the setting of a turn-roll from 15 days to 1 month per magistrate. The duration of the turn is mainly determined by the size of the court. The smaller the court, the longer the service period. Apart from the differences that may sometimes exist between courts and which may vary the number of holiday days, there are nevertheless some main trends. The magistrates take holidays in July and August. They can take a week's vacation at Easter and Christmas. A holiday that falls on a legal holiday will not be converted. Those are my brief answers, Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is not, of course, about the legal provisions. They're clear. It is about the regulations and decisions that are being taken on the ground. As you state yourself, the regulations on the ground may vary from court to court. Sometimes there's a big difference. Some magistrates can spend 2 or 3 weeks on vacation, others a month. The division of labour may vary considerably. However, I understand from your answer that you cannot do much about it yourself and that it belongs to the Chief Constable's autonomy. This is perhaps something that needs to be examined more closely, and perhaps this is a task for the new bodies when there will be more autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u60	Mr Minister, this question was also submitted in writing but was not answered in good time. Magistrates who, for some reason, no longer fulfil their duties in the court, court or court in which they were appointed, but who are employed in a full-time capacity elsewhere, shall in principle be deemed to return to their corps after that mission has been terminated. There are many examples: the chairman and magistrates, members of the P Committee and the I Committee, the director of the OCAD, the director of the IGO, the Belgian liaison magistrate in Morocco, the magistrates in office in international institutions and so on. It seems obvious that a magistrate who has left his corps to perform an assignment with another institution will resume his original function of magistrate as soon as possible after that specific task has been terminated. Yet that would not always be the case. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Are there any cases of magistrates who, after an end to a full-time assignment outside their corps, do not immediately return to the court, court or court in which they were appointed and first take leave for a certain period of time? If so, how many magistrates are involved and how long does that leave take on average? In which corps has such a situation occurred over the past three years? In view of the frequent problems with sufficient fines from the courts, it seems important to me to have this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u61	Mr Van Hecke, you are right to point out that various legal provisions provide for the possibility of a magistrate being awarded a contract outside his jurisdiction. The duration of such contracts is different on the basis of the finality and legal basis of the contract. It goes without saying that magistrates shall be deemed to resume their duties under their jurisdiction of origin once the reason for the order has expired. Authorisations for absence of less than one month shall be granted by the Chiefs of Staff concerned. According to Article 332 of the Civil Code, the absence of more than one month requires authorisation from the Minister of Justice. My administration has not received an application for the long-term absence of a magistrate on assignment. There are also no known situations in the past where a magistrate has not returned after the expiry of his mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u62	You say there are no known situations. There may be, Minister, but you are not aware of it. I may have to ask you another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u63	Mr President, Minister, in 2003, terrorism and terrorist activities were entered in the Criminal Code. Article 141a of that law provides that this title, and I quote, does not apply to acts of armed forces during an armed conflict as defined in and subject to international humanitarian law, nor to the acts of the armed forces of a State in the exercise of their official duties in so far as those acts are subject to other provisions of international law. You see, this has to be read three times to understand what is actually meant. At the time of the legislative amendment of 2013, nothing was changed about this passage. However, there are a number of questions. I even remember when we discussed the following questions when we amended certain provisions of the Criminal Code on terrorism. Firstly, can you tell me how many times the Article 141a has been invoked by the defence or prosecutor in a terrorist case since the entry into force of this provision? Secondly, what was the result of this provision being invoked? In other words, how often did the court decide that the exclusion ground of Article 141a was applicable or not? And how many times was that interpretation crucial to the final verdict? Thirdly, what armed forces and armed conflicts, as referred to in Article 141a, have been or have not been accepted by our courts and courts? Can an overview be given of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u64	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, Article 141a of the Criminal Code determines the relationship between terrorist offences and the law of armed conflicts. Since the entry into force of this provision, the defence systematically introduces Article 141a into the files relating to Islamic or jihadist terrorism. This involved the Iraqi, Somali, Chechen and Syrian issues. In particular, with regard to the Syrian conflict and foreign fighters, this issue has been addressed at least eight times in criminal proceedings over the past two years. The last relevant judgment is the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 21 May last in the Sharia4Belgium case. The action was partially based on a breach of Article 141a and was dismissed. In all cases, the court, the appeal court or the Court of Cassation has so far concluded that Article 141a was not applicable. Courts have never disputed that the conflict in Syria was a non-international armed conflict. On the other hand, the classification of the terrorist group Islamic State and its predecessors and of the terrorist group Jabhat al-Nosra as armed forces was systematically rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u65	Thank you very much for this information, Minister. I think it is interesting that we know how the courts and courts apply these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic459x.u66	Mr. Pivin asked that questions 12619 and 12627 be deferred. My question No 12667 ran into the one asked last week by Mrs De Wit. I will therefore thank you for reading the answer, since the answer had been given. Mr Cheron asked for a postponement of his question No 12783. Mrs Fonck also asked for the postponement of her question No 12784. Joined Questions Nos 12786, 12787 by Mrs Fonck and 12801 by Mrs Uyttersprot are postponed. The same applies to questions Nos 12799 and 12800 by Mrs Uyttersprot and to question No 12814 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
