ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u1	Colleagues, this afternoon's committee's work will focus on the future pact with the pharmaceutical sector for the benefit of the patient. A presentation will be made by the Minister. Then I will give the floor to the members of the committee for their supplementary questions or comments, as well as for a reminder of any elements of their oral questions tabled that would not have been dealt with in the minister's answer. The whole thing will be gathered in this way. I'll leave this bench so I can watch the power points. A question/answer report will be prepared by the Debriefing Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, we are here today to talk about the future pact for the patient, which we have concluded with the pharmaceutical industry. I want to talk not only about the original Future Pact, signed by both pharma.be, FeBelGen and us, but also about its implementation, of course. The President has already pointed out that this must be in the interests of the patient. It's about the future of our patients. It is a unique pact between the government and the pharmaceutical industry. What are the challenges? The challenge is of course known to the patient. The increasing number of elderly people and the increasing number of chronically ill people make particular demands on our health care, especially with regard to the availability of medicines and also with regard to the increasingly innovative medicines that are coming. We know that science is evolving rapidly, which offers new opportunities. Think of the increasingly personalized therapies for many diseases. What is the government's starting point? That's the patient's focus. It is indeed the concern of health and of myself that in future our patients and future generations of patients should have access to these innovative medicines and to personalised medicine. As you know, we are operating with budgetary constraints, and that is something that we must take into account. As far as clinical research is concerned, Belgium is at the European summit. We will take steps to maintain this leadership over the next few years. You also know that the pharmaceutical sector is facing many challenges. Think of the rising development costs and the uncertainty about budgetary possibilities. In order to invest well, the necessary information on the budgetary framework and possibilities should actually be available in advance in industry too for years. Until recently this was not possible and everything went from year to year and, then, from budgetary control to budgetary control. That, of course, makes it difficult for the sector to make plans. As you know, our pharmaceutical industry is also facing budgetary constraints. A statue says more than a thousand words. If we do nothing, the result is obvious. A few months ago, it was also clear that there was no ready-to-use solution. That's why we met with the pharmaceutical industry for brainstorming out of the box. We are all proud of the solution found after six months. This pact of the future for the benefit of the patient consists of a series of agreements for the coming years, concluded between the public sector and two federative organizations, pharma.be and FeBelGen. With this pact, we intend to achieve four important objectives. - Accessibility: we want to ensure that our patients will have better access, faster, to innovative therapies. - Growth and innovation: the public sector creates a stable framework for industry, so that it can continue to develop innovative medicines and therapies, so that our country remains, for example, a leader in clinical trials. This promotes access to the latest innovations as well as employment in this sector. - Ethics: we have concluded agreements on relations between the pharmaceutical sector and the public sector, on the one hand, and on relations between the sector and the patient, on the other, so that these relations are even more correct. - Fiscal stability and predictability, which are always difficult: the aim is to give the industry financial predictability over several years. At the same time, we also want to control spending. It is known that every small municipality must have a multi-annual pact and a multi-annual budget. Until recently, that was not the case for the federal government. So we wanted to change that and went for a multi-annual pact, a budgetary framework for the next three years, i.e. until 2018. As far as accessibility is concerned, in accordance with the government agreement, the first pillar of our pact focuses on an accessible health care system. The main objective is for patients to have faster access to innovative therapies. For the patient, the bill for medication is decreasing. Together, the public sector and industry introduced structural measures in 2015 to make original and generic medicines less expensive for the patient. These measures cover an annual amount of 23 million. In 2018, the amount saved for the patient will amount to almost 60,000 euros. With a legal change, the innovation will be accessible to the patient two months earlier than expected. We simplify procedures for certain research, particularly international ones. Once the level of competence has been reached and the necessary guarantees for the patient's safety have been verified, the work should not be performed again, which should shorten the journey time of a new drug. We start from the principle of pay for performance. In other words, we pay for things that we can measure and that are effective. We do not pay what cannot be measured. As far as efficiency is concerned, you know that we have opted for the cheapest prescription measure. Referring to the 2015 results, there is strong competition in the off patent market. In terms of availability, medical needs are not met, medicines are orphaned. As you know, we are working with the Netherlands and Luxembourg on this issue. The second pillar of our pact is growth and innovation. This is, of course, an absolute must if we want new medicines to continue to be developed in our country. Our pharmaceutical industry must be able to continue to innovate. That is why we are maintaining a whole series of tax measures. Similarly, we will discuss with the Ministry of Finance the launch of a biotechnological shelter tax for early developments. A working group will study drug prices, which must be transparent and take into account both production costs and research investments. As you know, science evolves at the speed of light. We must stand ready to use all these new opportunities for the benefit of patients. A lot of products will be launched, such as stem cell therapy, while other particularly innovative techniques are only in the study phase and applied in hospitals. Now we need to develop a legal arsenal to frame these biological banks and advanced therapy products so that they can be used outside hospital research centres. We will also create an observatory to monitor the innovative pharmaceutical industry in our country. In addition, we will take steps and organise careful monitoring to maintain our competitiveness. It is essential that Belgium remains a European leader in clinical trials. We owe our leadership position so far to our short approval procedures. Ethics committees and competent authorities consider this important. We have highly qualified clinical researchers and highly developed research centres. We want to maintain it, and we will strengthen the expertise of our administrations, including the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. We will also ensure that the short approval period is maintained and that the procedures are still shortened and simplified, but always while maintaining their quality. We want to work on finding patients who want to participate in clinical trials. This will be easier because we will link up different registers. In doing so, the patient's safety and privacy will be fully respected. We will also examine the conditions under which the industry can have access to completely anonymous data on the use of medicines and healthcare. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, when talking about big data here, it is fully anonymized data from large patient groups. The correct information about the evolution of the number of diabetic patients, for example, can encourage a pharmaceutical company to invest in new medicines that can be used in that domain. In the field of vaccineology, we agree to develop the Vaccines Excellency Centre into a European reference centre. Together with industry, we are also developing a new strategy for the development of antibiotics. These include a better distribution of the development of new antibiotics. That's how I get to the third hatch, the deontology. As you know, the pharmaceutical sector has so far been one of the most highly regulated sectors in the world. In addition to government legislation, this industry has its own rules. In this pact, both public authorities and industry are going one step further and there is a package of agreements, the most important of which remains that the patient's interest comes first. The patient's interest means that pharmaceutical companies must always act in the interest of the patient who must be able to benefit from the best possible treatment. With regard to the duty of transparency, pharmaceutical companies will be more transparent in their relationship with health professionals and their organizations, which means, for example, that they will publish all donations to patient organisations. All value transfers, in cash, in kind or in any other form, to health professionals and their organizations are affected by this duty of transparency. This obligation also applies to the goods, services and personnel that are made available. The data covered by the transparency obligation will be published on the platform www.betransparent.be. Persons with a real or suspected conflict of interest in a drug file may not participate in the vote on the file. First, all persons who are members of an official body will make a relevant statement in advance and periodically on their direct and indirect interests in pharmaceutical companies. All clinical trial results will be made public, even if they are negative or unfavourable. Drug information can only encourage rational use. The quality control of the information provided will be further improved. Advertising for over-the-counter drugs, like some painkillers, must include short and clear messages, unlike some messages that are incomprehensible and are read at all speed in radio spots today. Then we come to an important balancing exercise. That image is well chosen. To invest, companies need stability and predictability. If a company can estimate in advance what is expected of it and how revenue and expenditure will evolve in the coming years, it can also plan research projects more easily than if it has to do so year by year. In the past efforts were still required between the years in, and the route. Of course, that's the best way to get all the companies out of our country. This is why industry and public authorities are making a series of very concrete agreements on the budgetary framework for the coming years in the future pact. The framework can be found in the brochure, which we have provided to you. It contains all the expectations: how much will the patient save, how much will the government save and in what will the government invest the resources saved? The patient takes advantage of it. The government has given its word to reinvest the amount saved. As has been said, we are giving a multi-annual perspective and predictability by strengthening competition mainly on the off-patent market. The price of the medicines on the off-patent market, whose patent has expired and which may be produced freely, will fall, not only for the patient, but also for the government. From 2015 to 2018 350 million euros will be released annually. This amount will be invested in the development and reimbursement of innovative medicines. Through structural reforms, the government and industry reduce the pharmaceutical bill for patients. Thanks to reforms and price reductions for ineffective treatments, the government itself will also save 226 million from 2018. Through these savings, the government can allow industry a tax reduction of 13% on turnover. This is a positive signal for a sector which is currently creating 35 000 jobs in our country and is responsible for 13% of our exports. The patent cliff, as discussed in committee in December, is one of the structural reforms. The price of a medicine that is no longer patented is falling. This used to be done through smaller successive price reductions. Now the price drops once, but she dives down from a cliff as it were. As a result, producers also have an incentive to continue investing in new products in order to safeguard their income flow. That's how we hit two birds with one stone. The government will develop a structural system for the reimbursement of hepatitis C medicines for which there is a high medical need. In that context, we also considered the medication for fibrosis stage 2. We are also aiming for price competition through the launch of biosimilary medicines. We therefore want to encourage the use of the biosimilars. A large turnover can reduce the price. At the beginning of January, we signed a gentlemen's agreement with the pharmaceutical industry and numerous representatives of the medical organizations on the increased use of biosimular medicines in the following months. That is the goal for 2015 to 2018. We have concluded the pact in the interests of the patient, to ensure that innovative medicines and therapies will be available in the future. To our pharmaceutical companies we also give the necessary oxygen to keep renewing. In addition, we want to remain the first in the clinical trials. I'll give you the numbers. We will invest 350 million in innovation by 2018. The patient bill will go down every year. In 2018, it will amount to 60 million euros. The government will save a total of 226.4 million. That is, of course, necessary in order to stay on the road, as it is prescribed for us by Europe. The industry gets its tax reduction on the turnover of 35 million. We also invest 4.7 million in our administrations to strengthen them. The motto of the future pact, a unique document that has not yet been drawn up in any other country, is to be able to offer patients the best in the next few years. At the same time, we give our pharmaceutical industry the opportunity to continue to grow and innovate, so that we can maintain our top position in clinical studies and innovation. We also have clear agreements on deontology. We also have a stable, sustainable and predictable budgetary framework within which the pharmaceutical industry can better plan and manage its investments. We have signed the pact, together with the representative of pharma.be present here, Mrs Rutten, and Mr Joris Van Assche of FeBelGen. Their employees and, in particular, the staff of the Farma policy cell have been negotiating in my cabinet for six months. To point out for a moment that it can also be different than in politics, in those six months there has been no leak of information. I believe that we can all learn something from this and I count on it. The motto of the pact is "care to change and change to care." That actually says everything. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as implementation is concerned, I will be happy to give an update later. At first, of course, it is up to you to ask your questions. They will be answered, as will all the questions that have already been tabled on the subject. That is how it is agreed with the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u3	Minister, thank you for the concise presentation of this pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u4	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the conciseness and precision of the presentation of this pact. I emphasize the aesthetic aspect of the Powerpoint. Your collaborators have turned away in creativity and it is a pleasure at the beginning of the year. We have learned of this pact with great interest. It has the merit of existence and you know that you have the support of my group when it comes to making sure that the price of medicines is reduced. It is a benefit to the health care budget and a benefit to patients as it is known that spending on drugs accounts for 35% of health care expenditure. You also know that, on a regular basis, we support you, and we will continue to do so, when the patient is at the centre of your concerns. During the discussion of your general policy note, we strongly supported the patent cliff, on which I will not return. You just rebuked its content. I also point out another positive element, a step forward for patients: the reimbursement of medicines as soon as the favourable decision is published on the INAMI website. We're going to gain two months from the previous situation in terms of reimbursement. So here are a number of positive elements. The rest is not negative but only concerns small supplementary information questions. So I have a number of small questions. You stressed the importance of the multiannual budgetary framework, in order to provide industry with more prospects for the future, visibility, return, stability and investment capacity. My question is quite simple. Although you have set a number of benchmarks, in the event of unfavourable budgetary prospects, do you not fear that the bill will go on the back of compulsory insurance? That is the subject of my first question. It is good that there is financial budgetary stability for the sector but it is countered if the budgetary perspective becomes unfavourable unexpectedly, who pays? In budgetary terms, you have again said that the bill for medicines will fall by 60 million in the course of this Parliament, and we understand that. So we are talking about a combined effort over four years. If so, the result is about 4 X 12 or 4 X 13. We tend to consider that the figure is far from impressive when we know that the user ticket is decreasing by about 10 million each year, since 2009, and that it has even fallen by more than 50 million in 2010 alone. Please confirm that we are sure that these 60 million will also take into account the measures that have been decided by the previous government. I would like to hear from you in this regard. Another issue concerns the measure to cap the supplement in the reference refund at EUR 5, compared to the current rate of EUR 10.8. I also have some doubts about the real impact on patients. It seems to me that the bulk of the packs with supplements are already below 5 euros. Can you give me the figures for packaging currently beyond this EUR 5 threshold? The impact on user tickets is estimated at €3.2 million, while the simple removal of these supplements would reduce the patient's bill by several tens of millions of euros. To conclude with the budgetary aspects, we have the impression that measures to change the behaviour of prescribing in order to control volumes are still insufficient. You are planning only for the moment to set up a working group called "effective prescription". Who will make up this working group and when will the recommendations of this working group be known? I still have two little things to discuss. One concerns the ethics to which you referred. I would also like to return to the place of mutualities and industry. Given the place given to the patient, your pact proposes a better representation of the patient on ethics committees, for example, or through a strengthening of the patient platform within the Federal Agency for Medicine and Health Care. Of course, we salute him. On the other hand, I would like to know why mutualities have not been involved in drawing up this pact, although they have an undeniable added value as advocates for patients, but also as managers of sickness and disability insurance. It appears that different working groups will now address issues related to reimbursement of medicines and access for patients. Could you tell me if you intend, in this case, to associate mutualities? It seems to me, on the other hand, that this pact clearly tends to strengthen the influence of the pharmaceutical industry in decisions on medicines, again to the detriment of mutualities and therefore of patients. To be more precise, the Drug Reimbursement Commission currently has 22 voters, including 8 representatives of insurers, 7 representatives of universities and 7 representatives of medical and pharmacist associations. The pharmaceutical industry is present with two members who have a consultative voice. Decisions shall be taken by two thirds of the votes and the opinions expressed by the members shall, in principle, be argued on a scientific basis. The pact now provides for secret balloting and giving the president the right to vote in order, you say, to "balance university votes with those of insurers". Why this decision? There is, of course, a fear that this anonymization of votes will make the procedure less transparent, since we do not know who votes, reduce the burden of mutualities and increase the influence of firms in reimbursement decisions, to the detriment of patients. In terms of ethics, which must be demonstrated by the pharmaceutical industry, this is obviously an essential element for our group. We have, moreover, succeeded in having an important bill passed under the previous legislature on the independence of experts and, therefore, on decisions taken in the field of public health. Some new advances are announced today, but the pact relies primarily on self-regulation by the sector. I therefore wanted to know, Madam Minister, what steps you are going to take to be able to control this self-regulation and see if it is actually operational. Here are my brief questions, Madam Chair! I still need more specific questions on drugs. I assume they will be grouped into the general intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u5	It's possible! What do you think, minister? Do you accept specific questions now, rather than a second round?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u7	I therefore conclude with the three questions that were asked by my group. Minister, my first question concerns Truvada. Your French counterpart, Marisol Touraine, has just authorized the use of Truvada, an antiretroviral cocktail, as a preventive treatment for AIDS. The aim of this use is to make significant progress in the fight against HIV and to limit the number of new infections. Indeed, taken before and after unprotected sex, it reduces the risk of HIV infection by 86%. With our French neighbours, it would only be issued with a prescription and intended for a target audience, namely those at risk. The pack of 30 tablets is sold 560.75 euros. In France, 100% social security coverage is planned for January 2016. Minister, what are your intentions in this regard? Could Truvada move from curative treatment to preventive treatment in our country? If this were the case, could it be covered entirely by the sickness and disability insurance? Under what conditions could this medicine then be delivered? I have another question about the reimbursement of HIV treatments. Currently, people infected with HIV but with a CD4 load in the blood of more than 500 cannot be reimbursed for their treatment with INAMI. You will agree that the cost of this treatment, which amounts to 1,000 euros per month, can quickly prove impeccable. However, in addition to increasing life expectancy, this treatment allows HIV-positive people to continue to have an emotional and sexual life with a near-zero risk of contaminating their partner. It is therefore important that each of these people, regardless of their CD4 load in the blood, have access to it, as the World Health Organization has been advocating since last September. According to reports in the press, you would be looking at the possibility of changing the reimbursement criteria so that every person with HIV can benefit from the reimbursement of their treatment, as recommended by your predecessor's HIV plan. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, what changes are envisaged and on what basis? How long is the application of these possible new criteria expected? Finally, I am addressing a question about cancer treatments. The Lancet Oncology magazine recently published a study on the different rates charged by the pharmaceutical industry for cancer treatments. More specifically, researchers compared official prices in 18 countries for 31 recently marketed cancer drugs. Unfortunately, our country is in the soft belly of this ranking. This means that the prices of this type of medicine are in the higher average. According to your firm, the reason for this difference would be to look for in the size of the Belgian market. As one of your collaborators explains: "The size of the market plays a major role in such negotiations. In order to create a wider territory and to weigh more heavily in the negotiations, we are trying to combine our forces with the Netherlands and Luxembourg." However, it seems to me that the size of our market cannot be the only reason for the higher prices in our country. Indeed, to look at it more closely, Portugal and Greece are among the countries benefiting from the most advantageous tariffs. You will agree with me, minister, that the size of their respective markets is no greater than ours – quite the contrary. Given the importance of this file, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm to me the price figures for cancer medicines published in this study? Are negotiations under way with the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? If so, where are they? What other measures do you intend to take to reduce the price of these medicines? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u8	Mr Frédéric, you asked the questions of the colleagues in your group. We will then see whether we continue to do so or whether the presence of members who have tabled questions should be required. In any case, let us wait until the end of this first experiment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u9	Madam President, Minister, you will not be surprised that the Members of the European Parliament wish to congratulate you on this pact. It can be said that this is an historic pact, especially as it creates a win-win situation for all parties involved. In the first instance, it represents a profit for the patient, for whom a number of medicines become cheaper, but who can also gain faster access to innovative medicines, often for life-threatening conditions or conditions that have a huge impact on the quality of life. It is also beneficial for the pharmaceutical industry, for various reasons: a multi-annual plan which ensures a stable climate for the next four years, faster procedures and availability of data for clinical trials, so that we can maintain our lead position in clinical trials. It offers prospects to pharmaceutical companies that develop new medicines by respecting the patent and improving the conditions for clinical research, and to the generic pharmaceutical industry by patent cliff. There really is the card drawn from the cheap medicine to go, once the patent has expired, for a substantial drop in prices. Finally, this pact is also a positive story for the government, as in addition to the patient, it also saves the government and thus in times of budgetary tight resources is available to invest in innovative medicines. It is important for a government to be able to give its citizens rapid access to innovative and effective treatments. The reason why this plan has been drawn up is, of course, the accessibility of medicines to patients. The savings in brake money this legislature will undoubtedly improve the affordability of care, and thus the accessibility of the patient. At least as important to that patient is that he gets access to innovative medicines faster than in the past. You now provide EUR 1.4 billion for faster reimbursement of innovative medicines, shorten reimbursement, approval and recognition procedures if the medicine has already been approved at European level or in another EU Member State, and encourage companies to submit files to extend indications. It is a completely new fact that the government sends such a signal. In the past, the opposite signals were often given because of the budgetary context. I have some questions. How can we guarantee that there will be an efficient pharmaceutical agency that can fulfil its role, both in terms of efficient processes and in terms of funding? In the past, I have also asked oral questions on the regular phenomenon of the unavailability of medicinal products. In addition to efficient management and communication on these inabilitys, the future pact highlights the efforts of the pharmaceutical sector in this area. Can we be more specific about the approach? How can we prevent medicinal products intended for the hospital environment that do not meet public contracts from being withdrawn from reimbursement because they may no longer be sold for more than a year? We are also regularly confronted in the press with huge amounts of innovative medicines. We know that scientific research is expensive and that a lot of research does not result in a drug that can be marketed, because it is sometimes found rather late that the side effects are too great. Price setting is therefore a very complex issue, but transparency about it is important for the legitimacy of the refund. We read that a working group will examine the transparent cost of medicines. That is a good thing, but we would have liked to have been given a little more explanation and a timing for the setting up of the working group. What exactly is this working group expected to do? Access to new medicines also means creating the framework conditions for companies to bring about this innovation. We are the champions of clinical research at European level and we are among the best in the world. MSD and Janssen Pharmaceutica realize 90% of the clinical trials phase 1 in our country. Pfizer has his own lab in our country. I am pleased to see that you are not wallowing in complacency, but are taking measures to maintain that head position. I am thinking here of your efforts to make it easier to recruit patients by aligning more databases and registers, by enabling patients' files from university hospitals to be screened automatically. Nor can the importance of better exchange of samples of human body material from academic biobanks to industry and vice versa for biotechnology be overestimated. Open data is important for the research, of course with due respect for privacy. The resolution on personalised medicine was adopted in the previous legislature. It is clear that, in future, we will be increasingly moving towards specialized medicine. However, specialized medicine concerns a very specific group of patients and also a very small group of patients. The question I have to ask is whether we will also be able to quickly trace that small and very specific group of patients for that clinical trial. How will that work? You would like all results of clinical trials to be disclosed, including the negative ones. That is an important demand. Can you give us some more information about the timing? How are you going to deal with this, given that this is also a cross-border issue? Important in your plan is that it spans several years. When we ask companies what they need to flourish, legal certainty and a stable legislative environment is a recurring question. It's no different for pharmaceutical companies. More importantly, it is more important, because they often have their registered office abroad and have to give text and explanation about our working methods. By working with a multi-year plan, you will provide them with a clearer framework for this legislature. I am also pleased that you pay attention to ethical aspects. In principle, a complete separation is indeed desirable between the person who decides on the refund and the person who produces the product, the care and the services for which recognition or reimbursement is sought. This is a basic attitude which is desirable for the whole of health care. This is not always evident in a system where the actors are also more decisive. It would be appropriate to extend this principle to health care. There are many health professionals who, on the one hand, are financed by statutory health insurance and, on the other hand, are in decision-making bodies dealing with that funding. I hope that we can take further steps there. A good start is sure that any conflicts of interest will at least become transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for your statement. I agree with Mr Somers. The pact that was concluded is a strong result. The government agreement also stipulated that a multi-annual pact should be established with the pharmaceutical sector. You succeeded in that with your team, Madam Secretary. I believe that you have done a great deal of work. What charms me especially about your plan is already on the first slide of your presentation. I have once been critical of certain issues, but now I am very pleased that in your presentation the word "patient' is the first to appear. It remains a very strong pact for the patient, even for us, no matter how warm we are to the industry. I will not repeat your plan, but you have, for example, provided a strong qualitative input in terms of price. The measures in this connection have already been cited by my fellow Members. You've also provided access for the patient. In terms of innovation, it is also clear that the negotiations were conducted from the patient's point of view. I think that is a very good thing. It is, of course, also very good that the multi-annual pact includes budgetary commitments and also a vision agreed with the sector. I have pointed this out many times in this committee. Mr Frédéric, I can hear you making comments on this, but I can only observe that in the previous legislatures too often, when a budgetary gap had to be closed, the pharmaceutical sector was looked at to make savings. These savings were often at odds with policy and the vision expressed. In this sense, I am pleased that the multiannual plan not only sets out the budget for several years, but also sets out a vision for working. This strong vision is based mainly on post-patent medicinal products and also on orphan medicinal products. I think it is very important that these points are included; the Minister has also mentioned this. I also mention the biosimilary medicines. On these points we have a delay to catch up on, and that is now clearly in the Pact. We are therefore very positive about the Pact. Madam Secretary, I just have a few questions. At the beginning of your speech, you pointed out that last year, in 2015, we changed the rules in order to prescribe cheaply. We then changed the rule of 50 %, which means that the cheapest means must always be prescribed. We had agreed on an evaluation path on this. Halfway through last year there would be a qualitative evaluation and now, beginning of January 2016, also a quantitative evaluation. I understand from your statement that you already have figures on this and that you can tell us a few things. That is why I would have liked to hear from you where we stand in this area and how cheap prescription is being evaluated. Should we or shouldn't we be re-directed? Does the measure have an effect? I'd like to know about that. Mr Somers has already mentioned it, quid with the number of interruptions and the deficits? We have been given figures on this and there was Mrs Moors' research, who talked about 200 medicines. In your text, you rightly refer to a platform to be created and to an information campaign to make the information as widely available as possible. My colleague Mr Somers probably shares my concern that the problem needs to be addressed. Two hundred medicines a month, that seems to me very much. What did you agree with industry in this pact to reduce the number of interruptions so that the number of 200 medicines can be reduced to a minimum? Furthermore, I am learning from the text that you will carry out reforms within the CTG. I would like to know what, what timetable you are planning and when you are going to start doing so. As far as pricing is concerned, in response to the pact, questions were raised about how the pricing of medicines is to be achieved, especially in the fields of research and marketing. I read in your text that you want to set up a working group to get a better idea of this and make it more transparent. That is a good thing. May I ask how you will do that? How will the working group handle this? When do you expect the results? Madam Minister, in the Pact, you clearly state that quality information for the patient is very important to you and that the quality control of medical information must be independent. There would also be savings in pharmaceuticals within the FAGG. We discussed this at a previous committee meeting. I have no problem with the industry playing a role in this. Do we need a regulatory framework to define quality even better? How do you see this evolving in the future? How do you see the quality control approach? Who could be your partners in that? Within which contours should this be done? I have a more general question. Mr Frédéric has just asked a question about The Lancet's research into expensive cancer medicines, which showed that we are still among the more expensive countries in this area. Other countries are far beyond that. Madam Secretary, I will not repeat my question. After all, I had the same question as Mr Frédéric, namely when we can start cooperation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, in order to weigh more heavily. That's all I'm going to say. You are right to point out the budgetary efforts you will make in the coming period up to 2018. I also read in the text that you will have to save EUR 126 million in the coming years. I would have liked to know how you intend to achieve these savings. In the context of possible savings, I simply mention a point that I have also read in the memo of the mutualities. We have had the debate on expensive medicines. Diabetes medicines are such a category of medicines, like cancer medicines, which is becoming very expensive. In this respect, we have the impression that in the coming years, as science progresses in its evolution and therefore new medicines will become even more expensive. Would it not be appropriate to go to systems that we have already introduced in the past in the context of orphan medicinal products, such as price-volume contracts concluded with the RIZIV or more partial budgets, in order to ascertain precisely whether we can still pay for those expensive medicines? In this way it can also be considered whether, in the case of the access that the patient could have, it is not appropriate to take the sector to a bath in order to achieve a shared responsibility. Also in the context of partial budgets and price-volume contracts, this could perhaps be moved more quickly with a view to sharing responsibility. After all, we are in favour of innovation and rapid access. However, account must be taken of the budgetary story, which we do not know where it will end. One final question concerns other pacts. In your policy letter, you announced that, in addition to the pact with the pharmaceutical industry, you are also working on a pact on implants and medical devices. What is the timing of the relevant negotiations? When can we expect this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u11	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said by my previous colleagues about the quality of the work done, particularly in the context of the pact of the future, which is extremely structured, as was your presentation. Ms. Muylle stressed the importance of the patient. The importance of the government's agreement, the respect of industry, and the fulfilment of commitments at all levels are also remarkable. In any case, I can tell you that my group subscribes to the four strands that you mentioned in your presentation. Having said that, I would like to ask you eight questions. The first relates to the tax reduction for the pharmaceutical industry. You've reported 13%. If I understand correctly, this represents an amount of about 35 million. Furthermore, should this percentage be applicable from 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u12	Starting in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u13	You have already answered one of my questions, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u15	For your presentation, you used a number of slides. Would it be possible to receive a copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u16	They are already on the intranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u17	I haven't had the opportunity to visit the site yet. You have just answered my second question. Madam Minister, this is how I get to the patent cliff. In your note, there is a single price decrease of the order of 54.35 per cent for medicines reimbursed in Class B. Have you had the opportunity to make a calculation to establish a parallel between the cost in terms of percentage of this single measure and that which would have resulted from the different future price reductions for generic medicines? In other words, what is the difference in percentages between the old system and the new system applied? My next question concerns hepatitis C. Obviously, we can be pleased with the system of structural reimbursement of these medicines referred to in the pact. But we know that these drugs have a relatively high cost. Do you already have data on the implementation of this possible measure? Within the framework of this pact, a number of consultations will have to take place, probably a specific implementation of new legislation. What progress has been made and what are the prospects for the future implementation of this pact? You also talked about biosimilar medicines. You plan to become more familiar with the use of these biosimilar drugs for physicians and patients. Besides the intention that seems laudable, there is the way. Do you intend, for example, to carry out a specific campaign as part of this approach? Given the importance of the project and the ambitious nature of the pact, at some point you will have to measure whether the objectives set are being achieved. Do you have a number of tools that already allow you to tell when you will perform a health check and with which tools? In terms of ethics, you talked about the control and quality of information that will be further improved. What do you intend to do? What information are you talking about more specifically? To conclude my speech, I will turn to the question I wanted to put in committee concerning preventive treatment for AIDS. I agree with the question put by Mr Frédéric on this subject. Has our country planned to use treatment as a preventive measure, like France?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u18	Madam Secretary, I also give the flowers first and then the pots. There are a number of issues on which we agree and which come almost literally from our party programme, such as generic medicines, your plan on orphan medicinal products, access to innovative medicines and independent research, but I have a number of suggestions to make. So much for the flowers, now the pots. A number of things still need to be clarified and I also have a number of suggestions. In the section deontology there are a number of good things. However, there is nothing about the research & development section. There should be a lot more clarity in that too. It is not clear what we should mean by that. As far as that hatch is concerned, I am very curious to see how you will implement it in practice. I share Mr Frédéric's view that this pact brings industry closer to politics: each decision is communicated by the policy cell, there is a follow-up committee, clinical experts from the pharmaceutical industry are present in the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting, etc. Aren't you afraid that this will open the door to more lobbying? My second point concerns innovation. This is indeed very important, but the question is what we mean by innovative medicines. Do we understand the same thing underneath? An innovative medicine is not just a new medicine, but has added therapeutic value. That is a very important concept. In Germany, a number of good examples can be found of how they deal with this. The added value of a new medicine does not only have to do with the longer life of the patient, but also with the quality of life and so on. There are criteria for this. I find that a very interesting concept. My suggestion is that this is a good criterion for determining which medicines will be allowed access to the market and which medicines will be eligible for reimbursement. Why not cooperate better in this area with the Netherlands and other European countries? The added therapeutic value is now assessed separately in 26 Member States. Can there not be better cooperation in this area? My third remark is about the unmedical needs. You say you want to develop criteria with the aim of stimulating research in these areas. That is indeed a noble intention, but I wonder whether the challenge should not lie before medicines that have a great social, but not always commercial value. As an example, some studies show that aspirin in combination with another medicine, evidence-based, can be a good treatment for colon cancer. The question is whether we should not use it anymore? Does the government intend to do so through independent clinical studies? After all, it is difficult for me to imagine that the industry will be doing a great deal of research into the effect of combining aspirin with an expensive medicine. Madam Minister, I have already told you a few times in this committee: the 5.9 million you are pulling out is a very small start. The KCE was a lot more than that. I know you have to start somewhere. I agree with that. But I'd like to hear that you want to increase the budget quickly. Why not create the possibility to register the positive combinations of existing medicines more easily? Don't you think that's a good suggestion to take? My fourth remark is about auto-regulation. Don't you fear that the market logic will always make it out of the health logic? Given all the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, I do not directly believe in the great success of this auto-regulation. A fifth point concerns the representation of the ethics committees in clinical trials, which I am happy with. In your pact, you write that in addition, it is necessary to examine the extent to which the patient For me, that's a little too noncommittal. According to certain articles in European legislation, patients-citizens should be involved. For me, therefore, it may go a little further than it will be examined. As a result, I come to my sixth point. The FAGG started a steering group in mid-2014 involving a number of stakeholders, including representatives of patients, health insurance funds, Test-Achats and the Flemish Patient Platform. However, after March 2015, that steering group for the implementation of European regulation on clinical studies has ceased to exist. The work would be suspended on the initiative of the cabinet. You'll have to contradict me if that information isn't correct. A number of patient representatives are asking whether this steering group will be restarted. My seventh point concerns advertising of self-care medicines. The Pact contains an entire paragraph that places strings on public advertising, which I like. What happens to the advertising of medicines without a prescription? Should we not even ask questions about advertising medicines? Is advertising of medicines ever in the interests of the patient? What's in the big and real world data? You say privacy is guaranteed. Can you make that more concrete? How can you be so sure? We know that insurance companies and the like are getting data rather quickly that they might not be able to get.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing. It is obvious that the backbone of a public health policy must be the patient. This pact has positive and decisive challenges for the latter, particularly in terms of access to innovation and the cost to it. You talked about 60 million euros. Some said it was the total for 2018. For my part, I would like to make sure that this is a calculation on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u21	That's what I thought. In addition, quality, efficiency and safety are essential criteria. As far as cost is concerned, I think it is wise to recall the European benchmarks. The Belgian situation is not the most extraordinary. The patient pays from his pocket 40% of the price of the medicine, the rest being covered by the health care insurance. When compared with the Netherlands, the cost to the patient is 21%. That's pretty enlightening. It also seems to me important to focus on the pharmaceutical sector, both in terms of employment and in terms of Belgium's major role in research and development. Our country occupies the pole position in this area. It is therefore important to maintain our rank. In this respect, I have been in favour of a stable and multi-annual budgetary framework for some time. There is a need for a vision on innovation. Research and development in the pharmaceutical sector requires considerable investment, financial risks and long periods of time, as new medicines usually take more than ten years of intensive research. Beyond the budgetary framework, I shall just say a moment about the cumbersome procedures. It is not always possible to relieve them, but when it is possible to do so, care must be taken not to reduce the safety or quality of medicines. Particular attention must be paid to this. Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions. First of all, I would like to have some clarification on the agenda of this pact, since it contains a whole series of measures. I guess you won't be able to move forward in the same way, at the timing level, on all the measurements. How will you set your priorities? I really urge you, as well as the majority, to ensure that this pact is respected at least for this Parliament, because you and the government as a whole are committed for the duration of this Parliament. Why do I ask you? I will take only two examples. First, when you put the government in place, you guaranteed the health care sector a 1.5% growth standard. However, for 2016, the actual growth rate will be 0.7%. Secondly, for the tax shift, an element having a role on this pact, there is today depending on the expressions – the government has joined in – a shortfall of 6 to 8 billion euros to assume the financing of the tax shift by 2019. I therefore urge you to respect and guarantee the content of this pact on the various aspects. It would be a pity to have it in place without being able to guarantee it, including on the financial side. I was telling you, a moment ago, about the two-month delay. In the text, you say that patients will be able to dispose of new medicines at least two months earlier. In this respect, the lead times are consistently significantly higher in Belgium than elsewhere. Personally, I believe that our reference to wait times should be a European reference. What are you committing to? Do you agree that once the CRM has passed, patients wait two months less than they currently do? It often takes three to four months between the initial MRC rebate proposal and the actual reimbursement to the patient. Once the CRM has agreed to the refund, I count one to two months for the patient to be reimbursed. If that's not it, what exactly are you talking about? I recall that for these patients, these are sometimes important life issues. If this concerns a reduction of the time after the passage to CRM, I would like to know what you intend to do with the delay before the passage to CRM. This is also not negligible and, at the very least, it is important that we also be able to work upstream. Minister, could you give us a few explanations? It needs to be clear to both the patient and the pharmaceutical sector. You mention in the pact a clear legal framework for biobanks, also stimulating the development and production by the industry of medicines for advanced therapies, including those with orphan indications. I have asked you a number of questions on this subject. You told me that the representatives of the academic hospital world, the representatives of the biotechnology sector were consulted. I have tabled a text on this matter. Minister, where are we today? Will it be possible to move quickly in legal and legislative terms? Again, the stakes are particularly important. I take this opportunity to talk about orphan drugs. You are talking about consultation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. That is good, but the logic is that we should not only work with the Netherlands and Luxembourg on orphan medicinal products, but at European level or at least with several major European countries. You know that the strength of the number plays. At the Belgian level, orphan medicinal products concern small numbers of patients, sometimes only a few patients. The increase is not very great by adding only the Netherlands and Luxembourg, especially for very orphan diseases. Already in 2014, when you set up the government, you mentioned in your general policy note that you would quickly make contacts at European level. What contacts have you already made? If there is to be real progress on the issues related to orphan medicinal products and if we are to be able to respond effectively to the expectations of patients who need these medicines, we must press for faster progress on a European scale in order to bring together a higher number of patients with orphan diseases. I would also like to know the consequences of your pact on two more specific sectors. First, you know that in personalized medicine, the genetic component is significant and represents significant costs. Personalized medicine, however, involves the articulation of the genetic and pharmaceutical components. Thus, efficiency will be as important as possible. So, do you have an additional envelope for the genetic component of personalized medicine? You know it's a growing issue. We must not let ourselves be overtaken by therapeutic innovations. Secondly, does this pact incorporate therapeutic vaccines, including budgetary ones? I am mainly concerned with oncological therapeutic vaccines, because we are not involved in viral-type health issues within the competence of the Communities and Regions, but on the contrary, with targeted therapy in the fight against cancer? This represents high costs. Does the budget framework provide for the development and arrival of therapeutic vaccines? As far as hepatitis C is concerned, perhaps you will be tired of hearing me speak about it again. Recently, I asked you about a study that profiles hepatitis C eradication in fifteen years, by 2030, provided you have a very strong strategy in this area, which you know the therapeutic effect is not only on the patient, because it can prevent the occurrence and transmission of hepatitis C to other patients. Our discussion was a little tense, because you were not aware of this study and that it was being questioned. You said last September that you had to wait for a study of the KCE. And you said to me: "It should not be forgotten that many patients with hepatitis C virus do not have any progressive disease, neither today nor in 2030!" I would like to recall that beyond the importance of treatment for these patients, there is the issue of the transmission of hepatitis C virus. It is an extremely important public health issue. I insist that decisions on this matter should not be postponed too far. It is not as if we have few studies in this area or if the studies carried out were making positive and negative criticisms – for example by criticizing their relevance. This is in no way the case, since we have an important and extremely extensive international literature. It would therefore be desirable, Madam Minister, for concrete action to be taken rather than for additional studies to be requested, knowing that patients are waiting for decisions. Finally, I would like to ask you two questions about patients. The first relates to patient associations. You have laid down restrictive rules on the support of the pharmaceutical sector for them. I would like to hear from you about this. You have, very recently, made relatively wide-ranging statements on the subject. You know that patient associations do not receive significant funding. Yet, their role is increasingly inescapable. You have associated them with the discussions, which is a good thing. The whole thing is to know to what extent you are going to restrict the support of the pharmaceutical sector to patient associations. Will this restriction be limited to necessary transparency? In other words, will there be any information to be given or do you intend, as you have said recently in the press, to make further arrangements? My second question relates to the information given to patients. I believe that this already exists partly at European level, there is a desire to have a whole range of information on studies made available to patients via a website. I do not know if you have discussed this issue with the industry and patient associations during the discussions on the pact, but there is also the part of patient information related to the side effects of drugs and improved compliance. You will tell me that the latter, as well as the risks associated with side effects, is the responsibility of the doctor and pharmacist. Of course, their role is to inform, but in my view this information is not sufficient in a number of cases. In this respect, I would like to highlight the challenges of teratogenic medicines, especially since other European countries have made progress in this area. These include Valproate and its derivatives. The problem is that these treatments are chronic and can be given to young women who start a pregnancy well after being informed of the risks by the doctor and pharmacist. In these cases, information that has been given in terms of risks in the event of pregnancy is sometimes lost. In France, the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products has decided that a warning should be placed on the product box. Indeed, patients to whom chronic treatments are provided do not, of course, read the package leaflet – and they are understood. There is therefore a lack of a visual catch that could attract the attention of a young woman who is planning a pregnancy – the ideal being that she can find out before this stage. I take the example of Valproate, but it may concern other molecules. The French Agency has chosen to warn that Dépakine represents a risk in this area. It is therefore important to consult the doctor again. This could complement existing provisions to avoid the side effects of chronic teratogenic medicines. It is true that I had tabled a text on the subject. I had already made the suggestion to the minister. I had already told you about this before, but now that the decision has been taken in France, it is important to put this issue back on the agenda and to be able to think about it with the pharmaceutical sector. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u22	The advantage of being one of the latter is that many questions have already been answered. I've also come in and out a bit. In order to limit the risk of repeating what has already been mentioned in the presentation, I am deliberately keeping it short. What is our overall view of the plan? It is very good that the patient is at the heart of the plan and that the invoice is reduced. These are special points for us, which we have negotiated together. A stable framework for an important branch of industry is also important. We have an important position in this area and we must cherish it. Mr Muylle has already pushed for other pacts, I think, and has referred to a pact around, for example, the implants. I do not know whether that question has already been asked or not, but what other pacts are under way? With which actors? Are those calls running yet? When can we expect the outcome of this? One point to make is that we can demand efforts from different actors. It is a good thing that this is laid down in a pact, so that everyone knows what to expect and does not have to fear to be endorsed again without being able to prepare for it. In addition, it remains important to put our hands into our own bosom and to investigate what savings we can achieve by eliminating waste. There's a waste in health care. We have recently quoted a number of concrete examples of this. They point to a deeper problem in our health care, specifically with regard to medicines, with the list of recoverables. I understand that a cell at the CTG will consider whether a sleeve can be fitted to that and how we can reform the list. Has the cell been concretely constructed yet? What exactly will she do? What's the timeline? There is another problem with the effective prescription. You decide on a patent cliff, but you must be linked to it immediately, so that when the patent expires, the prescription behaviour and use of the medicines in question will not be affected. We have quoted the concrete example of the antacids. I understand there's a cell called Effective Care in the docks. Does it restrict itself to the medicines, or does it go on? What exactly will be the impact of that? Has it been put together yet? What exactly are the objectives? I have one more question that has been taken up throughout the debate, namely on the reimbursement of HIV inhibitors. I do not know whether the question has already been addressed by my predecessors. I'll paraphrase them very briefly. In the event of exposure outside the workplace or for which the insurance did not pay, there was a Royal Decree scheme with the reference centres until 2013. However, no royal decrees have been published on this issue since 2013. Isn't it supposed to work with a royal decision every year? What about the funding that was missing from 2013 to 2016, because there was no royal decision? What structural funding or solution is being developed for this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u23	I will add a few elements trying not to repeat what has already been said. The achievement of a multi-year budget, a plan, deadlines and objectives is obviously an interesting way of working. However, it is true that a plan, a charter, such agreements require a good balance in the balance of power between patients, who are the first to be targeted by this, the public authorities and the sector. Care must be taken to ensure that the balance moves towards a public health project for the benefit of patients. I would have wanted to ask you a more precise question. Several questions have already been asked about the important part of innovation, biotechnology, biosimilar medicines, immunotherapy, etc. We are moving towards more and more personalized treatments, but at the same time, all these new therapies must be accessible to all patients who need them. Financing must therefore be sufficient while the development of these treatments is now a very expensive investment. This inescapable transition, in my view, from the same treatment for everyone to more and more personalized treatments, will require the organization, on a path of several years, of the reorientation of treatments. I do not see it well if it is part of the discussions. How will this transition be organized for the benefit of the patient, while at the same time bearing the costs? With regard to banks of diaper cells, tissues, etc., is the intention to allow such banks to exist elsewhere than in university hospitals? If that is the case, I would find it particularly risky. When we passed the law on these provisions, parliamentarians were concerned to keep a "sacred" side to the living cells that were made available and that they could not be used as marketable material. We had the opportunity to visit a company that manufactures biosimilar drugs. In the explanations given to us, the fact that a drug could become the equivalent of a generic drug when falling into living or biosimilar material is almost impossible, since it is precisely living material and the production and development of the product must be accurately monitored. This will therefore also have an impact on price developments. This cannot be expected to happen in the same way as for chemical drugs that become generic, non-patent drugs. Here too, these are elements to be taken into account in the long term. How are this analysis and anticipation organized through the pact? In this pact, how is there a concern for small pharmaceutical companies working in our territory that have targeted fields of activity? There have been parliamentary questions on this subject in committee. There is one company that manufactures drugs for people who suffer from alcoholism, and another for painkillers. Is there a focus on these small businesses? Is one thinking only of the future of the sector in innovations or is there a concern for the diversity of the players producing medicines? Finally, what about the ethics and independence of experts? I believe more in the interaction of experts from different backgrounds to ensure that decisions and final work will have the independence that comes from the interactive cross-section. This is really a big concern for me because we are not equal around the table in terms of knowledge and data control. The patient must also be helped in the role he or she can play. Since it is also pharmaceutical companies that finance health care studies in universities, there are ongoing cross-influences that are inevitable and that must be taken into account in the organization of ethics that needs to develop. You have set aside a small budget for public research, alongside research and innovation budgets. When I say ‘small', it is in relation to the budgets that pharmaceutical companies have. This will therefore require that there be a specificity in the use of this budget because it could not compete with another. Is this budget more precisely identified? How can one position and weigh in research with this significant but smaller envelope than that available to economic actors? Finally, more specific questions have been asked about what is known as pre-exposure prophylaxis for people who are not yet living with AIDS but are at risk, even if they have an HIV-positive partner. In December, France announced its intention to make free treatment available to people at risk. This has been the case for years in the United States and Canada, but it is expensive. It may be interesting to treat this reduced and targeted audience preventively, in order to combat the development and transmission of AIDS. This will not prevent – this is one of the issues – from continuing to use the condom because it protects from many other things than AIDS. Like my colleagues, I would have liked to know if there were plans to arrange reimbursements for target groups. If so, which ones? Could you also tell me whether the coordinator, Mr. or Mrs. AIDS at national level, has already been appointed? Minister, I suggest that you take a short break and then take the floor to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u24	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, thank you for finding some positive points. Regarding prices, and this also answers Mrs Fonck's question, in 2015, the savings were €23 million for the patient. They will be 37 million in 2016, 51 million in 2017 and 60 million in 2018. From 2018 onwards, they will be structurally 60 million per year, except of course in case of additional measures. This represents a total of 172 million euros between 2015 and 2018. It's an important amount for patients. As for the safety margin, it will represent a reduction of 3.2 million for patients and a savings of 0.9 million for us. You asked how the mutualities were informed. We informed them twice in the cabinet when the pact was being drawn up. We also held several meetings later, during the work on the protocol on orphan drugs. With regard to the AFMPS, we are working on a legal framework for self-regulation. Action should be taken. It's a little similar to what was done on Mdeon. Mr. Frédéric, Ms. Van Camp, Mr. Senesael and Mr. Thiéry asked about the reimbursement of HIV drugs in case of risk of accidental infection and the reimbursement of preventive treatment for AIDS. The Royal Decree on the reimbursement of prophylactic treatment in the case of non-professional exposure was published on 29 December 2015. The Royal Decree provides for structural funding of the prophylactic treatments provided by the HIV/AIDS reference centres, approved by the RIZIV. This will take place retroactively from 1 January 2013. Mrs Van Camp, you explicitly asked for this. Well, this is a retroactive measure. The budget is available at the RIZIV to also pay those invoices from 1 January 2013. The agreements also include billing modalities for the centres for the following years. As you can see, Mr. Frédéric, we are also paying for work that has not been done before!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u25	You were in the government then!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u26	At the time, I was minister responsible for Asylum and Migration. The files to be dealt with in this framework were not easy either! Indeed, the scheme concerns retrospective financing for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The draft decision also provides that the agreements concluded with the HIV reference centres are now of indefinite duration. This is the answer, Mrs Van Camp, to your question as to whether it will be necessary to make a new agreement every year. Once the decision enters into force, it will also provide an answer to an action of the HIV plan, in particular for the non-occupational post-exposure prophylaxis, to make that treatment more accessible in Belgium. Access to non-occupational PEP has improved with the approval of two additional AIDS reference centres, in Bruges and Mont-Godinne, effective August 1, 2015, and by the fact that both centres can offer prophylactic treatments. The draft decree does not set a maximum envelope. With regard to prophylactic treatment of AIDS, it would be unthinkable to limit access to care for patients who have been exposed to HIV. The consequences in case of non-treatment can be serious and ultimately lead to a much higher expense for the management of contaminated patients. From a public health perspective, it is therefore unthinkable to return a patient who has recently been exposed to the virus without reimbursable treatment. However, to cover the sector, an available budget of EUR 1.1 million has been set aside. For the sake of completeness, let me add that the measure was also discussed on 17 November 2015 with the monitoring committee of the national HIV plan, including the representation of the Positive Council. I'm coming to the full refund of Truvada. Truvada is one of the therapeutic options for treating a human immunodeficiency virus infection. Many other therapeutic regimens exist, and therefore other medicines, which are fully reimbursed in Belgium. The adjustment of the repayment conditions to recent international recommendations is currently being evaluated. Indeed, in France, Truvada has just been authorised and reimbursed as part of a temporary recommendation for use with a future evaluation scheduled. Currently, the scientific literature indicates that there is still a risk of contamination of about 10%, even if Truvada is used for prophylactic reasons. In addition, the European Medicines Agency has not yet authorised the indication "HIV prevention" in Truvada. A clinical study is currently being conducted at the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp. Based on the findings of this study, which will be finalized in 2017, my services will reassess the situation as soon as possible. Mr Frédéric asked me a question about the possibility of voting in the CRM. Today, it can be said that there is a balance in that there are eight representatives of the insurance committees, seven representatives of the universities and one president. The President was also given the opportunity to vote. The report is now 50/50. The 1997 study is interesting. We've checked the prices of the drugs in it. Unfortunately, a large number of errors have been noted, which is regrettable. Madam President, I can communicate to the members of the committee the prices mentioned in the 1997 study and the prices actually applied in our country. This list will lead you to change the conclusions you have drawn. It is true that we do not have the lowest prices for all medicines, but this is the case for some of them. For the rest, work still needs to be done and that is what we are doing. We're lowering the price of drugs. In any case, the 1997 study deserves verification. Mrs Muylle, you asked a question about the proceeds of the regulation on prescribing the cheapest medicine. Indeed, we had promised to give the figures in this respect and to evaluate that measure. Well, a call has been launched. We have also directed a letter, through the RIZIV, to many doctors and dentists and everyone has responded well. I would also like to thank them for this, because it was a non-binding measure, a friendly call to try to bring down the prices for patients. The doctors and dentists responded positively, but for the patients some very interesting things were developed. For example, the socialist mutualities Mr Frédéric will be pleased to hear it, and develop an app that shows which medicine is cheapest. What are the lowest prices? I said that socialist mutualities had developed an application for patients to see which drug was the cheapest. We appreciated this initiative, which made it possible for us to achieve a great success. Thank you, Mr. Frédéric! This means, for 2015, only on the basis of these measures, savings of 13 million for patients and 29.8 million for the government. You may recall the discussion in committee at the time, when I said that the target would be around 30 million. That was true of both of them, of course. The objective was exceeded and thus more than achieved, again thanks to the way in which the measure was received in the field by the prescribers as well as by the patients, who have immediately seen the benefit of the measure, as well as by the mutualities, who are working to reduce the price of medicines. This is an example of a measure which was first made somewhat laughing. In fact, there was already a cheap prescription and suddenly I would go on to prescribe the 'cheap'. In French, that was easy. "Les moins chers" was easier, at least as far as articulation is concerned. This measure, which was first attacked as a strange measure, after which one can laugh with it, has produced a lot, both for the patient and for the government. Mrs Muylle, on the issue of unavailability, I would point out that we will make a number of changes. Public contracts in hospitals also make it possible for medicinal products which are intended for the hospital environment and which do not win the tender to disappear from the formularium for more than a year. In order to avoid the deletion of them for reimbursement, as is the case now, if they are not prescribed for more than one year, an exception shall be provided for the automatic deletion after one year of unavailability. That period shall be extended to five years so that those medicinal products can re-enter the next tender and be available again without having to go through all the legal procedures again. However, penalties shall be imposed in case of non-reporting of temporary unavailability or in case of non-reporting of re-availability after a temporary unavailability. An interactive IT system will be launched in 2016 with a real-time view of the unavailability of the medicines. Mrs Van Camp also had questions about this. A number of measures still need to be taken at European level to counter a number of unavailability mechanisms. Nevertheless, we are doing all this exercise to counter this. Quality control is also included in the Pact in the third chapter on deontology: "In consultation with the pharmaceutical sector, a method will be developed to further optimise the quality control of the information provided. There was also a question about the results of the reduction for the patient. This is done via a growth path and structuralally starting from 2018. You also asked whether there would be a trend towards price-volume contracts for orphan medicinal products. Actually, it already exists. Since November 2014 some 30 contracts have already been concluded. That continues and runs fairly smoothly. For the future, we want more than price-volume contracts. We want to go to pay for performance. This means that the result and quality will be more decisive than the price and volume. Some of you had a question about the pilot projects at Benelux level. We hope to communicate on this for the first time during the new Dutch Presidency. In the meantime, a lot of work has already been done. Mrs Fonck, we are not ready to accept new countries immediately because we will have to conclude a protocol with each country and every system. First, we want to achieve good results. The patient's safety is most important to us. That is what our three countries have agreed on. It's a unique protocol in Europe. Afterwards, we can discuss possible proposals from other countries. We give the information to countries that ask it, but we are not happy to develop a protocol with other countries. It would make things even more complicated. We are not sure that the same safety margins are being observed everywhere. Mrs Muylle had a question about the Working Party on price transparency. That is also a competence of the Minister of Economy. We have informed ourselves of this. Preparatory work is under way. The working party hasn't come together yet. You are perhaps well placed to rattle the door there to speed things up. You can do it with my regards. How can we force companies to publish negative results from clinical trials? A European directive regulates the publication of those negative study results. We will implement the transposition into a Belgian law, probably in 2017. Sanctions are also provided for if the law is not complied with. The transposition of that European directive will take place one year before the deadline that Europe gives the Member States. Then there were questions from Mrs Somers. You asked about personalized medicine. There is a pilot project in university hospitals for the recruitment of patients in clinical studies through a registration system and a tracking tool. If there is to be an innovative medicine, it is important to give patients access as soon as possible. It is important to maintain our competitive position first in the field of clinical studies. Mr Thiéry, as far as your first question is concerned, I have already answered that the 13% is in the budget table in 2017 and concerns 35 million. The slides are already on the internet. For Patent Cliff, in Class B, this may result in a price decrease of about 54%. If we used to do the same with respect to the amount (B2, B4 and B6) now, the effect is immediate. Instead of taking the stairs, we take the Cliff, that's what brings much more oxygen to our system. This process will allow for the injection of money and will allow us to realize savings as well as for the patient. We will be able to re-inject them to repay innovative medicines and techniques. Mrs Somers, you asked me how I would modernise the FAGG. In accordance with the law on various provisions, we will reduce the annual fee of companies. We will try to create a multi-annual budget based on the principle of zero-based budgeting. This means that instead of constantly moving the amounts to the next year, we will review a number of processes completely. For the 2017 budget, 25% of the processes will be financed on the basis of real cost and not on the basis of historically determined costs. We will thus try to identify efficiency gains and optimise all processes. If we can make the Agency work like this, it could become an example for dealing with public finances. This means that every euro will be called into question again with a view to future expenditure. I have already replied to the comments on unavailability. Mr Thiéry, as far as the reimbursement system for hepatitis C medicines is concerned, we are almost in the final stage. Technicians are being consulted at this time. The next law with various provisions will include this issue, if all goes well. This pact also includes a roadmap, een draaiboek. Every quarter, technical meetings are held. At the end of each semester, I see the progress of the process. Similarly, ad hoc working groups have been established. This was the case more intensively for biosimilars. We are going to achieve a result. As stated in the roadmap, results must also be measured systematically - not just for the budget. As far as the quality of information is concerned, we will develop a framework containing the representatives and the results of the clinical trials and simplify the documents, zoals of bijsluiters, as Mrs Fonck said. Mrs Muylle, in consultation with the pharmaceutical sector, a method will be developed to further optimise the quality control of the information provided. Then there was your question, Mr. Thiéry, about the refund of HIV. That was the same question that your colleagues asked. Mrs. Dedry, you made some suggestions about deontology. You wanted more clarity about the research and development. To this end, a central portal will be created where all clinical studies will be found. All the agreements we make are precisely aimed at either reducing lobbying work or making it non-existent. In the cabinet, the deontology is that we do not allow our employees to come directly or indirectly into contact with representatives or stakeholders of certain firm debt securities or medications. We are trying to be objective in our approach. What we ask someone else to do, we do it ourselves. The added therapeutic value is indeed very important if it is not the most important for the patient. In the CTG it is therefore considered as one of the most important factors. With all the medication that's still in the pipeline, that's fine, too. Can studies on medicinal products of high societal value, but for which there is little incentive in industry to include them in clinical studies, be carried out by the government? This can be done within the budget available for this purpose, and it is now 5,9 million euros and 10 million euros by 2018. A call has already been made through the Knowledge Centre, and we had also said that this would be the case. When proposals for studies come in, it will be carefully examined which are relevant. That call took place a few weeks ago. It is now on the ground to make proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u28	We also went over the wall, actually, across the Channel. So we are working with the United Kingdom. They have built up a lot of expertise in this area. They will share with us what they have already gained from knowledge. I recruited someone specifically in the cabinet, in the pharmaceutical cell. That person will provide guidance and follow-up. Registrations shall be made at European level, at the EEA. As far as auto-regulation is concerned, there will be a legal framework that everyone...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u30	I couldn't read "Mdeon" anymore. (...) : What is Mdeon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u31	That's a platform on which all players have to report which conferences they organize...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u32	..and who the invited speakers are. So it is not true that they should not go there, but it must be known.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u33	So that is self-control, from the sector, but there is also a legal framework around it. That's a little Belgian Juridism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u34	As far as the involvement of patients in the ethics committees is concerned, they are now on the medical committees. That is a measure that we have already taken. Furthermore, the question is to what extent they can also be involved in the ethics committees. Apparently, you have wrong information about the implementation steering committee. It's running very well. There's a lot of work going on around here. The follow-up is also one of the tasks of the new employee. We know it's better than ever. That employee has a lot of work to do with that. According to your information, I don't know where you have it. That steering committee wouldn't have met in a year, but that's not true. Now I come to the commercial. Advertising can only be used for medications that are available without a prescription. As an example, I'm gonna call this Hop Ibutop. For prescription medication, the FAGG should issue a visa for publication in the specialised medical press, as it is called. The rules governing the granting of visas by the FAGG are strict. We discussed this at length in this committee a few years ago, Madam President. It is necessary that the information be given objectively, without leading to utopian results in the patient. The FAGG has played its role in obtaining a visa. Two things are always important to the patient: safety and privacy. With regard to privacy, a working group has been set up, together with the competent Secretary of State, Mr Tommelein. Mrs Fonck, you have asked for a European benchmark on the amount the Belgian patient spends on his medical care. According to the latest OECD figures, 3% of a patient's budget goes to medical care, of which 32% would be for medication. That's a third. So it is important that we also work on that point. I just don't understand how you got the figure of 40 %, if you know that medication in category A is fully refunded and in category B it is about 15 to 25 % with a ceiling. So you'll probably include the over-the-counter medication or the medication that's not prescribed, otherwise I can't explain how you got it. With regard to how to reduce the cumbersomeness of the procedures, I can give you a statement of the situation. I can give you an update. A number of planned legislative changes will be dealt with in this committee in the coming months. This is indeed about automatic reimbursement for paediatric indications for indications that have already been repaid for adult patients. This extension is requested and the extension of the refund for children will not be applied for in Belgium as a result of a reduction in prices which is disproportionate to the additional expenditure incurred by the children as a result of the reimbursement. We'll fix that, too. A legal basis is created to ensure that the reimbursement takes effect on the day following the publication of the Ministerial Decision on the website of the RIZIV. That will indeed mean a difference of two months for the patient, because it takes 180 days plus now about 30 days for the opinion of the Budget, then the opinion of the Council of State and then another one to two months. So we get a sensitive discount there. Meanwhile, of course, we are also working hard on IT support, to put this into practice as soon as possible. The website www.betransparent.be is responsible for publicising the transfer of values between the pharmaceutical industry and healthcare providers or organisations, and this is legally framed. Not today, but earlier it was mentioned that we will take measures to strengthen controls on the misuse of veterinary antibiotics, which is also important for food safety and for public health. The principle of auto-checking will be applied to the FAGG. There will also be amendments to the law of 19 December on biobanks, with an increase in the traceability of human body material that has undergone a transformation in the framework of scientific research without human application, with a number of technical adaptations. The confidentiality of Article 81 Contracts for medicinal products is enshrined in the law. A structural system, which provides 100% budget security for the reimbursement of medicinal products for the treatment of hepatitis C, will enter into force on 1 January 2017. At the same time, the population eligible for reimbursement will be extended to patients with fibrosis stage 2 for whom there is a high medical emergency. A number of Members have asked what further action I will take with regard to the reimbursement of medicines. Mrs Muylle, including the CTG, the administrative procedures will be maximized so that the medicines can be made available to the patient more quickly. There is also the possibility of extending the duration of Article 81 Contracts from three to five years because sometimes more time is needed when it comes to very small patient groups; there is the possibility of introducing an anonymous voting system and voting rights for the President of the Commission Meeting Medicinal Products; there is the addition of the EPAR, the EEA Scientific Evaluation Report, which is responsible for the registration of medicinal products, to the CTG evaluation report, and there is the development of a methodology for reimbursement of additional indications that stimulate innovation. There is also a royal decision in the making for the implementation of the new law on clinical trials to ensure the safety of patients. Here too, we will ensure that we can maintain our lead in clinical studies. Then there are non-legislative measures. In the course of 2016, applications for reimbursement of orphan medicinal products will be optimised through the Colleges of Orphans, on the one hand, by the possible limitation to the first application for reimbursement and an initial application for renewal and, on the other hand, by the possibility to request it electronically via eHealth, directly from the Central Sickness Fund. This will not only speed up the application process, but also increase patient accessibility. A mechanism is also being sought to maintain a reduced levy on orphan medicinal products for more than 10 years. Mrs Fonck, you wanted to know whether personalized medicine also applied to oncological therapeutic vaccines. There, we are more in the immunological domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u35	I didn't mention that. I asked about personalized medicine. I heard your explanations. But I didn't mix it with therapeutic vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u36	For the genetic component, we have an envelope of about 7 million outside the pact. We will also be working on a quality system and, to do so, consult the Reimbursement Commission for Medicines and the Medical Technical Council. We will also examine how we can organise a collaboration between the RIZIV and the Scientific Institute for Public Health. In this regard, we will seek synergies with the INAMI and the Scientific Institute of Public Health. For patients who had hepatitis C prior to 1986, a study is under way in KCE. It is obvious that we will wait for the results of this study, which will give us directions to identify these patients. This identification is far from simple, especially as some patients escape radar. Once these patients have been found, we will see what needs to be done. The patient organisations (the League of Users of Health Services and the Vlaams Patientenplatform) have received an annual amount of €500,000 to enable them to set up branches to organise discussions with representatives of all health care sectors. It is also important that all donations to patient organisations are made public. There will be a law for this, with a view to transparency. We want to bring together all the information. In the case of orphan medicines, a royal decree is being prepared. We have been working together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Of course, these diseases are quite rare. It is expected that the number of patients concerned will be doubled or even tripled. With the combined efforts of our three countries, we will be in a stronger position. We'll see later. I remain cautious because I prefer to have results first before responding to requests from other countries to join us. With regard to teratogenic medicines, you asked a question about the results of the survey conducted by the French Agency for Drugs and Health Products. The European re-evaluation of the use during pregnancy of medicinal products containing valproic acid or derivatives leads to several legally binding risk minimization measures. These mandatory measures have, of course, been introduced in Belgium. These include new recommendations for starting treatment in young girls or of childbearing age, adaptation of the package leaflet for medicinal products containing valproic acid, summary of product characteristics and provision of educational material for both patients and health professionals. These new measures have been communicated through various information channels, such as the sending of direct communication to health professionals, a publication on the website of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, a publication in the folia pharmacotherapeutica of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (CBIP). As a result of the European risk minimisation assessment and to further characterize the prescription schemes for Valproate, it was also required that holders of marketing authorisations for medicinal products containing Valproate and related substances carry out a study of the use of the medicinal product. The design of the study should aim at assessing and quantifying the effectiveness of risk minimization measures and should include analysis and evaluation before and after implementation. The study must be carried out in several Member States. The protocol for this study is being evaluated and the final results are expected 48 months after approval of this protocol. As regards the logo in France, the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee of the European Medicines Agency also mentioned that there is, to date, no officially recognised European logo for this risk and that the logos were often misinterpreted by patients. However, a logo prohibiting use during pregnancy has been affixed to the educational material intended for patients. It also includes an acknowledgment form for receipt of risk information that must be signed by the patient and her doctor and that must be kept in the patient's medical record. As I have already said, a great deal has been done about information, but of course we must continue to monitor this important risk, particularly in terms of the results of the European study. Mrs Van Camp, you say that it is good to work with a multi-annual pact, you ask what other pacts are in the pipeline and what budgetary impact this has. Well, among other things, last summer we started discussions on a pact with insurance institutions and mutualities. As you know, in the meantime, there has been a reduction in administrative costs. Now, together with the mutualities, we are working on a better definition of the future role of insurance institutions. We believe that an insurance institution will play a different role in the future. The importance of the points of contact and the administrative function will decrease as more transactions will be carried out by electronic means. Insurance institutions will rather play a consultative, coaching and preventive role. We have also held a first meeting with the representatives of the pharmacists. The way in which we work is always the same, in the sense that we hand over a draft note. For the pharmacists it was a note with a dozen chapters. They may, of course, feedback, propose additions, formulate their comments, etc. In the field of medical devices we also work together with the working group MedTech. That will also be a very important part. The medical devices sector is also becoming an important actor in our healthcare system. Think of all kinds of prostheses, implants, pumps, meters and 3D. In this sector too, therefore, we are trying to reach a multi-annual pact. We are also trying to conclude a multi-annual pact with nurses. Nurses will always be needed, even in the future, especially in view of the ageing population. As far as eHealth is concerned, the multi-annual trajectory has already been drawn up until 2018. For chronic care, a plan for integrated chronic care has already been discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. This must be done through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, because we must also consult with the Communities in this area. Then I come to the large yard of hospital funding: how will we evolve into a new hospital landscape? We are still on schedule on this. In 2016, work will focus on the new funding mechanisms for the future and on pilot projects already launched on shorter delivery time, home care and aftercare, and treatments that can be done at home rather than in a hospital. Those are the next pilot projects. You are also talking about the possible savings that can still be made by detecting waste. The CTG's working on that, too. Each year, the RIZIV shall make the MORSE report....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is an important report, in which we look for possible waste or misuse. As far as the questions on HIV are concerned, I have answered you: retrograde, over several years and so on. Your other questions have already been addressed. Mrs Gerkens, biobanks exist in specialised centres but also in non-university centres. For us, both are important. Non-university centres, which have recognized expertise everywhere, cannot be excluded. We need to see how we can be effective. For biosimilar medicines, you said the therapeutic effect was identical. But the molecule is "similar", which means that it is not exactly the same. When a biosimilar is found and the drug already exists, there is still a 7.5% decrease in the price. For the original molecules, the price reduction is 17% when they reach 12 years of age and 2.4% when they reach 15 years of age. If a biosimilar subsequently arrives, the price will fall by 7.5%. Prices are therefore decreasing depending on the age of the molecules. For the clinical trials we organized, you said it was a small budget. We will start with EUR 5.9 million but we will move very quickly up to EUR 10 million. It is still an important budget, especially since this has never been done! It is important to say that collaboration exists with other countries. We are not going to invest money for a job that has already been done, as in England. We have no euro to waste. We will try to reduce the amount to invest to get maximum returns. Collaboration is very close with other countries to this end. A question was asked about the HIV coordinator. There is a working group at the level of the monitoring committee. This includes AIDS reference centres, patient organisations, all information organisations, such as Sensoa, and also the Scientific Institute for Public Health. This means that there is going to have to be a way of coordinating things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u37	Mrs. Dedry forgot to ask one of her questions. In order for this question to remain in this committee, I shall give him the floor. The last word will always go to parliamentarians, of course. It will still be possible to make a short reply. Mrs Fonck and Mrs Dedry wanted to add something to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u38	Minister, we are not going to relaunch the debate now. We will have a regular opportunity to come back to the subject. I would just like to get a little clarification; earlier I avoided interrupting you, which was easier and pleasant for you. You're talking about a budget of 7 million at the genetic level, for everything about personalized medicine. You mentioned the ISP. Does this mean that you consider that genetic analyses, in the personalized medicine component, will be carried out via the ISSP? Or do we agree that genetic laboratories have considerable expertise? Will some of them take on the "personalised medicine" component and the genetic analyses that naturally go together? We can come back to that at another time. You can also send me the answer in a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u39	I'll send you the information. A collaborator who's not here managed this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I have a question that has already been raised, namely the World Health Organisation study in The Lancet, which you think is wrong. I suggest that I simply turn my question into a written question. However, I suspect you already have the answer. I can take it with me. She's about the expensive cancer medication. Do you have the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u41	I have the answer with me. Of course, she still needs to be translated. After all, when a question is converted into a written question, it has to be translated. The answer lasts two minutes. I'll give you the answer now. A Consomut working group is being set up, for which there was a clear interest among the parties involved. The working group is coordinated by the Cancer Centre and consists of representatives of the Knowledge Centre, the RIZIV, several labs and specialised centres. In the long term, only those centres of expertise capable of carrying out a genetic analysis of tumours should be able to offer certain medicinal products to patients. As soon as there are sufficient generics and indications, the oncology working group and the CTG bureau shall endeavour to transfer those medicines to Chapter 1, which shall be combined with a reduction in prices. The CTG itself does not take initiatives for new therapies, but relies on application files introduced by industry. Competent authorities shall have access to the Euripid database in which prices are available in different European countries. Moreover, each year the company is asked to pass on the prices applicable in six other European countries of the medicinal products which it makes available on the Belgian market and for which it still has the patent. The amounts on the slide don't add up, but they'll be delivered to you. When applying for a refund of a new speciality, the company is asked to indicate the prices already applicable in other countries. This may also be taken into account by the Commission for Medicinal Products. On 6 October, transparent launch was launched. The aim of this public register is to improve transparency in relations between industry, healthcare professionals and institutions. Transparent maps fees between industry or so-called value transfers between industry and healthcare professionals and institutions. The first publication will take place in June 2016 for the transfers made in 2015. The desire for transparency on the prices of medicinal products and the cost structure has long existed. Mrs Muylle asked Minister Peeters about the working group. We hope that it will be discussed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u42	I would like to stress the need for coordination in AIDS policies, given the diversity of actors and levels of power involved. This function must therefore be created. I also think you had some deadlines to propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic313x.u43	We can go very fast. I can tell you what the situation is. Some amounts have already been mentioned. There are "good" prescriptions. As far as the cheapest prescription is concerned, according to the first evaluation by the RIZIV, it amounts to 29.8 million for health insurance and 13 million for the patient. As far as patent cliff is concerned, it concerns 49.4 million for health insurance and 9 million for the patient. This also applies to 2016. These slides have already been forwarded to the committee and will be added. For the safety margin, also important, we see the following figures: from EUR 10.8 to EUR 5, EUR 0.9 million for health insurance and EUR 3.2 million for the patient. As regards the joint negotiations between the Benelux countries, there is a second pilot. We are trying this summer to bring out the first results for the Dutch Presidency with Mr Schippers. In May there is a first informal meeting prior to the June meeting in Amsterdam. I have explained how we are moving towards a modern financing of the pact and how it is not available. I already told you what's in the pipeline. There's a lot in the pipeline. The Pact was only communicated in July 2015, but we are already working on its implementation. Of course, that was also agreed with the pharmaceutical industry. We have committed ourselves not only to making a pact, but also to putting the cabinet's shoulders under its implementation and to chasing our administrations to play the ball briefly in order to achieve results as quickly as possible, for the patients and for us. Thank you all for your attention.
