ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u1	Mr President, I will try to report on my visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories and to cover some of the issues. We may then return to other aspects of this displacement and to the questions you have put to the Committee on matters concerning Israel and the Palestinian territories. I visited Israel and the Palestinian territory from 7 to 10 May. This visit followed a few months of other rather fruitful visits. There was a visit of the three regions to Palestine and Israel as part of a joint trade mission in December last year. Companies, at the initiative of the three regional agencies, were particularly interested in the Israeli component of the mission, with two thirds of them remaining exclusively in Israel, with one third also visiting Palestine, especially for the IT and ICT components. Just before my visit, the Minister-President of the Walloon Region had himself visited Israel and Palestine, mainly in a spirit of collaboration and dialogue to strengthen economic and trade relations. I therefore note that all the federated entities of the country consider it useful to approach our relations, in particular with Israel, through positive and diverse cooperation. I did not wish to do so only with Israel but also with the Palestinian authority. This introduction allows me to give you details about the program. On the Palestinian side, my visit allowed me first to visit Bethlehem, where I visited the Church of the Nativity and where I was able to announce Belgium's intention to contribute, as other countries have done, to the renovation of this important element of the universal cultural heritage. I was able to officially confirm the prize awarded to the stained glass window located in the church of Sainte Catherine, adjacent to that of the Nativity; stained glass window offered in 1926 by Belgium, renovated in 2004 and awarded the Belgian Heritage Award abroad from the Department of Foreign Affairs and the King Baudouin Foundation. I also went to Ramallah to meet the Palestinian Authority. I met my colleague Al-Malki and the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority, Hamallah. After my arrival I had a telephone conversation with President Abbas, who was not in Palestine at the time, but in Cairo for political consultations on the current situation. I also had contacts with the local representatives of agencies of the United Nations and the EU. I also met representatives of Palestinian civil society. On the Israeli side, I met Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Rivlin. I also had a meeting with former Minister Tzipi Livni, a representative of the Knesset and head of the Hatnuah party, and with Ayman Odeh, leader of the United Arab List. I met the Belgian community on both sides. In addition, I have spoken with cooperating Palestinian and Israeli businessmen. During a small lunch debate, I also had the opportunity to discuss the fight against Daesh and the common challenge this terrorist group brings to the Middle East and Europe. I also visited Kerem Shalom, a transit point for goods between Israel and Gaza, and Gaza itself. I have opened a new school within the framework of an extensive joint programme of various donors, of which Belgium is part, which has enabled the renovation of 109 schools in Gaza. Finally, I had a meeting with an Israeli community that lives right next door to Gaza. My various political meetings allowed me to hear from all the interlocutors about the current situation. The main topic of the discussions was, of course, the lack of progress in the peace process. I encouraged the resumption, without delay, of a negotiation process to make progress in the practical implementation of the two-State solution. I stressed our support for the French initiative, which has the merit of recalling the importance of the Middle East peace process and the need to relaunch this process. I have seen a significant difference in views between the Israeli interlocutors who are advocating for direct and unconditional bilateral negotiations and my Palestinian interlocutors who would like to see a more structured international negotiation with a clear horizon. The Quartet report is eagerly awaited at the end of May and should contain recommendations on confidence-building measures that could be swiftly implemented. The European Union is already playing a role in the Quartet through the European Union's Special Representative for the Middle East Peace Process, Mr Gentilini. It was also conducting a structural dialogue with Israel on the improvement of the socio-economic conditions in the Palestinian territories and on the preservation of the two-State solution. We believe, however, that it must play a more important role, not just in its participation in the Quartet, but in enabling it to actively support and participate in the revival of the process, whether through the French initiative, in which its role must be central, or through other initiatives. I have also had the opportunity to recall our opposition to colonization policy and to the measures resulting therefrom, which undermine the very possibility of a two-State solution by undermining trust between the parties. I have addressed, in particular, the issue of the destruction of humanitarian projects financed by international aid. Last April, I condemned unequivocally with my colleague, Alexander De Croo, the unacceptable destruction of a children's recreation area in Zaatara financed by Belgian Cooperation. This demolition of a project financed by Belgium is part of a more general context marked by a very worrying increase in recent months in the destruction of infrastructure in Area C, including many projects or goods financed by the European Union and its Member States. I had the opportunity to address this issue with several of my interlocutors, including Prime Minister Netanyahu. Administrative reasons are put forward by the Israeli government. It is clear that, for Belgium, the destruction of a humanitarian project in an occupied territory cannot, under any circumstances, be justified, except in exceptional cases very precisely defined by international humanitarian law within the framework of the Geneva Convention. A follow-up of my conversation with the Israeli Prime Minister will be organized by our ambassador in Tel Aviv in the coming days. The issue of destruction is also being addressed with Israel at European level in the context of the structured dialogue, which aims, inter alia, to put an end to such destruction. For Belgium, it is essential that concrete guarantees be put on the table, allowing destruction to stop. In parallel with this structured dialogue, I plead, as you know, for the development of a common approach at European level to follow up on the destruction or confiscation by Israel of projects or property financed by the European Union or its Member States in Area C. This common framework is indeed necessary in order to ensure the unity of our positions and attitude towards Israel, as well as the effectiveness of the steps that would be taken in this context. Work is under way within the European Union to establish a common compensation mechanism. Belgium actively participates in this process, stressing the need and urgency to provide a concrete and adequate response to this phenomenon. It goes without saying that rapid clarification of the political situation in Palestine is necessary in order to make progress in the negotiation process. I have called on the Palestinian Authority to work without delay so that the process of intra-Palestinian reconciliation can be brought to a successful conclusion. My interlocutors, in particular President Abbas, have assured me that a third session of the discussions that began in Qatar will take place shortly to make decisive progress on these issues. Before the end of the year, local elections are also planned, normally in October. We will, of course, have to see how the issue evolves in concrete terms over the next few weeks or months. It is clear that, in addition to the many difficult issues relating to the Israeli occupation, the Palestinian Authority must make progress, with respect for the rule of law and human rights. Thanks to a meeting with the members of civil society, it was possible to have a very interesting exchange of views. For example, there was talk of women's rights, the situation of civil society and certain laws restricting the individual rights of the Palestinians. During the interview I was pleased to see the vitality of the civil society in Palestine, despite sometimes difficult working conditions. Mrs Grovonius, I will not go back to the question of the recognition of Palestine as a State, which was not discussed during this trip. Let me spare you from repeating the government's position on this and referring you to the many answers I have already given you. I will hear you again with pleasure regarding "your" position on this matter. Other topics were discussed during this trip, including the fight against terrorism. I have had the opportunity to explain at length Belgium's commitment to this matter not only here but also in the Middle East region, during my various official talks and at the lunch-debate organized by the Israel Council on Foreign Relations. Prime Minister Netanyahu stressed the important and indispensable partnership between Europe and Israel on this issue. He made a commitment to pursue him, which I thanked him for. In fact, there have already been contacts between intelligence services on both sides. It is clear that I have had the opportunity to stress not only our firm and clear condemnation of terror and terrorism in all its forms, but also the importance of providing political solutions to the various regional conflicts. In addition, I have had the opportunity to address a number of specific issues, including our bilateral relations, such as Israel's refusal of access to the territory of certain Belgian nationals. On this subject too, a follow-up will be carried out by our embassy. Our position on administrative detentions is very clear, as I stressed during my visit. I was also able to stress our concern and reiterate our opposition to the detention of minors, particularly during my meeting with the Israeli President. My visit to Gaza and Kerem Shalom, the transit point to Gaza, was particularly instructive. It is clear that the situation in Gaza can only be analysed in relation to the broader political context I have just mentioned, in particular intra-Palestinian reconciliation and the revival of the peace process. The current status quo is unsustainable. I welcome our country's commitment to the development of Palestine: I was able to see the concrete results on the spot. Although much progress has been made since the July-August 2014 conflict, there is clearly still much work to be done to build up what has been destroyed, in particular with regard to housing and infrastructure. The high level of unemployment is particularly worrying and, in addition to the considerable material difficulties of the population, the situation also has indirect consequences, such as the increase in violence within marriage and psychological problems. I have therefore encouraged the Israeli authorities to make additional efforts to remove Gaza from its isolation, to lift the blockade and to allow for a significant improvement in the situation within Gaza. I note, however, that I have been able to establish on the spot that the construction of new tunnels poses a real security problem for Israel, because certain villages are just outside the border of the area under Hamas' authority. Moreover, it is regrettable to note that, on the Egyptian side, more than on the Israeli side, the transit for goods and persons is completely closed, which also prevents the development of Gaza. We must therefore also ask Egypt to provide better access for persons and goods to Gaza. I will conclude this introduction by explaining an international initiative that I mentioned two years ago, the idea of bringing together Israeli and Palestinian economic operators whom I had already met on the spot and European and even international operators. The lack of progress in the political consultations, at the time under the auspices of the United States, had delayed or even cancelled this initiative. I have therefore returned to the path of an initiative organised by Belgium, probably in collaboration with the European Union. I was able to meet local business leaders, both Palestinian and Israeli, who are already working together; a Chamber of Commerce connects economic operators on both sides. Results have already been achieved in the field. Of course, these economic meetings cannot be substituted for the political process essential for long-term stability in the region, but they could nevertheless have a positive impact on the situation in both the Palestinian territory and Israel. In this context, I would like to organise this year, preferably at the end of the year, in the last quarter, an economic meeting which will bring together businessmen and women, Palestinian and Israeli, but also Belgian and European, to see together concrete and useful avenues for advancing the development of the region. One of the avenues already mentioned is the list of obstacles that could be removed and that are currently hampering joint economic activity between Israel and Palestine and, indeed, simply economic activity from the Palestinian territories towards exports in a more general way. One could also imagine bilateral or trilateral collaborations between Belgian or European companies and companies, either Palestinian or Israeli, or both. The extent to which investment policies could take place must also be questioned. These steps will be discussed with regional agencies that, in the months prior to my visit, organized prospecting missions mainly directed towards Israel but also, in part, towards the Palestinian territories. In the coming days or weeks, what is expected is perhaps an evolution of the intra-Palestinian talks in Doha, as announced by President Abbas, and a meeting, under the aegis of France, to be held at ministerial level on 30 May, as announced. Finally, we can always hope for the resumption of direct bilateral contacts between partners, but the many statements show that they are particularly opposed to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u2	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I will not read the questions in their entirety because the first was about the content of the mission that has just been described to us in relatively detailed terms. Perhaps we will come back to some more specific elements once we have the record. I note that a number of points have been raised in the context of the meetings that you have organised: the question of destruction, colonization and administrative detentions. How do you describe these elements? Is this a condemnation by Belgium of this policy pursued by the Israeli government, or are you asking questions about it? Above all, I would like to know with whom you have approached these elements and the content of the answers that have been given to you. Among the issues raised, I would also mention the issue of access to the reconstruction of Gaza. I hear you support the French initiative. In the course of your presentation, you referred to the fact that you wanted a "resumption of the initiative". Do you have any information on progress in this area? On the other hand, you explained that there was more desire for direct bilateral discussion on the Israeli side. In the same vein, with whom did you address this question of the French initiative on the Israeli side? Have you detected any willingness to open up to this question? What concrete answer has been given to this question? As far as the destruction of projects is concerned, I understand that your angle is rather to try to establish a common mechanism at European level. Nevertheless, Belgian projects, financed by the Belgian Cooperation, are also affected. I do not deny the fact that there have been convictions made by you and Mr. From Croo, but we can see that they have a minimal range. Indeed, destruction continues. Until when will this option of the common European framework be defended? At some point, should a country, or even two or three, not take the lead and form a leader on certain issues to take more courageous positions than those that can be taken at European level, hoping that at this level this could have a driving effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u3	Minister, I too will not read my question. I should like briefly to remind you that there is a structural dialogue which was due to expire on 17 March. At that time, Europe would make a decision. I was a little surprised that Europe has so easily decided to extend the structural dialogue by six months. I found that easy, because Israel's behaviour in the last months of those first six months was actually totally unacceptable. If one looks at the number of destructions of constructions built with European aid, then there is a multiplication of 400 or 500 %. So I thought it was very soft of the European Union to agree to an extension of six months with Israel. You talked to your Israeli counterparts over there. Do you have the feeling or not that this time they have understood the message that will reduce the number of destructions and that after the end of that second six-month period we will come to a much better outcome than the one we had to establish on 17 March? You spoke about the international seminar you want to organise together with the European Union at the end of the year. All attempts are good. I do not think that is a bad thing, but I am asking myself whether the environment is such that it can already be expected that there is very good economic cooperation. What do I mean by that? A few days ago, the UN Secretary-General and Mr Krähenbühl, the leading UNRWA official, called the alarm: UNRWA has a pit of USD 81 million and the organisation is no longer able to guarantee the most essential in Gaza. Would it not be useful and very desirable for us to take the lead in this area as well and ask internationally that we... You've been to Gaza now, I presume. I've only seen footage. Colleagues have been there recently. The images of the destruction and of what has been destroyed, such as schools built up with European resources, are incredible. Before we think of extensive economic cooperation, I think there are more essential things that need to be put in order first, and that seems to me to be them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u4	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive introduction. My first question is a general question, which reflects Mrs Grovonius' comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u5	To what extent have you experienced listening readiness to all the points you have put on the table with your interlocutors? Do you feel that you have been able to achieve some results and that your partners have met or not on a number of points, for example when you touched on the issue of the detention of the Palestinian paediatrician? The latter is a matter on which there is a storm of protest internationally. Have you or have you not felt the willingness to consider this matter with Israel? Secondly, your presentation on the peace process and on the conditions for its restart was very interesting. After all, you state that Israel does not in itself lay down conditions for restarting bilateral negotiations. The Palestinians are doing this somewhat more closely. Much can of course be explained by the frustrations of the past and the promises that have been made. However, did you at some point put on the table the freezing of settlements? It seems logical to me that this dossier should be used as a starting point, just as it seems logical to me that a number of security guarantees should also be included in the negotiating framework vis-à-vis Israel. You speak of the tunnels in Gaza and the role of Egypt. Perhaps the United Nations can also play an important role in this respect, in order to ensure security with regard to Israel from Gaza. Thirdly, the future of Israeli-Palestinian security cooperation is of course extremely important. After all, if the Palestinian Authority fails, the barrier is the fence and the consequences cannot be seen. The disadvantage is that the Palestinian Authority is very well aware of the important role it plays, perhaps for that very reason it is inviolable and thinks it can afford to do things that are not in fact justifiable. For example, we discussed the Palestinian teachers' strike. A Palestinian Member of Parliament protested at that time. The Palestinian Authority has reacted rather harshly to this. This, of course, poses a huge dilemma for the international community. We need that Palestinian Authority, but it also needs to be put under sufficient pressure to carry out the reconciliation process with Hamas and to make an effort. We are sitting there with a very difficult balancing exercise. If we are critical of Israel, we must, if necessary, also criticise the Palestinian side. My fifth question concerns the destruction of infrastructure in zone C. You just said that, apart from the structured dialogue, you are also working on a European consultation and building a European consensus. Can you tell me more about that? I may be mistaken, but I was under the assumption that the efforts made in this area will take place fully within the structured dialogue. Then what happens out there? Is that something where you are trying to reach a consensus with all the Member States? Or are you going towards a form of enhanced cooperation with a number of Member States in this area? Are you prepared to take a number of steps bilaterally with regard to Israel if this fails, and in fact it has already failed? You could ask Israel to provide bilateral compensation to our country. My final question is in line with my first question. Are you considering putting a little more pressure on both sides? This could include bilateral compensation or a follow-up to the labelling of products from the settlements, in particular, why not ban imports of products from the settlements? I think such steps can make sense. My question is therefore what additional levers and means of pressure you are considering so that we can go there to an effective revival of the peace process? As you yourself have indicated, the unwillingness and the distance between the two sides is still great.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u6	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his briefing. I'll just talk about a few small things. Indeed, it was about the destruction of Palestinian homes that I intended to intervene. The only thing that can move the situation is sometimes money and justice. Perhaps by this means one could find a solution, which would be a kind of accounting of the aid provided less the destruction carried out? Of course, it is quite clear that the period is not at all timely and easy for the resumption of negotiations before the American elections. It is known that New York State is particularly important for the counting of votes in elections. Moreover, the situation in Iraq and Syria leads Israel to imagine that it can still postpone the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u7	Mr President, Minister, it must be recalled that it has been nine years since an illegal blockade was imposed on the Gaza Strip and that in the West Bank, in East Jerusalem, the construction of settlements is continuing. In Gaza, two years after the end of Operation Protective Edge, the damage caused by the Israeli aggression is still there; Mr.Minister, you have certainly noticed them. The problem is that reconstruction is slowed down because of the blockade and, in particular, because of the restrictions on the import of cement. The United Nations Agency for Humanitarian Affairs estimated that less than 1% of Gaza's cement needs had been met. It was in July 2015 but I am not sure that the situation has changed significantly since then. The population, whose water and electricity supply are rationed, lives in unacceptable conditions. You must have seen him, too, minister. It can be said that Gaza is now simply an open-air prison where 2.3 million people in 365 km2 are buried. Mr Minister, with regard to Gaza, you are telling us that the solution is to relaunch the peace process. When I went to Palestine, the Palestinians told me that Israel would continue for years to say that one day we would see this peace process that would one day be negotiated. In the meantime, Israel continues to colonize the territory more and more. The Israelis are advancing, occupying, even destroying Belgian humanitarian projects. On the one hand, everything has been blocked for years; on the other hand, the Israelis continue to advance. Minister, shouldn't you at some point review your way of acting, which is to always repeat the same thing every time on the Israeli-Palestinian issue? Wouldn't it be time to consider another strategy vis-à-vis Israel with more convincing arguments than those you are using today? I am not asking you to send F-16s against Israel as you want to do for Syria. I do not believe that the Belgian army would be in a position of force against the Israeli army. Perhaps it is time to move on to a higher stage and stop this identical rhetoric.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u8	Give me an example!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u9	Why not economic sanctions? There are a lot of people in the community that defend the rights of Palestinians and the fact that economic sanctions should be applied against Israel. Some even talk about boycott. This is a concrete proposal. This would be decided with the position – I will not talk about a position of submission vis-à-vis Israel – that you have supported so far. During your trip, did you point a finger at the problem of the blockade on cement? Have you been concrete? The destruction of European and, in particular, Belgian humanitarian infrastructure continues. You say these are progressing fast. I note that they are part of a broader Israeli strategy aimed at pushing Palestinians out of their land and further fragmenting their territory, to give way to the growing expansion of illegal Israeli settlements. Israel states that they destroyed an infrastructure because it was between two Israeli settlements. It is difficult in this country not to be between two Israeli settlements! You told us that it was the European Union that had to react, not Belgium. You said that the European Union had engaged in a structured dialogue with Israel to discuss financial compensation for these projects. Obviously, this dialogue is not making much progress. Can you tell us what has been discussed at this level with your Israeli interlocutors? Is it not time to consider asking for compensation for Belgium if things drag on to this point at European level by not being part of a European dialogue that lasts too long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u10	Minister, you are one of the few politicians who recently visited Gaza. I'm sure glad you took that step. I think this should be mentioned here, because I think that was an important visit. I'm also positive after reading articles in the press. Especially the French-speaking press has a lot to say about your trip. I have also listened carefully to your statement just now. I note that you have also listened carefully to all the issues raised here in Parliament over the past year concerning the conflict between Israel and Palestine. You've put a lot of things on the table and made them negotiable. As you have just confirmed, on your journey you have put on the table the subject of illegal settlements and you have talked about the destruction of those humanitarian projects. You have also spoken about the French initiative and expressed your support for it. If I can believe the newspapers, the tone was frank and direct. I assume that there is a basis for truth in that and that these things have been clearly put forward. So I think that is very positive. I would like to draw attention to a third point. You have also taken a very important initiative, namely the launch of a conference on the reconstruction of Gaza. You have invited several people to Brussels: Belgian, Palestinian and Israeli economic actors from the West Bank and Gaza. In this context, you have also advocated the lifting of the blockade of Gaza. You have called on Israel to facilitate access, including for building materials. You have emphasised the reconstruction of infrastructure, such as schools and power stations in Gaza. I think these are very important steps. Mr Van der Maelen has just asked whether this should be a priority. I believe that economic development, together with the sustainable development of the population, is very important. If you take further steps in this direction and organise that conference effectively, I hope that the subject of the corridor can also be put on the table there. Many people link a lot of files and possibilities to that too. If these matters are discussed, I think you could have really taken an important step. We are used here in Belgium to sometimes reducing very complex dossiers to symbolic files, think of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. Perhaps you can also reduce this very complex dossier to a soluble problem and take steps in it. I'm closing up. I hope that you will take these steps and that we in Parliament can continue to encourage you to do so. You've put in new thinking tracks. My only question is whether this is indeed a priority on your agenda for the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the previous speaker has asked very interesting questions. To start with the latter: it is important to find out what was most meaningful of your visit. If you have started planting seeds there, the question is how Belgium can anticipate and ensure that levers are created to give the negotiations a start. This requires a priority for our country in our foreign policy. That is the first question I would like to join. I come to my second question. Mr Netanyahu has made it clear that he does not like the French initiative of the peace conference. What are the chances that the peace conference will not continue? Should she continue, what results could she yield? You also mentioned the destruction of projects built with Belgian and European support. Europe has postponed the deadline again by six months and will re-examine how this can be negotiated. Do you think that you will somehow be able to increase pressure within Europe and give the incentive to obtain compensation for those destructions? I heard on the radio this afternoon that Belgium is the only country in Europe to take an offensive stance. The other countries are not very involved. Perhaps you should take a tour of Europe to convince your fellow Members to be more offensive in this matter. That might be a good position for Belgium. You have also made it clear that nothing must be done to jeopardise the two-state solution. The question we need to ask ourselves is what is going on today. You come back and your last words were that the unwillingness is very great. To what extent is a two-state solution still possible? Israel is working against it permanently. In what way should we look at this with the international community? You spoke about the proposal to organise an economic conference. I might be able to make another proposal. During our visit we spoke to the Parents Circle, an association in Israel of parents of children who died in this conflict, both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side. The Parents Circle goes into schools and tell everyone in society how they share their losses together. They share with many other people the resilience with which they once again believe in a society in which they can live together, both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side. It would perhaps be interesting, on our side, to allocate additional resources to support such an organisation. What would be your position on this for the sole purpose of informing this committee, should you be Minister for Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u12	We did not immediately have a question, Minister, but our group wishes to join the debate. We are pleased that you have included some of the issues to which we attach great importance on your journey. The destruction that Israel is carrying out on Palestinian territory is absolutely unacceptable. Dialogue is an absolute necessity in the peace process. We are also still in favour of a negotiated two-state solution. I understand that you brought it up there as well. The resumption of dialogue will, of course, require the commitment of both sides, both Israel and Palestine. Both sides will have to make a number of concessions. We are the first to see Israel, that the blockade of Gaza will have to be lifted, and that you have also discussed here, and the colonisation will have to stop. On the other hand, Palestine will have to make an enormous effort to disarm and stop the attacks on Israel. As you said, the Palestinian Authority will have to make a huge effort in the future to get a foothold and to make it possible to develop a society. Above all, we hope that you will take the initiative with your European colleagues to keep the dialogue open for discussion and that you will keep the pressure high in the European Member States. Dialogue and the participation of the partners are essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u13	Mr Minister, we have had very positive news reports about your trip to Israel and Palestine. I'm glad. It is also important to stress that you are one of the few ministers who visited the Gaza Strip. It should be recalled that our country advocates the recognition of the two States, as well as the resumption of the dialogue which seems still difficult to implement. I have also read that you have pleaded for the lifting of the Israeli blockade in the Palestinian enclave. This point was probably raised in this frank and direct interview you had with Mr Netanyahu. You also called for the free movement of the Palestinian population in the Gaza Strip in order to improve its quality of life. As far as I'm concerned, I've never been able to go, but the stories we've been told in this area suggest that life on the spot must be very sad. Of course, initiatives need to be taken in the region to address them. With regard to this project of a playground set up by the Belgian Cooperation, which has been completely destroyed, your position has also been clear. It was important to make our voice heard in this area. Finally, with regard to the fight against terrorism, your discussions with Mr Netanyahu suggest that constructive collaborations can be envisaged with our country. As some are about to be put in place, I would have liked to know more about this. We can welcome the fact that, through our relative diplomatic force, given the size of our country, we have been able to give a strong signal in terms of openness and dialogue. We have also been able to deliver an optimistic message which, I hope, can be heard by the other European countries, so that the efforts made to relaunch the peace processes between the two countries can be part of a positive dynamic. Minister, my questions are as follows. As regards the destruction of humanitarian projects in Palestine, including Belgian projects, the Israeli position via the Embassy in Brussels raises the question of the necessary permits that would not have been obtained. Has this situation been clarified? Could we have approached her? Were you able to have useful contacts for the organisation in Brussels of this economic conference between Israeli, Palestinian, Belgian and European economic actors? The situation in the Golan could be discussed in the framework of the inter-Syrian negotiations. More specifically, regarding the crossing point between Israel and Gaza: Israel controls all crossings with the Gaza Strip except for the Rafah crossing, which is under Egyptian control. There is also some tension there between Hamas and Egypt. The Israeli Defense Minister has just announced the upcoming reopening of Erez's passage to the transfer of goods. Do you have any details on this reopening? Could a security check on the part of Europeans or the UN be useful on this crossing point? With regard to the situation in Gaza and the level of reconstruction since the summer of 2014, have the promises made by the Arab countries to help Gaza been kept?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the fact that you have been able to visit Gaza, which has not been the case for all the parliamentarians who have visited the region for two years now. It is important that you have obtained this visit. The images of a Belgian Prime Minister speaking in Gaza are strong images and I would like to congratulate you on this gesture. I have two simple questions that are part of what my colleague De Vriendt has already said. Firstly, on the question of compensation and sanctions in relation to Belgian and European cooperation projects destroyed in Area C, there are two methods: to denounce and to act. Denounce, you did it and you did it right. You did it in April and you did it again – which is brave – in front of the Israeli Prime Minister. Greetings. You talked about the common European framework. My question is this: are the contacts with your 27 colleagues in the European Union parallel and concurrent with a possible Belgian unilateral initiative or is the common European framework you call for a condition or a precondition for a possible bilateral claim process for damage to Belgian and European cooperation projects in Area C in Palestine? You mentioned the fight against terrorism. This is my second question: during your visit, have contacts been taken for cooperation envisaged or possible by the Belgian Government concerning the security of airports. We know that the Israelis are specialists in very aggressive forms of control at Ben Gurion Airport. As a green, I would not like us to be inspired by Ben Gurion to set up aggressive and discriminating procedures at Brussels Airport. Were there any bilateral contacts of this type between Brussels Airport and Ben Gurion Airport in connection with your visit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u15	I would like to thank all the members of the committee in advance. It was not an easy visit, sometimes for security reasons, sometimes for other reasons. I tried to get in touch with the two partners and I also tried to visit Gaza. That's not easy. I have mentioned the issues that have been developed in our Parliament and which live here. Then I tried to come up with concrete initiatives. Firstly, I come to the relationship with Israel and the various convictions for some very serious facts. You're asking me the question of who you're with. First with the Israeli Prime Minister. I believe that in Israel, the best way to have a debate is to talk openly about it with the Israeli Prime Minister. I can tell you that the interview was truly frank and direct. The Israeli position is, of course, not the same as the Belgian or European position, whether it is when we have dealt with the aspect of colonization, or other aspects. Since many of you have come back on this subject, let us take the part relating to the destruction of infrastructure or equipment in zone C. The reaction, moreover, quite virulent, is to say that these constructions are illegal because they have not been the subject of prior authorisations, which we do not recognize at all, and certainly not for humanitarian infrastructure. In fact, I have put forward this idea firmly: how can we imagine that anything is needed as an authorization to develop projects such as a recreation area, a playground for children, on a humanitarian level. It is a fact, Mr De Vriendt, that there are more and more destructions of installations. We are moving forward with the European approach. There's a six-month extension. Not all European countries share the same view. You know that. However, we are trying to go further in legal terms, but also in political terms, with Israel. But now I have also started something bilaterally. There was a question for Israel, and a proposal from the Prime Minister, to table not only the European Union and Israel, but also Belgium and Israel, to know first and foremost the two views on this infrastructure. I have also referred to a number of problems with Belgians, for example at the airport, and even a number of arrests. We are starting as far as possible, first and foremost to hear the two different views and to respond to them. It is not easy to obtain compensation for an investment in a third country without a treaty or an ISDS clause. Maybe we should go to a court in Israel. Maybe that's the best solution. I do not know, but to be more serious, we have started bilateral contact. However, there are differences of opinion. I have heard a different view from the Prime Minister of Israel. What is important in the debate is that Belgium's position is clearly expressed, recalling the condemnations – and the Israelis know this – that we have repeatedly expressed in press releases on settlements, on administrative detentions, on destruction. But here we are also asking for direct dialogue because we do not agree on the explanations given to us. What is the usefulness of this bilateral dialogue? There are two: to see if we cannot organise something between Israel and Belgium, but also to use what we are going to hear in this bilateral dialogue within the European framework to try to convince partners to move in the same direction, to avoid a number of acts. What is the argument against the Israeli Prime Minister? I will be very clear: he has tried above all to explain to what extent we need to improve relations between the European Union – Belgium and in particular – and Israel because we have a common fight against terrorism that must be able to be carried out by making Europe's best ally on this issue. I am not going to go into the long comment on what one might or might not think of this, but I have told him that if one wanted to do this, it was an additional reason to avoid committing acts that run counter to that intention. I have always told the Prime Minister that it is impossible, for example, to destroy a playground and at the same time to build a better relationship with the European Union. Even with Israel's correct vision of possible destruction, the question is why such a decision should be taken. There's no point in going to a better relationship. I reject the various arguments put forward by Israel, but even with a correct argument, it makes no sense to do so, even in a number of individual cases. As far as we are concerned, the tone was a very clear and clear condemnation and a demand not only for a relationship between the European Union and Israel, but also for a bilateral relationship on this issue. This applies to us, but also to the use of it in discussions within the European Union, and only as a means of reaching a conviction. It is not just a legal argument or a political argument in relation to the position of the European Union and Belgium, but also a political argument in relation to the message given by Israel. The Prime Minister is asking for a better relationship and I repeat that a freeze on settlements, but also the cessation of so many destructions of installations, is perhaps the best way to a positive evolution. Will it be possible to see concrete changes on the ground? I don't know. I do not know to what extent we will get an approach, but I would like to confirm that the approach is not only European and in the context of the discussions that we are trying to influence within the European Union, but also in a framework that starts bilaterally. During my visit to Kerem Shalom, one saw an Israeli army colonel who wanted to start discussions on the subject immediately. We will therefore begin this debate directly with their services on these destructions in particular but also on individual situations. As far as colonization or administrative detention is concerned, we are not the only ones involved. This is a situation that is criticized, in particular, for a number of acts against the Palestinian Authority. This is the position that has been clearly expressed and on-line with the Prime Minister on behalf of Belgium. I also assume, but I do not have a report on the matter, that during visits organised by the federated entities in particular, convictions are expressed in such a strong way and requests are made in the same way. I cannot guarantee that I have no specific information on this matter. The second element, the peace process. We support the French initiative. However, I do not yet have precise information on its content. We're still waiting for an invitation. Some invitations have already been sent. I have seen the reaction of the Prime Minister of Israel to the content. It was not very positive, I must say, to remain diplomatic. It is particularly important to consider what is possible after that initiative in the area of genuine dialogue between the parties. A role for the international community is very good, but to do what? I've read and heard about the comparison with Iran. That was a discussion between the international community and a country. This is a real conversation between two partners. We may need to find something between the two, with a certain role for the international community, but in the end it will only be possible to get two states after a real dialogue between the two partners. We support the French initiative, as I said to all the partners on both sides, the Palestinian authorities and Israel. This is a useful initiative, because something is being done. There is nothing else at the moment except, as I said, the Quartet report to be presented before the end of May. I hope that we will be able to play a role in this area and try to move this initiative forward, but there is still much more to be done. The visions are strongly opposed between the Palestinian Authority, which supports an international and multilateral approach, and Israel, which wants instead a direct dialogue approach. I could also say what the Israeli Prime Minister told me himself. I didn't take it at all. He told me that if I could arrange this bilateral contact in Brussels, he would fly the next day. But he knows very well that the answer will not immediately be positive in the head of the President of the Palestinian Authority. But that is the message! You have to hear it. On the one hand, we sit at the table when we want to have a direct, unconditional dialogue and, on the other, we want an international initiative. At one point, these two approaches will have to be reconciled and we will not escape an individual discussion. I said something about my contacts with civil society in Palestine. To be quite specific and honest, the first criticisms are directed against Israel. There is no doubt about that. I've had very long conversations. At first I was told a long list of points of criticism of Israel's actions. However, what was also very remarkable was that there was also criticism of the Palestinian government for the lack of elections. There haven't been elections in ten years. It may be possible to hold local elections in October. That was said by the Prime Minister. It is certainly in the Constitution, as in many other countries. We will see if it is possible to do so, and certainly in Gaza. Is it possible to have elections with Hamas? I'm not sure about that, and neither is the Palestinian government. Presidential and parliamentary elections can only be held after an agreement between Hamas and Fatah. Under the official flag, I have heard many positive messages saying that it is possible to reach an agreement, perhaps in May, before the meeting in Paris. There is a third round of negotiations, but I wonder where it will lead. I have also heard other speakers who say that it will be a very long time and that even after an agreement with Hamas, it may take one to two years for real elections to be prepared. There is also criticism of some laws. We know that in many other countries too. For example, there is criticism of a new social security law. There is also the possibility of demonstrating this in Palestine. However, what I think is more dangerous is a possible new law relating to NGOs. That law would impose many restrictions on NGOs. Maybe that law won't come. It is an important point of interest in Palestine. However, let there be no misunderstanding: the first criticism is always directed against Israel's policy. That makes sense. There were a lot of questions. Mrs Claerhout, thank you for your response, not only in relation to the press reports. The VRT and Belga were also on board. I have also read and heard several comments. I would certainly like to thank you for your comments on my initiative in the economic field. Why would that be possible now and not a while ago? I got that question twice today. Two years ago, I tried to organise a real international conference with the support of the European Union, the United States and other partners. At the same time, there was a more important American initiative in the political field. The United States, as well as other partners, have always asked me to wait until progress has been made in the political peace process. However, this has never been the case. There has even been a third intifada, so it was impossible to have an international conference. Now I'm trying to go to a Belgian initiative. I'm not asking for a major international conference. It will be a meeting with partners from Israel, Palestine and Belgium. I'll send an invitation to many other partners. We are trying to work with the European Union, with the Regions and at Belgian level with the three Agencies in terms of companies. It is very useful to do so, to pay attention to something other than the construction of homes and schools and the supply of energy and water. That's very important to Gaza, but it's not enough. We need to do more. We must have a real economic development in Gaza. There are so many children and young people there. It is pointless to build new homes and schools. This is very important, but we must also have sustainable development in order to make real economic progress. I will conclude by saying that there is indeed a willingness to work together with certain economic actors. I once again had the opportunity to meet together Israeli economic actors within Israel, economic actors from the Arab minority in the territory of Israel, as well as operators from the West Bank and Gaza. They're all together. When you go to Israel, you can meet them and gather them around the table. At least that's what I'm doing. It's not always easy. Nor is it easy for me to enter or leave the Palestinian territories. Whenever possible, we get together and we get there. This happened in Tel-Aviv, which shows that they are ready to do so in very different places. Here, we will take the initiative and I hope that before the end of the year – because we have to prepare this kind of meeting – we will bring something to the process through this process. Mr Van Hees, I take note of your proposals for action or action. It is true that we have a position that may be a little repetitive, but I simply give you advice when you return to the region: meet the Israeli authorities as well. You told me what the Palestinian authorities thought and what the Palestinian authorities thought of what the Israelis thought. Personally, when I try to find out what someone thinks, I meet him, whether with you or with others. I like to hear you. That's why I asked you for clarification, but the next time you go to the area, try to find out on both sides. You'll see that there are nuances. When visiting villages just outside Gaza, there are also families who have experienced quite dramatic moments because they have lived under rockets or a number of other particularly deadly elements. We simply have to try to hear what is being said and repeated on both sides. I wanted this visit to take place completely. Fortunately, this has been the case, not only in the West Bank but also in Gaza. Efforts must be made to carry out initiatives that can make progress in a concrete direction. I would simply like to say to Mr Hellings that there has been no discussion on airports but that relations are under way between the intelligence services but also with other Belgian and Israeli security operators. I know that the Minister of Mobility intended to go to Israel. We'll see if this intention is confirmed. In any case, security contacts are made but not beyond. With regard to the situation at the crossing points, Mrs Jadin, there are currently between 800 and 900 trucks passing through Kerem Shalom every day. An opening announcement – not yet a programming – to access goods was made by Erez. For the moment, this is only for people. Unfortunately, in parallel, the crossing point to Egypt is completely closed. It is open at most once or twice a month and we must therefore put pressure on that side as well. Finally, I did not specifically discuss the Golan on the occasion of this visit, but this point is raised in the context of developments on the Syrian issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u16	I have a question about the dialogue on the destruction in zone C. You will start a bilateral process. In doing so, the positions will first be exchanged in order to obtain a clear view of the situation. I believe that these views are already quite clear on both sides. Will you ask bilaterally for compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u17	That's the case. After the start, we must first move towards an exchange of views and, ultimately, of positions. The work on compensation has been done within the European Union. We're looking for the best way to do that. This is not so obvious, without the protection of investments through a treaty and a specific clause to go to arbitration. The first road is an Israeli court. I know that it is your group's question to go to national courts in such a situation, with judges appointed by the government on the spot. I won't go into it now, but there are other roads. We are trying to conduct that investigation within the European Union. Bilateral contacts have begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u18	Minister, when I went there, I met with former Israeli soldiers who were offended by the politics of their government and army, and in particular by the horrific acts they had been forced to carry out. I heard Israelis, but they obviously didn't have the same opinions as those you heard. With regard to the rocket fire on the Israeli side of some of the Gaza Strip's neighbours, I understand well, but I find it difficult to support the comparison between the victims on the Palestinian side of the Gaza border and the victims on the Israeli side. If you do the count, you will see that it leans heavily on one side. It seems doubtful to me to make a comparison at this level so much the imbalance is strong. As far as the destruction of humanitarian infrastructure is concerned, you tell us that there is a dialogue with the European Union and also with Belgium. The positions are known. It would be a matter of coming with the question of compensation, otherwise we will remain in the dialogue of the deaf. In conclusion, I fear that the kind of policy you are leading, like being understanding with Mr. Netanyahu...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u19	I don't know if he'll let you in again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u20	I've already been able to come in once, but if it doesn't go well, I'll go with you, minister. I was therefore saying that this kind of policy applied to South Africa would have had the consequence of maintaining the apartheid regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u21	I shall first give the floor to the Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u22	Mr President, from 24 to 26 April I visited Luanda and Kinshasa, focusing on the political situation in the DRC. In Angola, I had the opportunity to speak with the President, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Mines. In Kinshasa there were meetings with the main tenors of the political class, both of the majority and the opposition. I was in contact with the institutions, namely the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Interior, and also with the opposition, including G7, UDPS and Dynamique de löppostition. I also met the representatives of UNHRC, BCNUDH, civil society, the Church and NGOs. In both countries I was also able to speak with a number of Belgian economic actors. I can be brief about the visit to Angola. The political situation in the DRC was at the heart of the exchange of views with the Angolan authorities, who share our concerns but rather take a wait-and-see attitude. I also spoke to President Dos Santos about Burundi. We believe that it is possible to make another attempt to establish a real dialogue between the majority and the opposition there. It was planned in Arusha, but wasn't very successful so far. We're trying to move on together now. Then I come to my explanation of my visit to the DRC. In Kinshasa, the mission took place within a rather difficult political framework. The current situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is worrying, in particular because of the stalemate in various aspects of the electoral process. The Government was reluctant to hold elections within the constitutional framework. Most of the opposition camped on its principles and refused a dialogue, seeing it as a manoeuvre by President Kabila to circumvent his constitutional prohibition to represent himself in 2016. Meanwhile, delays have occurred in the preparations for the electoral process. The shift in the electoral calendar now seems inevitable and creates many uncertainties. In this pre-electoral context, the human rights situation is constantly deteriorating. The attitude of the authorities is getting stronger and an increasing number of acts of harassment and intimidation against politicians, members of civil society and the media are reported. In addition, the deterioration of the socio-economic situation is another cause for concern. At the same time as the political blockage, this aspect could quickly become a factor of instability. During my visit to Kinshasa, I insisted on two debates, respect for human rights and the electoral process. These are the two messages I have highlighted to all my interlocutors, including in a face-to-face meeting with the President of the Republic. I will start with the situation of respect for human rights. The tightening of the political climate took place on the weekend of my departure for the region. At least eleven persons associated with opposition political parties were detained on the weekend of 23 and 24 April. Taking into account the concerns of the international community and the councils of the governor of Kinshasa, the authorities tolerated the planned demonstration and seemed to have asked the police to be discreet. The demonstration took place peacefully in Kinshasa, as well as in Goma and Bukavu, but not in Lubumbashi. Our main concern is the restriction of public and democratic space. As such, not to mention the collective responsibility of the government and the state, I stressed the individual responsibility of the various actors, including within the security services. This remark was made in the presence of the leaders of the Congolese security services themselves, particularly during a meeting with the Minister of the Interior. They must use force proportionately and avoid arbitrary arrests that have appeared many times in recent times. Otherwise, there will be consequences. I recalled that the situation was even more difficult in the run-up to an election period. I have also advocated for measures of appeasement and confidence-building, such as the authorization of peaceful demonstrations. I have just recalled that they may have taken place under correct circumstances in several places, including Kinshasa. The release of political prisoners is another element that could contribute to appeasement. Other measures are possible. A similar message in terms of appeasement has been repeated several times vis-à-vis the opposition. The electoral process is the other debate that is now, of course, agitating the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This process must be restarted as soon as possible by taking concrete steps. It's minus five, as we often say. There is an urgent need because, according to the electoral calendar, the electoral body must normally be convened by CENI from mid-September, as the President himself recalled; then, the date of 27 November should be the date of the presidential and legislative elections, and finally the date of 20 December, when the President's term of office would end constitutionally, even if, according to the majority, the President would continue to run the country until a new President was elected. A question was asked of the Constitutional Court on the interpretation of the Congolese Constitution in this regard. The risks of violence and destabilization are high during this period. I called on the authorities, CENI in the lead of which I met with the President, to propose as soon as possible a timetable and options for the various political actors to decide on the situation and to reach a compromise, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with resolution 2277 adopted unanimously by the Security Council, which underlines the primary responsibility of the Congolese authorities for the preparation and organisation of the elections in accordance with the relevant constitutional provisions. The revision of the electoral register is under way. It will also be necessary to decide which elections will be held, presidential and legislative, certainly, perhaps also local, when and with what funding. We're in an important momentum. It is now that these elements need to be addressed and concrete steps taken to move forward. If a consensus can be reached on the technical aspects of election, our country is prepared to consider a financial contribution. That is what we planned for the local elections a few years ago. We are prepared to support that electoral process. I am in contact with my colleague in development cooperation and with our international partners, first and foremost the EU, to ensure that international contributions are coordinated as far as possible. MONUSCO's logistical support for the electoral process is also possible. With a real start of the procedure in Congo, MONUSCO and the international community and Belgium in particular can do something. It is also right that the electoral process should initially be financed through the Congolese budget itself. With regard to political dialogue, in the light of the current stalemate and rising tensions, we stress the need for this dialogue to be credible. It should normally take place among all significant political actors representing the most important political forces, on the basis of the concrete options of CENI in order to reach a rapid consensus on a clear road map leading to full respect for electoral appointments, in particular the presidential elections, in accordance with the constitution and respect for resolution 2277 and the African Charter for Democracy of Elections and Governance. In this process, I stressed the idea that the much-discussed dialogue should, above all, be brief and focus on these elements of the organization of the elections. There are many other issues that can be addressed, but the delay should not be exacerbated by discussions that would address many other issues than those directly related to the election. In this context, together with regional and international partners, we support the mission of the African Union facilitator, Mr Edem Kodjo, supported by the United Nations, who are the primary guarantors of UN Security Council Resolution 2277. We invite all Congolese stakeholders to cooperate fully with him. As far as resolution 2277 is concerned, I also had contact in Kinshasa with MONUSCO, in particular with Maman Sidikou, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, and with Said Djinnit, the Special Envoy for the Great Lakes. We discussed the way in which the UN can assist the African Union in its facilitation mission, as well as the technical and logistical support of MONUSCO in the electoral process. I said MONUSCO could do a lot. MONUSCO will have to play an important role in the security of the elections. Specifically, with regard to the adoption of resolution 2277, Belgium had stressed the need for a MONUSCO mandate focusing on the protection of civilians and support for the electoral process, as well as the need to tarnish the sources of funding for armed groups, including trafficking in natural resources. The text of the resolution is a step in the right direction and does not reduce the ceiling for MONUSCO on the ground. However, this is a compromise. The key issue is the implementation of the mandate. For the electoral process, we must now come to concrete decisions in Congo. We will start the process, but it seems to me that elections are not possible in the short term. Maybe it'll be November or later. Without concrete decisions in the next few weeks and months, that will also be impossible, and that can prevent a stable situation in Congo. I would like to say a word about what is often referred to today in the press comments as the Katumbi case. Before deciding, I will dwell on the events surrounding the former governor of Katanga, Moïse Katumbi. On the day when Mr. Katumbi officially announced his candidacy for the presidential election, Justice Minister Alexis Thambwe announced on 4 May that he had ordered the Attorney General of the Republic to open an investigation into the recruitment of foreign mercenaries linked to Moïse Katumbi in the former Katanga province. On the occasion of a breakfast with our Consul General this Saturday morning, May 7, Moïse Katumbi asked to stay temporarily at our consulate, worrying about his personal situation. He left the residence that night, reassured. On Monday morning he went to the summons of the prosecutor's office from which he came free. The hearing resumed today, Wednesday 11 May, and we are following the situation closely. I spoke about these events from Israel where I was on an official visit. I have been in contact with our Consul General in Lubumbashi, our Ambassador in Kinshasa, Moïse Katumbi himself and the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, who I have expressed my concern. It is important to stress that Belgium does not want to interfere in the judicial process in this country, but we are concerned about attempts at manipulation by the judiciary or some of its services in order to neutralise an opponent. Belgium therefore hopes that the investigation into Mr Katumbi will meet the international criteria for objectivity, independence and reliability. A number of lawyers are now at his side and we will continue to monitor the situation hour by hour. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we call for the responsibility of all authorities in the DRC, especially in the context of an electoral debate that will have to come. The individual responsibility of the leaders of the institutions, justice and security is engaged. There will be consequences if the security situation, and hence the human rights situation, are derailed. It is time to restart the process and give prospects in terms of the electoral calendar. It's been a long time. The lack of clear and clear electoral prospects raises tensions. If we wait too long, we risk seeing the situation drift as we have seen it drift in other countries of the region. Only a constitutionally legitimate and democratically elected executive can bring stability and bring together all the vital forces of the country, indispensable to consolidate the important advances of recent years and to address the many remaining security, humanitarian, governance and development challenges in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The DRC is at a turning point. The international community is concerned and we are following the situation closely with our African and international partners, including the African Union, the United Nations and, of course, the European Union. The time has come for a clear common message from the European Union on the situation in the DRC. The adoption of conclusions at the next Foreign Affairs Council is therefore extremely welcome. For Belgium, human rights and democratic space as well as the need to move the electoral process forward should be the key elements of our message, alongside the notion of urgency. These are the same elements that are defended by Belgian diplomacy during the various contacts and international meetings, including the meeting of the contact group on the Great Lakes held in Stockholm on 4 May. I'll give you one final conclusion. I said that in Angola and in Congo. We must be very attentive to the economic evolution of the region, not only in Congo, but also in Angola and perhaps in other countries, given the sharp fall in prices of oil and other products. We have identified many budgetary problems in several countries. Many countries, not only Greece, but also countries from that region, even Angola, are asking for a loan from the IMF. From my contact with President dos Santos and with my colleague, the Foreign Minister, I have learned that there is a question on the table for a three-year loan from the IMF. There is also Congo's demand for budget assistance. There is therefore not only a risk of tensions through the electoral process, but also because of economic and social problems, because young people, for example, do not find work and increasingly live in poverty. In short, we must be attentive not only to the electoral process and respect for human rights, but also to economic evolution, which is very difficult for Congo and for many other countries in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for all this information. Thank you, Mr President, for agreeing to organise this topical debate. I asked you because it seemed to me that it was important, in addition to what had been done previously for Israel and Palestine, to have that information. As you say, the situation is becoming more and more complex there too. We are in a particularly important year, a year of multiple elections. I was there a month ago, you know that, minister. I did have the same feeling as you about the difficulties on the ground and in the political direction. The analysis you make of it is more or less the same, except that I have the impression that the situation is becoming more and more complex. Katumbi's story shows a whole series of problems and drifts. From the moment he has officially run for office, elements are starting to come out and there are demonstrations, mainly of support. There's still one for now in Lubumbashi that looks like it's going well. We can only rejoice, but we also know that from one minute to the next things can change dangerously. I share your analysis of the human rights issue. I have also been able to meet many people in civil society, and their concern is evident. If this remains peaceful, it is because they are still waiting for a clear timetable and the results of this political dialogue to take place. I fully agree with what you said about the outline. It is necessary that all political parties meet around the table and try to define a clear and precise outline and an electoral calendar as soon as possible. You've met people from the opposition. I would like to know if you also had the opportunity to meet with the members of the G7. How do they feel about this dialogue? With regard to the organisation of elections and this famous electoral calendar, I find it difficult to understand. You met with the President of CENI (the Independent National Electoral Commission). I saw him, too. We must hold the speech of respect for the Constitution, that is undeniable, not only in relation to the third mandate but also in relation to the organizational deadline. As you know, there are two problems for the organisation of these elections: the constitution of the electoral register and the financing. The electoral file is still in 2011 and has not been adapted. We find ourselves with people who, since 2011, have reached their majority but are not taken up, which still represents more or less 7 million people. People who have died are still included in this file. There are military and police who don't vote there. There is also the diaspora abroad that is not being taken up. We know that this file is not complete. You have met with the President of CENI, that there is an ongoing process to review this electoral file, but this revision as proposed by CENI provides for a period of sixteen months, this period having begun to run on February 10 of this year. Once we have the electoral roster, we need to add four to six months to organize the elections, which is 22 months in total. We are always told that Kabila will not represent himself, that the Constitution will be respected. But we have the impression that he is making his third mandate through the slide. We are also thinking about the transitional regime that should be put in place, in the event that the elections are not held. We have also questioned the Constitutional Court on this issue, in order to determine whether it could remain in power. I think the answer is already known, we know what will come out of it. If the elections are to take place within the constitutional deadline of 27 November, the timetable proposed by CENI cannot be kept. That's a problem. The second problem is funding. Elections are expensive in the Congo, because it is a very large country. The movements are huge, difficult to organize. In the DRC budget, $500 million had been earmarked for this purpose. This does not mean that the government has already provided for this amount. It had committed itself to doing so in instalments of 30 million in the first months and 50 million in the last months. We know that he has not kept up with his commitment, because of the decline in income from raw materials and the economic situation. When I returned, I had the impression that they were telling us that they would like to organize the elections but that unfortunately, they had these file and funding problems. And that "friends of the Congo", as they say, tend to drop them, that they need their help but see nothing coming. I have tabled an amendment to the various texts concerning the Democratic Republic of the Congo, because it is absolutely necessary to avoid falling into an impasse. For the moment, the situation is relatively calm, I am talking about demonstrations, arrests. We know that there are tensions in the country and that can shift from day to day because the population is waiting for a strong gesture from Kabila, a clear and precise timetable and elections. Given Belgium's influence and significant weight in the DRC file – it is often listened to and its opinion is expected in the Central African dossiers in general – in order to avoid finding ourselves in a scenario in Burundi and since funding exists both at Belgian and European level and in the African Union and in other countries – I have met with members of MONUSCO – could we not propose to launch tranche funding? This process should of course be considered at international level, but Belgium could give the impetus to start by paying the first tranche, in order to organise the electoral register, which can be done more quickly than in 16 months. If the international community agreed to finance and accompany the constitution of this electoral register, we could propose, in addition to funding, that escorts be sent to the country to create this electoral register. It is necessary to avoid falling back into the course of 2011, we must ensure continuity in order to reproduce it every 4 years during the elections. Some people tell me that this electoral file could be set up within 4 to 6 months, a much more reasonable time frame that could be respected and approved by all Congolese. I would like to hear your views on this proposal for tranche financing. The first part should be carried out quickly in order to create the electoral register. If concrete results and evidence of a result are visible, then we could finance things differently. Yet, a ruling of the Constitutional Court tells us that Joseph Kabila could stay in his presidential chair. You could have doubted it. This was my first reflection on the financing and the problem of the electoral register. You said that attention should be paid to the human rights situation. What is happening with Katumbi is worrying. I would also like to hear from you about this dialogue and the opposition's perception of it. A new mandate was given to MONUSCO on 30 March. It has been refocused, and this is important in the current circumstances, on the protection of civilians and support for free elections. How does Belgium position itself in this regard? Did you think about it with the Department of Defense? If a precise timetable for the elections is reached, is Belgium ready to deploy logistical means to organise them? You are talking about a consultation with the Ministers for Development Cooperation and Defence. In the event of a clear and precise advance, will Belgium take an active part, in particular with the Defence for the logistical means? I would also like to hear from you about your contacts with your European counterparts and those of the African Union. Does a common position tend to emerge? We can't wait anymore, it's not even minus five, it's five more! Every day and every week that passes will de facto delay the presidential elections. In addition, further elections should follow. We won't be able to organize them all. In any case, for the legislatures, there is the problem of the census, which may take longer but is necessary for the holding of parliamentary elections. How do you view the organization of this census? Do we not risk delaying the elections because of the need for this census? For me, these are two distinct questions. Priority must be given to presidential elections with a clear and precise timetable and with respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u24	Minister, you have already discussed the incidents and the meetings during your visit in detail. Congo even chased you a little, because you were in Israel, just leaving the Congo, but you had to reconnect because of the incident involving Mr Katumbi. I would like to think briefly with you about a possible different strategy and a possible different view of the current events. You say that you will link possible financial support to a specific calendar, on which an agreement must be reached. You also expect concrete facts to happen on the ground, with which we are actually in the middle of a moment today. If it doesn't, there's a delay anyway. However, in order to draw up an amended list of voters, according to the CENI, it has been necessary for 18 months. I therefore believe that delay is inevitable. We shouldn't call each other Lijzebet. As the situation now stands, these elections will not be able to take place this year. We can continue to bicolate within the same framework of thinking, in which we are looking for solutions today. However, I think it is fairer to assume that these elections will not take place this year. A consequence of the delay is instability. You referred to this and it is clear from the situation on the ground. There is a generation of younger unemployed who have not yet seen an ounce of Kabila's five yards. This may lead to a Congolese Spring, to which reference has already been made. The instability will therefore increase. The current economic conditions cannot guarantee peace, quite the contrary. That is why I believe that, outside the traditional pattern of thinking, we need to identify possible scenarios if the elections are not to take place. Of course, there is a need for funding. Also, we could now find all the pieces together to make what is not possible possible possible. However, let us think proactively about solutions based on the no selection scenario. I believe that we should be pragmatic about postponing the elections, which should be negotiable. In this context, it is appropriate to provide for a transit period with the opposition and the majority. The only step Kabila can take is a step aside. He needs to be convinced to let go. The situation today is that, as long as there are no elections, the Constitution stipulates that he stays on as President. That is enshrined in the Constitution. If no elections are possible, according to the Constitution he will automatically stay on as president. We must therefore convince him to deal with this in a different way. We cannot assume that the only alternative to Kabila is the Hague. In that case, he will certainly not let go, which would only escalate things. Firstly, do you think it is possible to engage in talks with the international community and with the political partners in Congo to discuss an exit for Kabila? Secondly, do you not think it would be better for us to take de facto account of the postponement of the elections? Thirdly, how do you see Belgium's policy for the whole region in the longer term? I do not need to remind you that the coalition agreement has put forward a proposal on this subject. Mr. Secretary, let go of the current scenario. Is that a viable option for you, or should we continue to look at things, wait and be ready for what will not come?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u25	Minister, your answers to my questions were quite complete. Of course, it is still advisable to continue to believe in the dialogue. There is no other way at the moment. Now we cannot start to threaten with sanctions. The trial is too young for that. The dialogue between the various actors at regional and international level still needs to be given a chance. Mr Luykx refers to what will happen if there are no elections. It can be predicted that this will come about, because the people themselves are aware of this from the hearings on Central Africa and the Congo in recent weeks. The population is sensitized and recognises democratic values, but the problem is that the political elite do not always believe in those democratic values. There is clearly a tension between the political leaders and the people, who really want there to be democratically elected leaders. I agree with Mr Luykx that there will be problems if this does not happen in a procedural manner. If there are no elections in November, the question is what will happen during the transit period. What scenarios can be written together with the international community? There will be a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in the coming week. What will be on the agenda? How do the other countries view the events in Congo? What position will you defend there in relation to the current situation in Congo? You are also talking about a positive sanction. If progress is made in the process, Belgium will provide funding. That's a better way than a negative sanctioning. Of course, there are also human rights violations against which there is a need for tough action. You say that people must be held individually responsible if human rights are to be violated. How do you see that in concrete terms? Does it mean that people will be listed and that, for example, there will be an entry ban for them? How will you deal with human rights violations? In this respect, there must be a tougher approach than in the direction of the democratic process. A relatively young democracy such as the Congo must be given the opportunity to grow in it. We must also accompany that country on the international stage, allow transits and ensure that its population is not affected. How will you deal with human rights violations? Did you mention in your contacts the unjustified arrests of young people, among others, following demonstrations? How did the political leaders react to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u26	In relation to the electoral process, I understand that there are various arguments on both sides about the difficulties, the agendas, the timetables, the number of months needed to complete a file, the problem of funding. Indeed, the parameters may vary, but I think everyone recognizes that there is a problem in the electoral calendar. So I'd like to hear your opinion, minister. Will it be possible to organise the elections in Congo according to the planned agenda? Is it feasible this year, yes or no? I think the question is quite unavoidable today and I would have liked to have your answer on this. In relation to Mr Katumbi, I take note of your answer. Mr. Katumbi applied to the consulate for protection. He got it and left the same day, you said I think. I am simply surprised that Mr Katumbi's version differs from yours, since he told him that he had not asked Belgium for protection. Can you explain this discrepancy? Then, in relation to the Constitutional Court. She said that until the elections were held, Mr Kabila would remain president. I hear Mr Luykx saying that we must not respect the Constitution or at least the interpretation of the Constitution by the Constitutional Court. I'd like your opinion on that. Do you think that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be respected or not? I believe that Belgium has an important role to play in the Congo to avoid violence in that country, to ensure that elections are held within realistic but reasonable deadlines, to ensure that human rights are protected. But on the other hand, I fear a tendency, which I hear from some colleagues, to believe that the Congo is still a Belgian colony and that we have everything to say about it. No one has said it as such, of course, but it is underlying. I am a little afraid that we will take a stand, that certain powers, including Belgium, will vote in the place of Congolese voters and support one side rather than another. This brings us back to the question of sanctions and to the debate on Israel. I feel that some colleagues would be more quick to impose economic sanctions against the Congo than against Israel. The Contact Group meeting was held in Stockholm on 4 May. He's reported by American journalist Jason Stern. This is interesting because a number of Western countries are meeting to discuss the future of the Congo without the Congolese. Is that appropriate? Beyond this question, it appears, according to the journalist, that there would be a divergence of appreciation between the European participants - Belgium would have participated in the Stockholm meeting - and the United States. If Belgium has participated, can you tell us more about the position it has defended and the nature of these differences?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u27	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that I do not feel, Mr Van Hees, that we are playing the Tintins in the Congo about the three countries with which we have had colonial or protective relations. On the contrary, we tend to walk more on eggs so that we cannot be blamed for an attitude of former colonizers. As Mr Crusnière said, at European level, Belgians are often expected to give impetus. That's right. I don't think this is about neo-colonialism, as you fear or hope for. Minister, thank you for your presentation and I admire you, because making two trips as difficult as the one to Israel and Palestine and the one to the Congo in such a short time is not nothing. You're still alive among us. I thank you for what you have said; it will allow me not to mention certain things that you have already answered. It is clear that the economic and social context that you mentioned at the end of your presentation is particularly important. The decline in raw materials is terribly heavy for this young country whose demography is important. It is far from Congo's time with its 20 million inhabitants, because it has 80 million today. It is an element that does not facilitate things, it is an euphemism, for the functioning of this Congolese society. At the same time, this element can be a point of support to ensure that the regime accepts certain things that it would not accept if the situation were in nirvana, which is far from the case at this time. I would like to take this opportunity to talk about a subject that has not been mentioned by anyone. When we had hearings, this issue was strongly raised. That is the problem of China in the Congo. China's behavior is a bit special. Although it is dear to Mr. Van Hees, this communist country has an attitude in the Congo that is closer to the worst of the Manesterian capitalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u29	But no, you do not represent China, but rather Korea!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u30	Stop provoking Mr Van Hees, otherwise I will have to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u31	I beg my colleague, boring like me, to apologize. I did not want to attack him personally, but rather his political system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u32	If we make this kind of rapprochement, I think that shows some weakness in the argumentation itself. In any case, the PTB defines its line for Belgium and not for elsewhere. Personally, unlike other colleagues in the House, I have no interest in China, no praline plant in China like some. I'm serene. I'm not going to name it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u33	Mr Flahaux, continue and please do not provoke anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u34	I'll try to pay attention, Mr. President. What I was saying, and no one should take for him, is that China, in the Congo and more generally in Africa, has an attitude that is more than neocolonialist. The Chinese arrive, do the razzia and then leave and so much worse for the future of the country. The situation is apparently changing, since there have been attacks by Chinese traders in Kinshasa and this has led to meetings at the highest level in Beijing. They may have understood that their behaviour in the Congo led to reactions among the Congolese population. I will take this opportunity to make a point that has not yet been made. This is the rise of Islamism in the Congo, particularly in North-East Kivu. This Islamism is fuelled by the very difficult economic situation and, moreover, by the unwitting missions of the United Nations. As there are Muslim soldiers in the UN mission, which is normal, mosques have been built, which helps spread Islamism. I obviously make the difference between Islam and Islamism. This is an important point and must encourage us to put an end to the possible future fire, as we see in northern Nigeria and elsewhere. To return to the electoral process, my colleagues and you, Minister, have addressed the issue from all sides. What election must be held first, even if CENI had decided that local elections should precede legislative and presidential elections? You're right, too. The organisation of municipal elections in this vast country, which makes Belgium 80 times, will be particularly difficult to set up. It is clear that the basis of everything is civil status. There is no accurate knowledge of the population of voting age or of the population that is not yet of voting age. There is a risk of reviving the current problems in the next election, namely that not all those who have become older voters since 2011 will find themselves in the files. A census of the entire population must be repeated from the age of one day to the age of one hundred. It is also particularly important for women because in Congo as elsewhere, they sometimes have difficulties in being known and recognized, if I may say so. During the hearings, we were very surprised to hear that in 2011, it was quickly necessary to change the law to allow women to be candidates, because otherwise they had to have the permission of their husbands, like what we knew at home until the 1960s so that women could open a bank account. As for funding for this work, it must be possible to do so in time and timing faster than the 16 months in question. What will be decisive is the specifications of the standards that will be imposed before entrusting this work to one firm or another. I believe that there will be a lot of goodwill and cooperation in the leadership of both the population and the various institutions, since these elections are particularly popular and demanded by the population. As my colleague Crusnière said, that is a way. For the moment, this prospect of the elections means that we do not have "revolt" situations. But if tomorrow's announcement was made that the elections should be postponed, it would create a great climate of frustration. We first mentioned EUR 30 million and then EUR 50 million of aid which Belgium is prepared to provide, although, during the hearings, we were told that a budget of EUR 140 million had been released by the Congolese government. I also wanted to mention all the key issues that prevent elections in a climate of peace, that is all that is happening in the East where there are still armed groups that may be – I am careful since my colleague's altercation – financed or helped by a country small by its size but large by its military experience. In this context, it is important that this issue be definitively pacified. There are also Ugandan rebels. Beyond the fact that the situation in the East is not stable, there is also everything that this creates as totally unacceptable situations for women because rape is practised there as a weapon of war, which is particularly unacceptable. Minister, how do you perceive the real involvement of the African Union in the Republic of the Congo? The African Union should really be able to act in a much larger way, as it also helps to combat the arguments of neocolonialism. Do you share this analysis? Finally, on the issue of Belgians in the Congo, have you had the opportunity to meet their representatives? How do they feel about the evolution of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I would like to share a reflection on the need to organise the elections and all the risks involved in failing to organize them as soon as possible. President Kabila made a strong blow by violating the Constitution by adding a supplementary mandate to his mandate. I had the opportunity to speak with several Congolese deputies, mainly from the opposition. They are very interested in meeting us and probably even more interested in meeting you, Minister. These Members have told me of a number of points of reflection. I'd like to go back. Have you been confronted with the solutions? After President Kabila's coup de force to want to remain a mandate in place, it is believed that he wants above all to avoid being prosecuted in the event of the abandonment of his mandate. This fear of prosecution alone would justify the actions of President Kabila, which are reprehensible and unconstitutional. They also seriously weaken this country that does not need it. Several Members referred to proposals that could protect some African presidents. This has happened in other African countries with a more or less democratic transition and relative peace. Minister, have you been informed of these ideas? Has dialogue with the opposition been possible? Is the opposition grouped? Is there hope that it can be placed behind a common project? What about the Members of the majority who are known to have given some thought in this direction? I will not dwell on the funding or the opportunity to be able to still hope to organise them within the deadlines set. The deadline being the end of November 2016, it seems to me, personally, very difficult to achieve. Other colleagues have made many other arguments on this subject and I will therefore stick to this little reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u36	Does any of the Members of this House still wish to speak? Mr. Luykx, have you forgotten something?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u37	Minister, I think Mrs Jadin's speech is interesting and it is in line with what I said earlier. Of course, there must be room for Kabila to step aside. There have already been proposals on this in the Congolese Parliament, so the debate is also taking place there. This does not mean that the Constitution should be violated, but that there should be an agreement on a temporary distance, so that there will be a transitional period which will allow enough time to organise elections. I just wanted to add to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have a political question, but a purely informative one. If you'll allow it, I'll ask that question from the chair. If I have understood you correctly, Minister, you say that we must prevent any risk of violence. We all agree with that. We must accompany the electoral process, knowing that we will not be able to respect the deadlines. This puts us somewhat in the scenario from 2003 to 2006. We hope to be able to establish a dialogue with the opposition. That is a possible approach and I think it is sensible and worth considering. My question is this. Did I understand correctly from the international press when I read that the Anglo-Saxon countries, not to mention the United States and the United Kingdom, are in favour of a more strict and more principled attitude and are even considering declaring sanctions against Congo on the grounds that President Kabila does not renounce the third mandate? How united is the international community in its approach to the explosive situation that is now developing in Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u39	Mr President, I will answer a few more specific questions, including the electoral process. Perhaps we can also follow a reasoning out of the box, as Mr Luykx and other fellow Members point out. First, I will answer some specific questions. As Mrs Van Hoof said, sanctions have been mentioned in connection with the arrests of young people during demonstrations. There were other arrests. I have said that we want a correct approach. I follow the reasoning of personal and individual responsibility, while different rules are incorrectly applied in Congo. We must therefore follow up on these arrests. There are several possibilities for this. We could easily respond with a statement or a conviction. It is also possible that we may issue sanctions. However, other serious reactions are possible. We can respond at different levels. We are thinking of all possible levels, but we are thinking of facts on the ground. There is a discussion on this within the European Union, with the African Union and with other partners. As is always the case, we do not always have a common position before the sitting. So far, however, I have seen that it has been possible to come forward with a common position, with the partners, within the European Union and between the European Union and the African Union. Day after day and week after week, however, it will be more difficult to stay on the same line. I have already said this about European meetings: it is not strange to have different opinions before the meeting, before a position is taken within, for example, the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Europe or the Contact Group with all partners. So far, our country has repeated the same reaction over and over again. Why? We were very ready and clear. For us, there is an individual responsibility of all leaders, not only of the government but sometimes of the opposition, not to use force. There is also an individual responsibility of the bosses of the different security services. It is also very important to say that. What the consequences may be, everyone knows that different degrees are possible. Let me give you an example. Burundi is a completely different story, with a lot of violence, with many refugees. There is now an investigation of an international criminal court. There is a very wide range of possibilities available. As far as dialogue with the opposition is concerned, I have seen almost everyone in the opposition. I met the G7, the Dynamics of the Opposition, the UDPS in individualook andere partners, zelfs binnen from G7 of andere groepen. I must tell Mr Crusnière that in the dialogue section, for example, I cannot speak on behalf of the opposition, otherwise it would be of no use to have direct contact with all these politicians. They obviously say things that they won't be able to say in the same way publicly. But the availability for dialogue is all the more strong as the dialogue is precise and short-lived. I have felt well that for a number of opponents – the UDPS has rather voted in favour; there is an approach that consists of thinking that Etienne Tshisekedi might even come to participate in a dialogue in Kinshasa – there is a certain willingness to enter into a dialogue if it concerns specific elements relating to the organization of the elections and the electoral process. What a number of opposition members fear is a dialogue that would be the beginning of a long-term transition within the Congo. I now turn to specific aspects that have been raised. Mr. Flahaux spoke of China's behaviour. We are trying to work with our Chinese colleagues and to ensure that there are joint operations, including economic ones, between European, American and Chinese companies, to try to find formulas that are more compatible with the rules that we are trying to impose on ourselves in actions in China, but it is not only in the Congo. The African continent is highly prospected by our Chinese colleagues, with a very, very strong presence in many sectors and with methods of financing and sending Chinese labour on site. There is a whole series of approaches that are particularly impressive and for which we must try to see how behaviour evolves and how it gradually becomes part of a common approach with the international community. However, in the political process itself, we do not see a decisive influence, for the time being, of this approach, except – as I always recall – in the Security Council, we must obviously have the support of all the partners and China is part of it. I mentioned the subject of Islamization in the Congo. This isn't the first time we've talked about it. I had already done so on previous trips to the East. There are also discussions with MONUSCO. But to be concrete, it is not the Muslim presence in the Congo that poses a problem. This is a new phenomenon, which we must observe. It is sometimes linked, it is true, to certain components of MONUSCO. But what is more worrying – and we know that elsewhere – is the development of a number of rather radical, rather fundamentalist currents, often financed from outside, including in the immediate vicinity of Kinshasa, in peripheral areas of Kinshasa. I spoke with the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boshab, and his services. Without going into the details, there was the case of a Belgian-Congolese foreign fighter jihadist who went to Syria and was killed there, I think. This is a phenomenon that needs to be listened to because it is linked to the economic and social difficulties the country is facing today. There may be a craze for this kind of approach. Not that there is concern about the presence of Muslim currents in a country such as the Congo – religious freedom is obviously at the root of this – but attention must be paid to currents that would be more fundamentalist. As regards the situation of Belgians on the spot, I have had the opportunity to meet representatives of the Belgian community and the concern is related both to the socio-economic situation, which makes a number of activities on the ground complicated, but also to the political process, which weighs on the possibilities of developing activity. But there are still links within the framework of the presence in the Congo that go beyond purely economic ties. I have always been struck by the fact that there is always a story related to the presence of Belgian investors or economic operators on Congolese territory. This probably explains the fact that, even in very complex times, they try to stay there. Even today, there is a willingness to try to develop a number of projects. I would like to return to the two more fundamental points on the electoral side. I'll tell Mr. Van Hees that on Stockholm, Belgium's position has been very clear. I explained it here and it was also explained at the contact group meeting in Stockholm on 4 May. It is obvious that at the end of this group, the point of view is always a common point of view of the partners. That there are different sensitivities is happy, as in all the meetings we have on the international stage. There will be discussions in the coming weeks to find out what reactions will be given in the light of developments in the situation. For the time being, emphasis is being placed on the holding of elections and on the issue of respect for an open, democratic public space and respect for human rights. But concerns are present in the two developments that can occupy the Congolese terrain today. As far as Mr Katumbi is concerned, before saying that we do not agree with him and me, at least listen to what I am saying! You used the word "protection" twice. That's not what I said. I simply referred to the fact that he came to the consulate in the morning and wanted to stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u41	Convincing you, it's been a long time since I tried again. I didn't even try to convince you to come to the Ministry of Finance when I was head of this department. You didn't want to work there, it was your choice; you were on political leave. Perhaps we could have fought fraud together, rather than simply publishing books.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u43	We might have had you on board one day to fight fraud, rather than just having you publish books on the subject. There is a shortage of public servants, but when public servants refuse to participate in the work, it is obviously difficult to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u44	... half-time. Excuse me, but between a lost half-time and thousands of jobs lost in Finance,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u45	I can explain it to you more simply: when this part-time worker devotes his other half-time to complain that there are not enough officials in the department,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u46	May I suggest that we stick to the subject of the sitting? It's hard enough as it is. Let's stay with Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u47	Mr President, from time to time, things have to be said, whether you like it or not. That being said, as far as Mr Katumbi is concerned, first listen to what I am saying before saying that he and I do not agree. He actually came to the consulate. I got it online, I got the consul and the ambassador. I called the Congolese Prime Minister, who reminded me a little later after talking to the President. I was able to reassure, at least on the process, Mr. Katumbi. That's what happened. You will have noticed it on Monday, since, despite everything that was written, after eight hours of hearing, he went out free in Lubumbashi. We continue to monitor the situation. I will continue to follow her closely personally. I'll probably still be in touch with him. In any case, I have had enough contact and interviews with him, as with other members of what can now be called opposition. I now come back to the two points I wanted to raise. The first is the election. As far as the electoral process is concerned, I also answer the question of a different reasoning than the ordinary game, out of the box. We are now trying to reach an election. That is our first task. I won't say anything about any other options. In order to achieve elections, different elements are necessary. Firstly, the CENI must do its job and draw up the new electorate list. It is true that there are between 6 and 8 million new voters. In any case, a new electoral list must be drawn up. The CENI has done a good job. I have heard from the President of the CENI that it is possible to work with a firm. There were some tests at the beginning of May. I hope it is possible to conclude a contract with some firm that can draw up an electoral list. This work is funded. The government pays 30 million a month to the CENI. Although I feared not, it was also the case in March, the President of the CENI said. So it is perfectly possible to start with that. A second problem is the calendar. I had a conversation with the president of the CENI. According to him, it is possible, in accordance with the Constitution, to convoke the voters by mid-September. That's the normal calendar. On what date exactly that will be, something is different, but it is possible to start work now. I do not know if it will be possible, but the President says that elections can be held by September. He can send an invitation to all voters. He said that very clearly and clearly. On what exact date that will be, I don't know. Mr Crusnière, you recalled your contacts on the spot. For the moment, there was a period of sixteen months that began at the beginning of this year, they claim to have already won a month. I think we can shorten it. I also think that we can imagine financing of a smaller scale than what is mentioned very often. However, it is obvious to everyone that the date of November for the elections will not be possible, unless everyone agrees that these elections will be convened on the basis of the existing files, therefore on the basis of a large number of new majors who could not participate in the vote. Out of a population of 85 million, leaving 6 to 8 million out of the electoral process is also quite dangerous. Does that mean that we are ready to imagine a long-term delay? I have made it clear to all my interlocutors, including the Chair, that a delay can only be accepted if it is short-lived and is very clearly announced at the outset of the process. If we know that the process is under way, that voters are summoned and that a date is set with a file that is recovering, I think we can move forward, including with the international community. But that's not the case at the moment. What elections? Personally, I wish that all elections could be held. But what is important is the presidential election, the legislative election and probably the provincial election that triggers the presence in the Senate. The Senate has been here for years, with legitimacy that is not much greater than that of a Speaker who would remain in office without an election. We must keep an eye on it. For the local election, it would be the best way to regenerate a democracy by having many elected representatives throughout the country. But I remain skeptical about the ability to organize it because there are other contingencies. You talked about the census, but there is even the distribution of seats. For the presidential election, the process can be triggered and the election organized; for the parliamentary elections, the seats must be allocated by constituency, which requires a census of the population by constituency. If we go to the local level, then we find ourselves in an even more complicated file work. But we can very well set a moment, nothing prevents us from returning with this logic of date. For funding, I'll join you. There were some possible announcements of funding, including from Belgium. Our budget for development cooperation provided funding for the local elections, but we have always said: why not also for other elections? This is also the case for other countries and international organisations. However, in order to do something, we must be sure that the electoral process will start. We are prepared to take an initiative, but not by financing an operation without even knowing whether the process will really be put in place. That is why I say that the Monusco has been sensitized and is willing to fulfil its role. I believe that the international community is, too. The Congolese Government actually finances a budget in monthly instalments in preparation for the elections. In any case, something has to start now. I said on the spot: without the start of the electoral process, no one will have confidence in the process. I have also told the President. Is it possible to think of other slopes? For example, Mr Luykx wonders what we can do without elections and thus without a new President. Firstly, we must think about proper application of the Constitution. The question is what is possible in the region. It is not always very pleasant, but in several other countries there was an amendment of the constitution or a decision of a constitutional court. I will not repeat what was possible in Burundi for a third or non-third mandate on the basis of a response from the Constitutional Court. There was a referendum in Brazzaville. There are constitutional provisions in Angola, for example. I've been to dos Santos, who's been president for a few years. However, the 2010 Constitution is very clear: he can go to the elections for a second new mandate. For example, in Rwanda, a process is under way to change the constitution or to draw up a new constitution. In Congo, however, we must ask for proper application without any modification or modification of the process. The best solution for the whole region is therefore to apply the text correctly. As far as President Kabila himself is concerned, I know that a question is being asked of the Constitutional Court, but in any case the question relates to how Article 70 of the Constitution is to be applied. This article is in fact based on a provision existing in the United States: the President remains in place pending the assumption of office by the President-elect. This is based on the assumption that there is an election and that for a period after the election, arrangements must be made before the President can take office. It seems that in the United States, it's related to distances. At first, in the first elections, it was necessary to be able to travel to Washington to take up his duties. This was not done by plane and not in a day. However, the text does not cover the case where there is no election. The text does not say: either there are elections and there is a new president, or there is none and we continue. This is called slippage, and it is obviously not the solution that can be adopted internationally. The reasoning is clear: elections must be held, possibly with a slight delay. Given a slight delay, it may be possible to reach an agreement with everyone, including the members of the opposition. A longer term is actually a third mandate. It makes no sense for the international community to go in this direction. A few trips to Congo ago, I asked the opposition and the majority to consider a statute for a former president. They did. There are texts from the opposition and from the majority, with different possible rules. We must be sure that it is possible for a former president to play a role, to obtain a certain security, to have resources. Without it, a real democratic transition is impossible. There are discussions on this. Are we supposed to think about other slopes? I will not say anything about that today, Mr Luykx. I am trying with my colleagues in the European Union to pay a great deal of attention to human rights and the democratic process at the next meeting, but also to a real start to an electoral process. That might be possible, or not. In the second case, we will introduce other elements and a different reasoning for Congo. It is true that there is a response from the Constitutional Court, which states that it is possible to proceed with the President, even without elections in November. Either an electoral process is launched within a short period of time, or we are in a totally different line of reasoning. I have always said on the spot that without an electoral process I fear many difficult times in Congo. That, Mr. President, is what I can say today. We must remain very attentive to the process. There is also a need to keep in touch with all Congolese political actors, the majority as opposed. It is all the more important that, as in other countries, it is not always simple when elections are approaching to know who is in the majority and who is in the opposition. When we talk about the G7, it is made up of parties that were in the majority after the last national consultation, which have since emerged to be in the opposition. I have also met with former prime ministers of Marshal Mobutu, who are now opposition leaders who are very committed to human rights and democracy. I also had the opportunity to meet with former senior officials during the presidency of Kabila, either at the head of the National Assembly or at the head of an important province, Katanga. But it's normal, as we approach a presidential election, there are movements in the majority as well as in the opposition. We must therefore keep in touch with all these components of Congolese political life, insisting that the process begin. If it does not start in the coming weeks – I had set the goal of going to the Congo before the summer months – if we let this summer pass without anything starting formally, we take a very great risk in the evolution of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We are following this minute per minute, but Mr Katumbi is free. It is located outside the buildings of the parquet. After a few hours of hearing, he could go back home. That is also a positive fact, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u48	Are there any other colleagues who wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u49	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his further reply. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the importance of avoiding drifting and of saying that these elections are unorganizable. It's dangerous because it's in this trap that the power in place is trying to take us. Having this speech and looking for other solutions, no! We must remain firm and respect the Constitution, respect the deadlines. Of course, I am aware that it will be difficult, Mrs Jadin, to set up this process. The problem is that if you say it clearly already, you get into their game and you absolutely have to avoid it. This is why, at the level of the electoral register, funding is there to organise it as foreseen by the CENI public procurement, but it is known that this will take time. I propose to go much further, to supplement this funding to go faster. The deadline can be shortened from four to six months, people from MONUSCO told us! If we succeed in launching this process, we can maintain a calming in the leadership of the opposition and of the population by proposing a clear timetable, with a possible postponement of a few months, but not two years. I invite you to be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u50	To be clear, the need to move towards a process that would do everything possible to organize the elections in a timely manner is our wish to all and our efforts must go in that direction. We are all aware of the difficulty! I would like to adjust my remarks if there has been a lack of understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u51	To return to the proposal for tranche funding, its advantage is to be able to set targets and see if they are achieved before continuing. It has at least the merit of starting the process. I would like to have an answer that you have not given me, Minister, in relation to the position of the Belgian army. If everything goes as planned, as MONUSCO proposes, if there is a clear framework and timetable, is there a possibility that Belgian Defence will contribute to logistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the interesting exchange of views and the additions you have given on the state of affairs, as the CENI has communicated to you. The CENI must be able to do its job. The elections must continue. I am not arguing for a postponement, but I am afraid that we need to take the time frame more flexibly. Is it true that people are thinking about a possible statute for ex-presidents so that they do not fearfully hold on to their duties in order not to be denounced after their resignation or to be dismissed? I welcome this debate, which has shed some light on the complicated situation in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u53	I would like to add a personal comment. I hear about everyone here expressing their belief that the current regime is committed to a blur, to stay in power for longer. I note that our minister and diplomacy are trying to organise elections as soon as possible, although it will not be until November. What's our leverage? How can we force that regime to cooperate? I don't see that lever. The Members who attended the hearings two weeks ago remember that Mr Kabamba, Mr Vlassenroot and Mr Hoebeke delivered the message that no one has taken control of the regime. The neighbouring countries do not want to help because some of these presidents have already passed more than two deadlines themselves. The international community is divided and has other concerns. We do not have any leverage to force the regime to go along with us. I'm curious. I hope it's possible. I hope it works. However, I very much wonder if we will be able to get them on that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u54	I have the same fear as you, but I have to do something. So I'm trying to do something. It is clear that we are not sure of the success of our diplomatic actions. However, it is now the only way to reach elections as soon as possible. As far as the Defense Department is concerned, it's always possible. We will see what possibilities there are in relation to MONUSCO's and other partners' requests for assistance. We can still imagine... For the moment, the Defence has two or three ongoing activities, both abroad and in Belgium. We will see from now on the organisation of the elections if we can free up some means, but I have not yet seen that we really need, for national tasks, our C-130s on the ground. We have already demonstrated in the past that we are ready to help, but to do so, a process should be under way and needs should be beyond MONUSCO's very, very important capacities on the ground. But for the moment there is no debate, no preparation for this kind of situation, but we are not opposed to responding to a request addressed to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u55	Mr President, Minister, recently Amnesty International published its report on the situation of human rights in the world. The observation is very dark. Many States are attacking the freedoms and institutions created to defend them. This is particularly the case in Angola, where the situation remains problematic and where many human rights violations persist. Indeed, the authorities used defamation laws and state security legislation to harass, arrest and incarcerate persons who had only peacefully expressed their views, and publicly rejected the UN recommendations on the country's human rights record. Minister, how do you look at this situation? What information do you have about the evolution of human rights in Angola? Are you discussing the state of progress of democratic reforms and the state of human rights in Angola in your bilateral relations? What are the possibilities for dialogue with this country and the attitude of Belgian diplomacy in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u56	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, the fall in oil prices and the slowdown in economic growth in Angola have fuelled social frustrations and increased criticism of the government. As I said earlier, I was in Luanda before going to Kinshasa. As a result, there are several violations of human rights by the authorities that are trying to strengthen their control over society, particularly in the run-up to the 2017 presidential elections. The situation of tension is also linked to economic and social difficulties. These developments are closely followed by our embassy in Luanda. The issue of human rights, which is a priority in Belgian foreign policy, is addressed through bilateral contacts at various levels, including through this embassy, in interaction with the Angolan authorities and civil society. During my visit to Luanda, I was able to discuss these aspects with my counterpart. In terms of human rights, we are also part of a multilateral framework, above all in the European Union's actions. The fate of the fifteen plus two activists was thus addressed by the ambassadors, including that of our country, with various Angolan ministers. I also talked to my counterpart. This topic was also discussed during the EU Ministerial Dialogue with Angola on 19 November 2015 in Luanda. The Union had already protested against the conviction of activists to severe penalties on 28 March. In her statement, she expressed her reservations about the legality of the trial and the principle of proportionality of sentences. The activists' lawyers announced that they would bring an appeal to the Supreme Court, which is being done. I would point out that Belgium took an active part in the last Universal Periodic Review of Angola by the Human Rights Council in Geneva in November 2014. The attention paid by both the European Union and Belgium to the incidents that have occurred has, in any case, contributed to an increased awareness on the part of the Angolan authorities of the negative perception by the international community in this regard. It can reasonably be considered that this has had a positive influence on the position of the authorities vis-à-vis human rights. But we will continue to monitor the situation closely. While reaffirming the independence of judicial proceedings, I have heard on several occasions that appeal procedures could lead to situations that are somewhat less painful than those we have witnessed at first instance. I can reassure you of our willingness to follow the situation closely through the embassy, as I had the opportunity to do myself in the contacts I had in Luanda before going to Kinshasa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u57	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u58	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, in March 2014 and March 2015, once in the Senate, again in the House, we discussed together the catastrophic working conditions in which foreign workers on Qatari yards operate to build infrastructure that will be used for the 2022 World Cup. However, in July 2012, the House of Representatives voted to approve an investment agreement with Qatar. This treaty was then presented by the Di Rupo government as a way to help several Belgian companies win certain markets. Article 3 of the Agreement provides that "the Contracting Parties shall reaffirm their obligations as members of the International Labour Organization, as well as their commitments under the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Labour and its follow-up. The Contracting Parties shall ensure that such universally recognized principles and rights of workers are recognized and protected in their national legislation." Moreover, § 4 of the 2012 Agreement provides that "at the request of one of the Contracting Parties, the other Party shall accept that the representatives of their Governments meet for the purpose of consultation on any matter falling within the scope of this Article". On 31 March 2016, Amnesty International published a report denouncing again the exploitation of migrant workers rebuilding the Khalifa stadium, which is to host a semi-final. Six Construct, a subsidiary of the Belgian Besix Group, would be one of the two main companies responsible for overseeing the renovation of the stadium. According to the NGO: "Although Qatar has promised to strengthen the protection of migrant workers" – you had already told me about it here in March 2015 – "it has not sufficiently reformed the hiring system that exploits them. It is their employer who decides whether they can leave the country or change jobs. The excessive control exercised by employers over their employees exposes them to exploitation, including forced labour. The confiscation of passports, refusal to submit return visas and late payment of wages are just a few examples of the abuses suffered by migrant workers." Hence, minister, my questions. Will you finally activate the safeguard clauses of the treaty linking Qatar and the BLEU? When did your services become aware of this critical situation involving a Belgian company? What initiatives have you taken and when to prevent this society from the problematic situation of workers' rights in Qatar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u59	Minister, in April 2014, the House adopted a motion for a resolution, of which I was one of the sponsors, concerning the organization of the World Cup of Football by Qatar in 2022. This resolution called for respect for fundamental human rights and decent working conditions on construction sites. I also asked you several questions about this at the time. Currently, the working conditions for workers recruited to renew sports infrastructure and the numerous violations of social rights with regard to late payment of wages and housing conditions are problematic, mainly with regard to workers working on the renovation of the Khalifa International Stadium. The significant reforms of labour law expected, in particular as a result of pressure from the international community, have not yet taken place. Following the evidence provided by Amnesty International, it appears that many workers are being confiscated by their employers. A migrant worker who no longer has a passport can no longer leave Qatar freely and is more likely to be subjected to forced labour. FIFA had also committed itself to establishing a system of due diligence to prevent and identify any human rights violations, which had not yet been done. Amnesty notes that, for the past five years, FIFA has not taken any measures to prevent workers from being exploited. She merely recalled some of the measures taken by the Supreme Committee. The absence of any real action by FIFA regarding the exploitation of workers makes thousands of people employed on the construction sites of the future World Cup today at risk of serious human rights violations. Minister, what has been your follow-up to the House's adoption of this resolution, particularly in your bilateral relations? What concrete measures have FIFA, the Supreme Committee, the Qatari government taken since then? In my last question on this subject, you mentioned a reform that has been overdue for more than a year regarding the obligation to pay wages, the prohibition on confiscating passports and the possibility for an employee to change employer. However, these shortcomings are still present. What about it? What steps has the Government of Qatar taken in this regard? What is the scope? How are they applied? Finally, how does Belgian diplomacy intend to call on the Supreme Committee to review its approach to the monitoring and application of these standards relating to the living conditions of workers in order to take into account, as a matter of urgency, the smallest subcontracting companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u60	Mr Hellings, Mr Blanchart, I had the opportunity to read Amnesty International's 30 March report on working conditions at construction sites in Qatar. We have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions in this House and we will continue to pay attention to this situation and, above all, to be active at different levels. Whenever the opportunity arises in the context of bilateral or multilateral relations, we support the question of respect for workers' rights in Qatar. In bilateral talks with our Qatari interlocutors, this daily work is carried out by our diplomatic network, including with Belgian companies active in Qatar. This was further done in the wake of Amnesty International's report. Several field visits have already been made by representatives of our embassy. We strive to translate this concern into positive actions in multilateral forums. Belgium is active in the Human Rights Council, where we took part in the last universal periodic review of Qatar. We made two recommendations on the situation of migrant workers. These recommendations were accepted by Qatar We also invited Belgian companies in Qatar to participate in the United Nations Regional Forum "Business and Human Rights" held in Doha on 19 and 20 April. Similarly, our embassy in Doha invited them to participate on 9 May in the event organised by the European Union in Qatar on the occasion of the European Workers' Welfare Day. In a previous exchange I had with you on the same subject, I stressed that it would be important to see how some of the announced reforms would translate into practice. I had suggested that this should be done in the context of on-site visits and that the International Labour Organization should be involved in the follow-up of these initiatives. Since then, in accordance with a decision of the ILO Governing Council, a high-level tripartite mission of the ILO visited Qatar from 1 to 5 March to assess the country's progress in terms of working conditions. Our compatriot Luc Cortebeeck participated in this mission as Vice-President. Qatar was asked to submit a report for November 2016 on the follow-up to the evaluation and in March 2017 on the implementation of the new Act No. 21 of 2015 which entered into force in December 2016 and relating to the entry, exit and residence of expatriate workers. The question of sending a committee of inquiry was therefore postponed to the March 2017 session. Belgium will continue to follow this initiative closely. The advisability of asking the Qatari authorities for further consultations on this subject on the basis of the Treaty between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and Qatar should be assessed in the context of existing initiatives at ILO and other multilateral organisations. In particular, we must ask ourselves whether such consultations will really add new elements to the debate and improve conditions on the ground. Depending on the developments in the reports following the ILO visit, we will examine the extent to which a complementary initiative should be taken within the framework of the BLEU Treaty. What I can already tell you is that contacts have been made with the Belgian companies which might be concerned, and in particular the one which may be concerned with the construction site which you mention. What we have been told is that no worker in this company has been questioned by Amnesty. But it is very likely that there are a number of comments concerning subcontractors, and as I have pointed out in the previous debates and as I point out to companies each time, they are obviously also obliged to take responsibility for subcontracting organised by themselves. However, I repeat, we will see if there are any complementary initiatives to be taken beyond what is being done within the framework of the International Labour Organization. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that my services and I will remain vigilant with regard to the respect of workers' rights in Qatar. The 2022 World Cup offers an opportunity to bring about positive and lasting changes in this area. This is also the ambition of the Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy in charge of preparing for the World Cup. Amnesty International's report also shows that the mechanisms put in place by the Supreme Committee, as well as by the companies involved, are working, since abuses were stopped long before the publication of the document. The Amnesty International report also points out that companies, as well as FIFA and the political authorities in Qatar and the countries from which workers originate, also have an important role to play. In general, Belgium is actively involved in the issue of human and business rights. It is currently finalizing a national action plan within this framework. This means that, on the basis of the exchanges that will take place with Qatar within the framework of the missions organized by the International Labour Organization, we will see whether there is a need for a complementary initiative in the framework of the Treaty of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u61	Mr Blanchart, the clauses that you provided for, on the one hand, in the implementation of the economic agreement of the time of the Di Rupo government and, on the other hand, in your resolution, are of no use, as we have demonstrated today. Mr Minister, Qatar's bad reputation for respect for migrant workers is now taunting a Belgian company. When I asked you the question in March 2015, you asked me to send you the information I had about Belgian companies because you didn't have one. Today, you have it: Besix's reputation is tainted. This is a new political fact, an obvious and long-standing diplomatic problem, and an economic problem. I know that economic diplomacy is dear to you. Yet today a stone has been thrown into our garden. This calls for unilateral action on your part. I take note of the multilateral initiatives taken at the level of the Human Rights Council and ILO. Keep moving in this direction, but you also have the opportunity to act unilaterally by activating this safeguard clause explicitly provided for in the agreement between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and Qatar. The facts are proven. It is now a question of proving that this clause is not a dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me essential to question the Qatari government about the Supreme Committee, which is the body entrusted by the Qatari government to ensure that everything is ready for 2022. Unfortunately, it is primarily concerned with compliance with standards by first-tier companies and not subcontractors, while many migrant workers in subcontractors are generally most at risk. Some of them really live in prison or slavery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u63	Mr Minister, the situation in Egypt is worrying, as the latest Amnesty International report points out. In recent weeks, the Egyptian authorities have summoned human rights workers for interrogation, banned them from travelling and tried to freeze their personal funds and assets of their families. As Amnesty and 12 other organisations stated on 23 March, these measures indicate that the investigation conducted over the past five years into the financing and registration of independent human rights organisations could soon lead to criminal charges and threaten human rights defenders with 25 years in prison. This investigation is the subject of a silent injunction prohibiting local media from reporting on the case. However, Egypt must honour the commitment it made in March 2015 at the end of its universal periodic review before the UN Human Rights Council to respect the free functioning of human rights associations. Does Belgium, as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, intend to take initiatives to protect human rights defenders in Egypt? At the bilateral level, has Belgium addressed or intends to address this worrying situation with the Egyptian authorities? Finally, what measures are being taken by the various international bodies to urge the Egyptian authorities to cease all prosecutions for legitimate human rights activities, to condemn such repression and to oblige Egypt to improve respect for fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u64	Minister, in March 2015, Egypt pledged to the UN Human Rights Council to respect the free functioning of human rights associations. However, in recent weeks, members of these organizations have been summoned for interrogation. They were forbidden to travel and the Egyptian authorities tried to freeze their assets and those of their families. These actions, following the criminal investigation carried out by the Egyptian authorities in recent years on the financing and registration of human rights NGOs, could lead to charges and sentences of 25 years in prison. The media are also ordered to remain silent on this matter. It is understandable that the current government, which has put an end to Mr Morsi's mandate, is seeking to know whether the Muslim Brotherhood is not hiding behind certain associations. But is that really what it is? Indeed, members of these associations have been campaigning for the defence of human rights for many years, such as Ahmed Abdullah, chairman of the board of directors of the Egyptian Commission for Rights and Freedoms (ECRF), whom three plainclothes agents tried to arrest on 9 January. Still receiving threats of arrest on the phone, he is presented by the press, together with Mohamed Lofty, Executive Director of the ECRF, as a threat to national security. Similarly, the authorities had tried to close the El Nadeem centre for the treatment and rehabilitation of victims of violence, a centre which had been working since 1993 to provide psychological support to victims. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what steps have you taken or intend to take, on behalf of Belgium, to get the Egyptian government to stop its policy of repression of NGOs defending human rights and to comply with its commitments to the UN Human Rights Council? What resources do Belgium, as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, intend to use to protect Egyptian NGOs? We know how much it is necessary to prevent the balance from going back on the other side and, finally, fuel the propaganda of the Muslim Brotherhood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I obviously share your concern about the situation of human rights defenders in Egypt. This situation is closely monitored, both at European bilateral level and in international fora. As far as the European Union is concerned, which is the first place where we can make our voice heard and get a number of reactions, it has already taken bilateral steps with Egypt on this subject at the March session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. The European Union had also expressed concern and, in a very recent press release, had insisted that persons detained for expressing their views should be released and that the law on meetings should be brought into line with the Egyptian Constitution itself. Belgium obviously intends to play a particularly important role in the UN Human Rights Council, where we returned as a member at the beginning of this year. In the coming months, the European Union will also develop an update of its policy towards Egypt. I can assure you that we are going to ensure that human rights are central to it. During a bilateral contact last autumn, I had the opportunity to discuss this with my Egyptian counterpart. I'll do it again in the future. It is clear that in the fight against extremism, radicalisation and terrorism, a number of legal instruments must be used, security services must be able to function, but with respect for the rules that protect individual rights, human rights and, in other contexts, privacy. I have already mentioned several times the initiatives we are trying to take in Europe to ensure that this balance is respected. But it must also be done with a number of countries facing important security challenges. I would not like to conclude my reply on Egypt without recalling the tragedies that have just been experienced in the context of terrorism in Sinai. A number of Egyptian law enforcement officials lost their lives in terrorist attacks. At the same time, we will continue to pay particular attention to this human rights concern. The fight against terror must not change in the use of methods that are closer to those that the terrorists themselves want to implement. I also wanted to express this empathy towards a number of Egyptians who, unfortunately, have lost their lives or are suffering today because of terrorist acts that continue to ravage the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u66	Mr Minister, of course I encourage you to remain vigilant with regard to this situation. Of course, there have been dramatic attacks in Egypt, but over the past two years there have been 2,000 cases of enforced disappearances. In the past, only persons associated with Islamist terrorist groups were involved. Today, no one is spared. The authorities have moved from a phase of reaction to Muslim Brotherhood demonstrations to a phase of confinement of anyone who could act against the government. That's the perverse effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic418x.u67	Mr President, I would just like to say that I was convinced by the Minister's reply. I agree with the addition that my colleague has given. Since Belgium is now a member of the Human Rights Council, I know, Minister, that you will follow the situation on a daily or almost daily basis.
