ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the end of January I drew your attention to the discriminatory nature of your so-called social correction measure. Indeed, an effective career of 45 years was required. We had an exchange on this subject, in connection with the compensation for the increase in excise duties and VAT. Recently, you stated that you want to register, for 2018, a minimum pension for all after 20 years of actual work, compared to 30 years today. At present, in order to benefit from the minimum pension, it is necessary to be able to prove a career of at least 30 years, but in a broad sense, i.e. without distinction between days actually provided and similar periods, such as sick leave, unemployment, time credit etc. In your reform, if I understand correctly, you plead to go down the bar to 20 years of actual work. Moving from 30 to 20 is a priori an interesting element, because it is a faster opening of the law; however, the work must have been effective. On this subject, Minister, here are my questions. You announce this as a acquis. Has there been consultation with the social partners? At what stage are you going to include the social partners in this reform project? Perhaps it has already been done. What do they think? On the other hand, as you have said on several occasions, you want to strengthen the work actually done - not to say you refer exclusively to it. But unemployed people, who work part-time or are pre-pensioned, are not always on a voluntary basis. Neglecting these periods of inactivity seems totally antisocial to me. In addition, these people are generally the most disadvantaged. In your various aspects of reform, do you have the will to exclude similar periods in the calculation of years of work? Perhaps you have a nuanced vision, with compensatory measures? After 20 years of actual work, how much minimum pension can a worker expect? Some advertise an amount of about 500 euros per month. Can you confirm that amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u2	Mr Minister, my question is also about the 20 years actually worked that would be taken into account for the calculation of the minimum pension. I base myself on what I have heard in the media. It would be at least 20 years of effective work. How do you see that? How clear has the measure been worked out? Depending on the wording of the words, the result is different. Can the decision create or not a problem of poverty? Is it true that you have plans to improve the conditions for access to the minimum pension? What do they mean in concrete terms? To what extent will you take retroactivity into account? If you decide today that only the 20 years actually worked will be taken into account, then anyone who has a lifetime of 40 worked or treated years will no longer be able to make a correction or make a catch-up operation, for example with regard to time-credit periods or similar. Will you consider the retroactivity? How will you prevent any adjustments being detrimental to women, who have on average more treated periods and who are more likely to work part-time? Is that a problem recognised and how is it addressed? Is it intended that the new scheme for calculating the minimum pension on the basis of 20 years of effective employment will replace the existing system or that both schemes will continue to exist in parallel, phasing out the current scheme? That is not clear to us. I would also like to be more clear about the consequences of the distribution of male/female between the pensioners with 20 years of effective employment. What does this division look like? What is the percentage ratio in terms of sex within the target group that retired last year and this by statute? Can you give it to me? What was the ratio 15 years ago? I ask for those figures of the past to calculate the impact on this basis if the measure for calculating the minimum pension only takes account of the 20 effective years. What does this mean for men and for women? Do you have any figures on that? What is the current relationship between the people of the different statutes who retired last year and who met the conditions of the guaranteed minimum pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u3	Mr President, I have updated some of my questions and I have withdrawn my first question. I do not have to put two questions to the Minister, but only one. Minister, some time ago you launched the proposal to grant the minimum pension after a career of 20 years. You are launching this proposal without consulting the social partners. Since 1999, minimum pensions have been increased by 21% thanks to the social struggle and, above all, to trade unions. There is already a minimum pension for workers who have a minimum career of 15 years, provided that they have worked at least a third time. If you are working full-time, you must have worked for 30 years in order to receive a minimum pension, taking into account periods such as part-time work, illness, etc. Your proposal, which we are discussing today, for a minimum pension after 20 years of career, but without equivalent periods, will leave many workers, in particular women, who work more part-time, bridge pensioners, redundant workers and so on. So that's exactly where the deception is. You set the period at 20 years, but with the disappearance of those assimilated periods, many workers and servants may have to work a little longer. So to pay this minimum pension, you want to get the money from the weakest, namely the part-time workers, the bridge-retirement workers and the redundant workers. In a reaction, the ABVV mentions this system of communicating vessels to the detriment of the weakest. Minister, how do you respond to this criticism of your intention to grant the minimum pension after 20 years at the expense of the weakest? Are you prepared to seek other sources of funding for these measures? When and how will this be applied in the field of retroactivity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a preliminary remark on social consultation. Let it be clear! I do not intend to ask anyone for permission every time I think about something or make an idea. I'm a little tired of hearing, every time we get an idea in this country, that we should go through a bunch of intermediate powers that would give you an opportunity to give an idea. No! That's not how it works. Everyone has the right to think and to say. There is freedom of expression. In your model, it may not exist, but in mine it exists. Freedom of expression remains important to me. It is not a question of deciding to propose a text. There is no text on this. It's just a reflection. Fortunately, it is still possible to send ideas from time to time. Otherwise, we can all go home. This is the prerequisite that I wanted to make and I would like to stop with this infantilism on concertation. Of course, when we have specific texts to propose, social consultation is of course necessary. I am particularly attached to it. Several of you are asking me about minimum pension reforms. The idea has a dual objective. The first is to take into account days in the public service as part of the minimum pension. Today, 30 years do not take into account any part of a public pension. I don't think that's normal. I do not see why, if we have worked for a few years in the public service, they are not taken into account in calculating the 30 years that allow access to the minimum pension. Today, only years as an employed or self-employed person are taken into account. The aim is then to enable the worker who cannot meet the condition of 30 years of age to have access to the minimum pension, when 20 years of actual work is established. It's a new key. It's not an access replacement. It's a new access key. The reform therefore offers new opportunities for access to the minimum pension. I would also like to correct a number of inaccurate information that has been circulated in this regard. For example, there is no question of abolishing the minimum annual right which allows workers who can justify a career of fifteen years, each of which has 104 full-time equivalent days, to benefit from a more advantageous pension calculation based on an annual minimum wage of €22,916, where it is higher than the wage actually received. I would like to say that the new condition of 20 years of effective work does indeed provide added value for workers. Although the minimum annual duty is currently 1/45th of the minimum pension, the minimum pension of 20/45ths will be more advantageous for the beneficiary than the grant of the minimum annual duty for 20 years, since its minimum pension will follow the revaluations carried out under the welfare envelope, while the pension, calculated and granted on the basis of the minimum annual duty, will remain unchanged, even if the minimum annual duty is revalued. The financing of this reform is not the result of a reduction in pension rights for similar periods, but rather of the application of a minimum daily duty which is already used in the framework of the part-time MMP. In any event, the current budget for minimum pensions will not be reduced. The minimum pension granted to a single person for 20 years of actual work will be EUR 509.24, which corresponds to 20/45ths of the current minimum pension. It should be noted, however, that the granting of a minimum pension always means that the amount of the pension calculated on the basis of actual earnings is less than the amount of the minimum pension. At present, it is also possible for a person who has worked for 20 years but does not fulfil the career requirement for the minimum pension to receive a pension of less than EUR 509. Thanks to the idea that I propose, this person could be entitled to a higher pension than that to which he or she is entitled today. Mrs Becq, with regard to the distribution of men and women, the Federal Pension Service has given me the following figures for the year 2011. Within this period it was not possible for the FDP to give me more figures. Of the 73 840 pensioners in 2011, 54.1% of whom were men and 45.89 % women, 4.76% of men and 18.60 % of women received a minimum pension. Of those retired in 2011, 5.17% of men and 8.34% of women met the proposed career conditions of 20 years worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u5	Minister, thank you for your overall reassuring response. You confirm that this is an idea and not yet a text. The idea can therefore still be shaped, improved with suggestions from all sides. We will not fail, if necessary, to do so. On the other hand, I understand – and it is also a reassuring element – that it is a regime that would come in addition and not in place. My main concern was that it would come into place and that some people who had rights would lose them by this new system. This is an opening of rights, an increase of resources for some people who, under the current regime, would have less even if resources could be considered as still insufficient. I have one more question. If the amount of certain small pensions is increased, it will generally weigh more heavily on the budget. What will then be the funding? We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. I hope that this will not be at the expense of other mechanisms and other pensions in the broad sense of the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If there are ideas, then it is important that we can ask questions about them. In this way you can reassure us or make us aware of a number of issues. You're saying it's not a substitute for pomegranate. That is important, because the concern was mainly related to this. They thought there would be a new system. I understand that it comes between the IGO and the existing minimum pension. If, on the basis of the 20 years worked, a pension is lower than the IGO, then one could fall back on it, because then an income survey is carried out. The question remains, then, how many people will be eligible and will be able to make use of them. The possibility of adding together all the years of all career systems, including public and self-employed, is an important element to take on board, but we need to look in particular at their impact. I understand that, if necessary, it would be possible to calculate automatically from the pension services what is the most favourable system for the person concerned, as is the case today for the family pension or individual pension. I hope, however, that it is not a reflection of future unique arrangements, because if that is the case, then I think it is very important that we can discuss them very much beforehand and, above all, see the consequences of the decisions we take.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u7	Minister, I would like to raise a point about social consultation. There's a real passive. You tell us about the right to issue an idea and you had the right to have to work until you were 67 years old. However, when dealing with the social consultation procedure, the debate is limited to how this measure can be applied. It is legitimate for those who are very attached to social democracy like me, the representative of the PTB-GO, to worry: when you launch an idea in the press, there is already no discussion possible before it is implemented. I'm reassured, one system won't replace the other, but I'm worried about your attack on the legal pension. More and more people will only benefit from the minimum pension. By following the government's philosophy, we are moving towards a pension system whose sole goal is the fight against poverty, but by moving away from the model of a pension that is being built throughout his career. You did not respond to the funding for this additional measure. I'm worried about this game of vases communicating between the legal pensions built during the career and the minimum pension. As a democrat and social resistor, I will monitor whether the government persists in these anti-democratic measures. If so, I shall consider a strong counter-power to limit this sometimes autocratic trend. You know the commitment of the PTB-GO to the warmth of social democracy. We will remain very attentive in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u8	Questions Nos 9417 by Mrs Temmerman, 9811 by Mr De Vriendt and 9457 by Mrs Becq are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u9	Minister, in Le Vif on 18 March, a sociologist from the ULB analyzed your announcement to remove the ceiling on employees' pensions. He pointed out that, besides income inequality, there were inequalities in living conditions. For example, low-income people tend to suffer from health problems. Moreover, according to him, the ceiling fulfils a dual function: first, to avoid too high social security expenditure, but also to reduce inequalities between pensioners. I also believe that these should be reduced as much as possible. Minister, can you tell us who will bear the cost of this upgrading and how it will be put in place? Are there any avenues for reflection already explored with regard to this measure, which would be fiscally neutral? Who will pay for it? Is it not going to widen the inequalities between pensioners, to the detriment of those who receive a very modest pension and find themselves, as the sociologist pointed out, in a situation of precariousness? The poorest pensioners already face higher health care and lower life expectancy. What compensation mechanisms do you anticipate in your reform of this group? In other words, do you envisage, in parallel and even more significantly, increasing the lowest pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u10	Mr Daerden, the aim of this measure is not to remove the wage ceiling, as I have heard from fools. We never said that. The aim is to link the evolution of the wage ceiling to wage developments, as advocated by the Pension Reform Commission and Mr Vandenbroucke. As you know, the law on the pact of generations, which we voted together, provides for an annual increase of 1.25% of the wage ceilings taken into account for the calculation of social benefits. It's part of the generation pact. I note that under the last welfare envelope covering the years 2015-2016, the social partners have not proposed this improvement while it is in the generation pact, and while the corresponding budget has been incorporated into the welfare envelope, but it has not been used for this. Contrary to what a sociologist claims in an article in the Vif, it is not about removing the ceiling. I would remind you that this is 1 672 euros net per month, which for some of them makes pensioners of the rich. It is a matter of ensuring that the ceiling follows wage developments, I repeat. It should be noted that during the same period, the minimum pensions were adjusted in a much higher proportion than the wage ceiling. For example, the minimum monthly pension for isolated paid work rose from €832 in 2004 to €1,145 in 2015, an increase of 37.6%. The maximum monthly pension, as determined by the salary ceiling, increased from €1,813 in 2004 to €2,238 in 2015 (gross amounts), an increase of 23%. Of course, my intention is not to raise salary ceilings to the detriment of minimum pensions. These will continue to be increased under the welfare envelope, with a much larger amount by this government than by the previous one. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all minimum pensions were increased by 2% in the 2015-16 wellness envelope, while the revalorization of minimum pensions was only 1.25% in the 2013-2014 wellness envelope. This is sufficient evidence of the government's willingness to give, contrary to what seems to be said, a particular priority to minimum pensions. However, our pension plan is an insurance plan, which must ensure a certain link between the contribution effort and the amount of the pension. I allow myself a more general reflection. If we are to guarantee a strong first pillar, legal, of pension, we must maintain this link. If we make it disappear, it's the planned death of the first pillar. From time to time, it's important to think about it. With respect to the percentage of people whose wages exceed the salary ceiling, I can provide you with the following figures, which were provided to me by GISEDIS and give you the table covering the period 1985 to 2013. It allows to see evolution and it is interesting. The number of men exceeding the wage ceiling increased from 9% in 1985 to 15% in 2013. The number of persons concerned has almost doubled. This is even stronger if we add women, who rose from 2% in 1985 to 9% in 2013, so the figure has increased fourfold. It is interesting to note that the proportion of men and women has changed significantly since 1985. We were 9 per cent men and 2 per cent women, more than four times as many men as women, while now we are 15 per cent men and 9 per cent women, less than twice as many. These figures show a clear sociological evolution. For 2013, out of a total of 1,931,000 men working in the sector – I am not talking about the civil service – 289,000 men exceeded the salary ceiling and, in the same year, out of a total of 1,680,000 women workers, 151,000 women exceeded the ceiling. This table shows that the percentage of men whose wages exceed the wage ceiling has been almost stable since the 1990s. On the other hand, for women there is a slight change, although the percentage of women still remains below that of men. I conclude by saying that, if we re-align minimum pensions every year, which I want, and that, on the other hand, the wage ceiling is virtually no longer re-aligned, in twenty years, everyone has a minimum pension. I did the math. Is that the objective? I think it's a mistake. We must take this into account and ensure that there is some change. Moreover, the wise ones – we in this case – who voted for the pact of solidarity between the generations, also thought so. This is why this pact provides for an evolution of the wage ceiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u11	Minister, I thank you for this answer, which first helps to clarify your idea, in any case the interpretation that can be given to your idea. This is not the removal of the ceiling but an evolution of it. It is clear that this development is necessary in principle. What needs to be seen is the extent of this development. A second element concerns the evolution of the ceiling. You mention that there are, in total, more than 400,000 people involved, if we add men and women. This represents a significant budgetary impact. But you say that your elements of reform must be fiscally neutral. Who, then, will have to bear it? There is no concrete answer at this stage, but this is obviously something to which we will pay particular attention. You also refer to the insurance nature and the need for a link with contributions. I prefer when you mention "a certain bond" because the first pillar is the pension pillar that must remain the most solidary. There must be solidarity mechanisms because if the link is direct, there is no more solidarity. I would also like to mention the fact that pension financing is not just contribution-based funding. There is also a dilution of this link through this multiple funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u12	Mr Dehaene, my question concerns the famous solidarity contribution, which Jean-Luc Dehaene introduced even more blissfully, in this particular case a little less blissful, of course. This is a tax on a tax that pensioners have to pay from a certain amount. This varies from 0 to 2 %, depending on the monthly gross amount. People who have a supplementary pension can choose between a monthly interest rate or an amount paid at once in the form of capital. If one chooses the latter, the calculation of the solidarity contribution is based on a monthly fictitious interest rate. The 1997 Royal Decree established that interest rate on the basis of an interest rate of 4,5 %. You have adjusted the percentages in another dossier, in particular the guarantee of return on supplementary pensions, or the social partners have done so. This was greatly reduced to 3.25 % and 3.75 %. Are you prepared to adjust interest rates to market interest rates in this solidarity contribution dossier, which is a tax on a tax payable by pensioners? Is it true that an interest rate of 4,5 % is still taken into account for calculating the fictitious interest rate? Do you agree that this leads to an overestimate of the total monthly pension amount and thus to an excessive contribution of solidarity that people have to pay? Do you intend to amend this regulation, especially in the light of the recently adopted law on the guarantee of return on supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u13	A conversion coefficient should be used to convert a capital into a fictitious interest rate. The Royal Decree of 25 April 1997 implementing Article 68 (2) of the Law of 30 March 1994 laying down social provisions provides for a conversion coefficient based on a technical interest rate of 4,75 %. This Decision shall still apply. As far as the conversion coefficient is concerned, I shall make the same determination as you do as regards the interest rate to be taken into account for its fixation. This no longer corresponds to the reality of the interest rates currently applicable. It is precisely for this reason that I indicated in my general policy paper for 2016 that I would review the modalities for converting supplementary pension capital into interest. The analysis is currently underway in order to identify what is possible, also taking into account the budgetary impact of such a review.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u14	I thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u15	Mr President, Minister, according to the press of recent weeks, the service mypension.be would unfortunately not be accessible for teachers employed by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This is the fault of the Education Administration, which did not provide the necessary data for the calculation system provided by the federal tool. This situation is regrettable because it penalizes many of our fellow citizens who are thus deprived of a quality service, and this is due to a lack of foresight at the level of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Minister, can you tell us if you have any information about the timetable set by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation Education Administration to complete its data encoding work? Have you had the opportunity to raise awareness among the ministers responsible for compulsory education and higher education about the need to reach a solution in this matter? I repeat, it is not normal for a quality service set up at the federal level to benefit French-speaking teachers because of a lack of management in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u16	Mr Calomne, on 2 February last, I sent a letter to the Minister for Education of the Wallonia-Brussels federation reminding her of the public interest in the information available via the online communication platform mypension.be. In fact, every worker whose career data are known can both consult his career there but also obtain the famous date P, that is, the date from which he will be entitled to a retirement pension in each pension scheme in which he has formed rights. This important information for the citizen, however, can only be proposed when the career is known in the database and the data are returned. This database is common to both pension institutions. Legally, this should have already been the case since 1 January 2016, since it is a legal obligation. Article 143 of the Act of 29 December 2010 laying down various provisions provides that electronic certificates containing the historical career data of all workers in service with a public sector employer as of 1 January 2011 must have been issued and validated before 1 January 2016. In addition to the ministerial circular of 6 July 2015 on the deadlines to be observed in sending declarations of historical data in the context of the design of the electronic career data bank and the electronic file of public service pensions (the CAPELO project), which already reminded public sector employers to order, I asked by mail dated 2 February last to the Minister of Education of the French Community, to give instructions so that all the certificates of historical data still missing for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation could be transmitted as soon as possible. In the Minister's response of March 3, it appears that 305,677 hours of work are still required to encode the 100 thousand electronic certificates containing the missing historical career data. Pending an objectivation of the human resources required for this task, priority is currently given by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to the encoding of the electronic certificates of the teaching staff who have submitted either a pension application or an application for lay-off for personal convenience concerning the retirement pension. Therefore, I am not in a position at the moment to provide you with a timetable for the encoding work which has yet to be carried out by the administration of the Education of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. In response to the question put to her in the parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on the lack of transmission of data by a large part of the teachers, the minister acknowledged "a fault, an administrative deficiency which must be dealt with in the shortest possible time". I therefore do not despair that a realistic timetable will soon be given to fill this delay, which penalizes a very large number of teachers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u17	Minister, thank you for your full answer, even if the problem persists. I hope that a timetable will be provided to you quickly. I believe that several members of other assemblies will ensure that this delay can be resolved as soon as possible. Everyone must be able to cooperate in order to ensure the effectiveness of this quality service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u18	At the end of January, Minister, you announced your intention to increase the minimum pensions by 1% for all employees with a full career. As you know, about 90% of women are not eligible because they do not have a full career. Two days later, you announced that the highest pensions will go up from 2018. This must be done in a budget-neutral way. To finance the increase you want to cut in the treated periods. A third announcement followed, namely that anyone who has worked effectively for 20 years is entitled to a minimum pension, but that cuts are made again in the periods treated. In these three measures women have always been disadvantaged. Figures show that the average female worker's career for more than half is composed of treated periods. Touching those epochs is thus touching on the pensions of these women. These pension contributions are already not high, I am talking here about workers' pensions. The Women's Council and the trade unions have calculated that the average pension of a female worker would now be just EUR 689. The pension gap between men and women is therefore more than 25%. I do not need to remind you of the government agreement that states that the government is committed to integrating a gender dimension into every policy area so that existing inequalities are eliminated and public policies do not create or strengthen inequalities between men and women. I quote the coalition agreement: "There will be special attention to the different situations of women and men in the context of socio-economic reforms'. During the press conference on Monday 29 February, the Common Trade Union Front and women's organisations expressed their fear that you would propose a number of important measures in the context of the forthcoming budgetary control, which is now partly behind us. We'll wait for the numbers, and we'll check this out. However, in the past a number of women's unfriendly measures have already been taken. Hence my questions. Have you applied the gender test to the proposals you have made before? If so, why do we continue to push through these women's unfriendly proposals? Will alternatives be sought? If that is not the case, why do you not keep the promise to integrate the gender dimension into every policy area so that, according to the government agreement, the government's policy does not create or strengthen inequalities? Finally, will you apply the gender test consistently in the future? Will you, in that sense, continue with the treated periods? Is it your goal to kill all the likes of time? If not, which ones will certainly be preserved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u19	Mr President, contrary to what some people have mistakenly said, this government's pension reforms are beneficial to women. The impact of the reforms already adopted was analysed by the Federal Planning Bureau, the Study Committee for Ageing and the National Bank. All these institutions come to the same conclusions. The reforms adopted will allow not only an increase in the average pension amount, but also a reduction in the risk of poverty among workers with an incomplete career, most of whom are women. As far as the new reforms are concerned, I strongly deny that they would be detrimental to women. It is true that the minimum pension is currently refused to a greater number of women than men. For example, 45% of women do not fulfil the 30-year career requirement to receive a minimum pension, compared with only 6% of men. However, this discrimination is not new and has never prevented the social partners from proposing revaluations of the minimum pension. In addition to the fact that the reforms I am proposing are intended to strengthen the link between the contribution effort and the pension amount, I do intend to eliminate this inequality by increasing access to the minimum pension by means of a new career condition of 20 years of effective employment. This new condition will allow women, who have had to interrupt their careers at some point, to have access to the minimum pension. The proposals I will make to that effect will, of course, be subject to a gender test. The trade unions have already denounced the fact that the revaluation of the minimum pension for full-time pensioners would constitute discrimination against women. On the contrary, the figures from the Federal Pension Service show that this measure will have a positive effect and impact on women in the workers' system. The measure will benefit 76 000 pensioners, 52 000 of whom are women, 69 per cent of the total number of beneficiaries. It is regrettable that the discourse of the trade unions in this way spreads disinformation only with the intention of providing arguments to those who have difficulty with the fact that after years of inaction we have decided to reform our pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u20	Minister, you are really not answering my question. It's about the people who're retiring now. Moreover, I am not alone in saying that the measures are very detrimental to women. I had a debate in the Seventh Day, where the chairman of this committee was also present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u22	That was indeed a good debate, Mr President. In this debate, Minister, all the majority parties have admitted that there should be transitional measures for the women who are now retiring. At the time, they were presented with something different than the same period. These periods are now systematically reduced or abolished or are subject to various proposals. Women who stayed home at the time to take care of the children or a sick family member or who, in consultation with their husbands, decided to stay home for the children and then go back to work, will never have a full career. With your measures they will never receive a full pension. This certainly applies to women with a workers' status, because pensions for this category are very low. Minister, it is unbelievable that you continue to claim that 52 000 women...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u24	But no, it's true. Why don't you calculate that against all the women? Your total is, after all, that of the number of people eligible, there is a certain percentage of women. However, I would ask you to look at all the women who retire and see how much of them can benefit from your measure. Mr. Secretary, I have other figures. You should know that in an ordinary career of a worker's wife, more than 50% consists of treated periods. You want to abolish these treated periods. It is therefore not necessary to be a mathematical genius in order to establish that these women will not have a full career or a full pension. As calculated, they will receive around EUR 680 per month. That's the average for the workers' wives. I would like to add, Minister, that not only the trade unions have opposed this. That's what all women's organizations of all tastes did. I know that the current government really launches a number of attacks on the trade unions every time. No, it's not misinformation. These are exact figures, minister. You have to have the courage to look at these numbers. If you say that the gender test has always been applied, I would ask, including the President, to get that gender test for the proposals that have been made here. These calculations cannot be correct. Again: one does not need to be a mathematical genius to know that if there are more than 50% treated periods and if they are abolished, then there is no longer a full career. One plus one is still two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u25	Mr President, I propose to raise my two questions together. Minister, you have received representatives of teachers and officials on several occasions. This highlights their concerns about their status. As you have already said in your declaration at the beginning of the legislature, and as has been repeated recently, you have the will to harmonise the pension schemes of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons, particularly in the area of diploma bonuses, as regards the latest developments. How about harmonisation, if it's on the rise? However, here I believe that this is downward harmonisation. This will therefore have an impact on the amount of the public service pension. It is clear that this will have an impact on the individuals concerned, but it will also have an impact on the attractiveness of public services, and this is to be stressed. You were talking a few minutes ago about counter-truths that some would tend to convey on your policy. Here, we could send you back the formula. A few weeks ago, in another debate, you said: "There is no question of abolishing diploma bonuses in the calculation of the pension. The persons concerned will retain their first preferential periods until the social partners have defined the list of heavy trades." We won't touch anything for a very long time. Now you're coming with this, which I don't know if it's an idea or a decision already. If it's an idea, it's going to mature again, but I have the feeling that this announcement is more than an idea. Has there been any consultation on this matter with the social partners? Can you confirm to me that you will remove the automatic inclusion of years of study in the calculation of the amount of the public servant's pension, and thus reduce their pensions? If these years are no longer taken into account in the calculation, this can have a heavy impact. Several figures have been provided. This is sometimes several per cent or even more than 10 per cent, which is a significant effect. How do you justify this measure in relation to your previous statements? Finally, what would be the cost of the regularisation contribution to keep the valuation of years? In the event of payment of this regularization contribution, will the civil servants benefit from the same calculation as today? The problem addressed by my questions is particularly important to them and to me. Unfortunately, having to leave our assembly, I will not be able to listen to your answer, but my colleague will give me a very faithful report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u26	Mr President, all my questions were joined when I wanted to dissociate them. I will summarize all these exciting questions on ideas put forward by the minister. I note that we have gone beyond the framework of philosophy and that we are already dealing with the implementation of the various measures. Minister, until last year, officials could count their period of study as working years to retire early. Those who had studied for five years had enough of 36 years of work to be able to stop working for 60 years. Employees had to have worked for 41 years to do so. The Michel government had decided to reduce the number of study months each year, so that the so-called diploma bonus no longer counts from 2030 in order to retire early. The government wants to implement the same reforms for the calculation of the pension amount of civil servants. They will therefore have to work longer in order to qualify for a full pension. In other words, if they no longer work, they will see their pension drop. That's the point. You always say there's no problem if there's longer work. However, if they no longer work, they will see their pension fall. How much do you estimate the revenue from the measures? What impact will they have on civil servants' pensions? How do you account for the measures, as you repeatedly claimed in committee that your pension measures would not lead to a reduction in pensions? Those are my general questions. I also have a few specific questions. Minister, the government wants to harmonise the statutory pension of civil servants with that of private sector workers. The government agreement already provided for four measures restricting the civil servants' pension: the abolition of the diploma bonus, which I have just mentioned, the calculation of all civil servants' pensions on the basis of the tantième 1/60th, with certain exceptions for the heavy professions, the no longer counting of the contractual employment for the calculation of the civil servants' pension and the calculation of the civil servants' pension on the basis of a longer career rather than the last 10 years worked. The introduction of the first two measures was decided at the last budget conclave and announced on Saturday 9 April. The following measures are still in the pipeline. In many public services, there is a tendency to employ civil servants ascontractors during the first year of their career. You know that, since you work in a municipality. The subsequent appointment as an official, also known as a "statutorisation', will calculate the pension rights acquired during the contract employment according to the rules of the civil servant's pension. The abolition of that system is once again far-reaching. The civil servants' pension is better for two reasons, which you do know. I'm skipping a few generalities that I won't talk about anymore. That's to save us some time, minister. The complete abolition of the equalisation for the career break means a reduction in pension rights for the persons concerned by EUR 24.65 gross per month. Since the Di Rupo government, the career break and the time-credit that is not specifically motivated has been treated as a maximum for one year. Can you confirm, Minister, that it is no longer a matter of contractual employment, the calculation of pensions for a longer career and the abolition of the treated period that is still in the pipeline? Can you confirm the figures quoted on the impact of these measures and what estimates do you have on the budget? Then, Minister, I have a question about the tantiemes. The failure to include the years of study for the calculation of the civil servant's pension means that the applicable years of service are reduced. An official's pension is calculated by dividing the number of years of service by 60, this is the tantième system, which you know of course, and multiplied by the reference wager. For example, if an official has 40 detachable years of service, of which four years for higher studies, the abolition of the bonification years will result in a break of 36/60 instead of 40/60. The pension is then calculated by multiplying the reference bet by 60% instead of 66%. For an average civil servant's pension, this means a reduction of EUR 106,59 per month, since according to the KU Leuven Sociological Research Centre, the average pension of civil servants is equal to EUR 1 599. For officials with a tantième of 55, the reduction is even greater. The trade union posters are beautiful. I'll show you here. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to see them, but I can leave them to you by attaching them to the oral question. It can be used for your archives. It's always interesting to see what's going on. I'll give them to your collaborators. In the case of officials with a tantième of 55 the reduction is even higher. The trade union ACOD has given a concrete example of Petra, which you can see here on the poster. She is a teacher with a career of 40 years, of which 20 years are contractual and 20 years are statutory. She is covered by barema 148. The private sector revaluation coefficient is 0.99. Under the current regime, it is covered by tantième 1/55 and is awarded 36 months of graduation. In short, it is a whole calculation, which is fully included in the written preparation of the question that you have received. If we take into account any decaying baremas, the difference would grow to 193 euros net. Mr. Secretary, can you respond to that? Are these figures correct or not for Mrs Petra? Of course, a lot of people are in the same case. Minister, I have another similar question. Minister, I spare you all the general introduction I have already made. The PVDA study department calculated the impact of the measures for the extension of all tantiemes to 60 years. Officials with a tantième of 48 have acquired a full pension after 36 years of service. [[That's 75%, that's 36/48ths.]] We're good! The conversion to a tantième of 60% means, where appropriate, a reduction in the pension to 15%. I find it quite logical: 36/60ths. [[We're 60 percent, compared to 75 percent.]] By subtracting 60 of 75, we came to the conclusion that this was actually 15% of the difference. But you obviously have other calculations to submit to us. Minister, do you confirm, yes or no, that there is a 15% reduction in pensions for the same period of work? Or do you say it's not about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u27	Mr President, Minister, among all those who are concerned about your reforms are, in particular, teachers whose work is special, useful and important for the future of our country, our children and, also, our economy. They are concerned about these reforms and their careers extend for several years without taking into account the fact that daily work with young people can be particularly burdensome. Certain distinctions may have to be made according to functions and environments such as, for example, kindergarten teachers or other functions with a heavier physical or psychological burden. They met you. But after this meeting, the budgetary conclave took place and announced new ideas for questioning, in particular, the tantèmes or the taking into account of the years of study. This, if confirmed, will have a clear impact on tens of thousands of people. I would therefore like to take stock with you of your contacts and commitments with teachers' representatives; of the progress made in defining difficult occupations and, precisely, of the specific hardship of the teaching function; of your dialogue with the governments of the Communities. This has been discussed at the specific point related to mypension.be, but it seems to me that it goes beyond that. What commitments can you make so that, beyond the reforms that affect everyone, the teaching public is not particularly affected by your pension measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u28	Much has already been said here on the subject, and I will try not to repeat it. I shall concentrate on the deletion of the diploma certificate for officials. I would like to remind you once again that in 2015 you promised, after a question from me, that it would not be affected. The number of years would be affected, but not the level of the pension. You will now. It is mainly the teachers who will pay the price for this. This has an impact on your relationship with the Communities. The decision actually puts your fellow Members in the Community governments with their backs against the wall. With this flat-rate saving measure, for let us admit it, it is not a reform measure but a saving measure, you are undermining the efforts made by the Communities to make the profession of teacher attractive again. The unions react furiously. However, we already know that you have absolutely no ear for what the unions are saying. However, I can tell you that Minister Crevits, responsible for education in the Flemish Government, was still frowning on her eyebrows and pointed out that the decision crossed her relationship with the teachers and the career pact she is preparing. Following the completion of budgetary control, your Prime Minister stated that the budget remains on track thanks to the combination of pension and labour market reforms. However, the reforms you announced would enter into force in 2017 at the earliest. So there's still plenty of time to start the consultation. I therefore hope that you will do so. In addition to the questions that my fellow Members have already asked, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm that the planned measures should actually put the budget in order and have little or nothing to do with a reform? In what way can the measures which, unless I am mistaken, begin in 2017 at the earliest have a positive impact on the budget today? If I am wrong about the date of entry into force, you can correct it today. Can you confirm that in 2016 the pension measures would still have to be worth EUR 11 million? That is how it is registered with budgetary control. Secondly, why were the social partners not heard earlier about your plans for the reform of civil servants' pensions? You always say that you think social dialogue is very important, and not just you say that, but the whole government, but again we notice that action is being taken and that the conversation comes every time afterwards. Why did that happen with the decision outlined? Thirdly, why was there no consultation with the fellow Members of the Land Government concerned? Is there any consultation planned in the future? Finally, how many officials apply for early retirement each year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question is wide-ranging, since it has several sub-questions. I would even say that this is akin to a general policy note. I'm going to try to set out the problems. As regards, first of all, the diploma bonus, I would point out that at present it is possible to take years of study into account when calculating the pension in the three schemes, but in a very different way. The conditions therefore vary from one diet to another. Today, civil servants can obtain this bonus free of charge, while employees and self-employed persons have to pay a regularisation contribution in order to benefit from it. Both the coalition agreement and my general policy statement mention the government's desire to harmonise systems. The objective is to ensure greater fairness for all workers. Thus, we have made provision for regularization contributions for all three schemes, including, in the future, for public servants who wish to take their years of study into account when calculating their pension. The diploma bonus is therefore not abolished. The staff member may retain the same amount of pension, but that is true, either by paying a regularization contribution or by working longer, which may be another option if he does not wish to pay a regularization contribution. The federal government has already decided to guarantee the acquired rights, which means that the contribution will be due only for the remaining career years. I take the example of an official with a four-year degree who has already completed three-quarters of his career. If he wishes to benefit from the diploma bonus for an additional year, he will have three years free and for an additional year he will have to pay a regularization contribution over a single year. It was a subject that required important reflection. There were two options. Either the Vandenbroucke Commission's conclusions were simply applied and everything was removed. This commission called for the abolition of all diploma bonuses in the three schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u30	She's asking for more things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u31	Yeah, I know, but here I'm talking about graduation. Either, we found a system that harmonizes the three regimes but maintains the principle of bonus. That is the option we have taken. That means we're actually going to ask for a regularization fee. I would like this regularisation contribution to be accessible, i.e. calculated in such a way that it is not an obstacle to taking into account the increase and that it is a regularisation contribution that remains reasonable. I would point out that it will always be deductible from taxable income and that it will take into account acquired rights. In accordance with the Government Agreement, the arrangements for this harmonisation, including this contribution, will be discussed in the National Pension Committee, where the social partners are represented, in particular in the Special Public Sector Commission, which also brings together representatives of the Communities, the Regions and local authorities. I will add that any measure relating to the pensions of officials affected must also always be the subject of consultations within the A Committee, where the social partners and the representatives of the Communities and the Regions are also represented. The debate on penitibility is ongoing in the National Pension Committee. The notion of tantèmes is clearly intimately linked to that of penitibility. The aim of this debate is to define objective criteria for penitibility, which will allow for the determination of difficult functions. In a second stage, it will be necessary to determine further the flexibilities in the pension rights that will be attached to the difficult duties. At this stage, it is premature to take a position on the persistence of certain functions. If I did this, it seems to me that I do not respect social consultation at all. Since I am very committed to social dialogue, I am not going to take a position today on the subject! In addition, pension estimates must take into account the rights acquired during the career, including the preferences. It is clear that even if certain functions were to be considered non-difficult on the basis of the criteria under discussion, in the National Pension Committee, these persons would not lose their years for the services they had performed in the past. That would only be for the future. In any event, the preferences will be maintained until the entry into force of the provisions introducing more favourable arrangements for penitibility. It is not a question of removing tantèmes regardless of the entry into force of penitibility. With regard to the salary used to calculate the staff member's pension, the calculation of the pension will continue to be based on the average of the salaries of the last 10 years and, for staff members who had reached the age of 50 years and over on 1 January 2012, on the average of the salaries of the last five years. Career-wide treatment will only be taken into account as part of the implementation of the point pension by 2030. That's the very philosophy of point pension. Today we are not at all in the discussion of how to set up a point pension, even if we outline all the measures we are taking in relation to the future compatibility with point pension. It is important to keep a global view of this concept. We therefore take into account the integration and compatibility of the measures we are taking today with the introduction of point pensions. On April 13, I received public service unions as well as representatives of teachers from all unions. The latter had postponed their visit, originally scheduled for 24 March last year because of the dramatic circumstances associated with the attacks in Brussels. Finally, I saw them just after the budget conclave. During our interview, they told me of their concern about the graduation bonus, the criteria of penitibility, the attractiveness of the teaching function. I stressed the need for structural measures to maintain the viability of our pension system. I have indicated to them the Government's willingness to respect the acquired rights and to hold a social consultation on the measures envisaged. I will shortly receive the Ministers of Education of the three Communities to take stock of the implementation of these reforms. I could have done that before, since Mrs Crevits had offered to meet with them. But as at the same time, Mrs Milquet resigned, I proposed that she wait for her replacement to be effective so that I can invite at the same time the Ministers of Education of the three Communities very soon. In reply to Mrs Temmerman's fourth question, I have a table on the number of pensions by starting year from 2004 to 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u32	Minister, I will really not be long, because I am looking forward to an action by the CSC at 2:00 p.m. precisely to be in touch with this union concern about public servants' pensions. As you can see, this democratic interaction that feeds me really does me good. I don't want to take it away, especially since I don't think I can convince you. You have given quite few figures on the budgetary consequences. I would have liked to know your projections, because in the end, this whole debate is also a budgetary debate. Are you going to save money with this type of measure? That's the question, though. It will be difficult to hold the language that will not affect anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u33	(...) This is not an economy on the pension system as such. The 11 million are the result of a regularisation contribution for 2016. This is not a saving on the amount of the pension, but an additional revenue by speeding up the regularisation contribution. The idea is to bring into force the law on graduation bonus in the autumn and to already have a certain volume of regularisations in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u34	I'm gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u35	Mr. Minister, you're saying a little bit. The tone is soft but the measurements are hard. It must be very clear that you will reach the status of people who play an essential role in the functioning of our State, the preparation of the future. I think that's a very bad signal. You have fun, every time you are asked about the definition of heavy trades, explaining to us that you respect the social dialogue so much that you cannot tell us anything. But you have taken other, most damaging measures, without taking social dialogue into account. From the moment when there can be some form of mitigation or consideration of specific careers, you call for social dialogue, with a certain cynicism, I find, in order to be able to save a little time. I think the teachers are legitimately worried about the fate you're preparing for them. Of course, the acquired rights will remain acquired. That's the least I can do. I cannot say that this is negative, but it does not compensate for the unfair nature of the reforms you are preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will have a great deal of opportunity to discuss this further. Every time you quote the Vandenbroucke plan to justify your measures, I always repeat the same thing Mr Vandenbroucke did in the newspaper itself: you make one small point. What are the three main points in the Vandenbroucke plan? Firstly, there must be a global plan, but you do not. You're gonna do something tomorrow, something again, the day after tomorrow. Secondly, there must be broad support. This means that we need to launch a major social debate with all possible stakeholders. You don't, you decide and keep the concert afterwards. Thirdly, there is the funding that this government absolutely does not want to talk about. Vandenbroucke says that one should not only look at wages and bets, but also at capital. Those are three points, but they are the most important ones. If you quote the plan, preferably the most important things first, then the details. Now let's look at the details of the Vandenbroucke plan. You say that this is a harmonisation and that the Vandenbroucke plan is also in favour of it. That is true, but the Vandenbroucke plan also states that the Staff Regulations should remain separate, because there are so many differences between the two. There is no second pillar. There is no career opportunity for teachers, for example. The wages are lower for some, but for many higher in private. Read the Vandenbroucke plan again! You cite this as the Vandenbroucke plan, which you are therefore required to implement, but Vandenbroucke says that we must certainly retain the Staff Regulations now because apples are compared to lemons. Nevertheless, you take something out again and say that you will now deal with the diploma certificate. You have to look at this globally and also take the other differences with you! What are you doing with the second pillar that is not there for the officials? What do you do with the career opportunities that are almost non-existent for the teachers' corps? You are now saying that you are going to talk to Minister Crevits, who said almost a year ago that it was necessary to sit down together about officials and their retirement. Again, it intends not only to make the status of teacher more attractive, but above all to the profession of teacher. You want to go through this completely now. I do not need to tell you that you have also read the comments in the newspapers and that she is angry about that and you have flooted back. I hope that the consultation you are planning will bring clarity before the end of April. I am still looking forward to your overall plan for pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u37	Mr Minister, since it is the last question, I suggest that you just read the answer. We're not gonna make it too hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u38	Mr President, the income guarantee for the elderly is a benefit of up to EUR 1 031.93 for a single resident today. All pensions and means of subsistence shall be deducted from that amount to the claimant and certain cohabitants, subject to the application of a number of exemptions. The purpose of the exemptions is to apply only partially certain means of subsistence. Thanks to this system of partial exemptions, a person with limited resources can receive an IGO. For example, the possession of a modest house with a limited cadastral income should not have the effect of preventing the IGO from being granted. That is the essential role of the exemption. You know that owning a home significantly reduces the risk of poverty for the elderly. This is confirmed by the Study Committee on Ageing, which states in its 2015 annual report that owning a home reduces the number of sixty-five plusers at risk of poverty from 19% to 10%. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to align the exemption for the proceeds from the sale of the sole property with the exemption for the possession of a property.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u39	When a person sells his or her home to rent one, the recipe he or she has received is taken into consideration. When a person chooses to continue living in their own home, they are taken into account with the margins you have quoted. On the other hand, for a person who sells his or her property and rents one, it is not taken into account. This question is asked by some people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic389x.u40	We want to promote home ownership. In the long term, it is always in the interest of the elderly to own the property. If at some point she decides to sell for a reason X, and spends her capital for her children or for a lot of other reasons, she can end up without anything. Social assistance must then be provided. It is always better to treat the property more favourably than the capital, in my opinion, for the elderly. It's a guarantee for the future.
