ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the question that I have sent you contains long developments. I'll take them back briefly. European legislation allows for a reduced VAT rate for the delivery, construction, renovation and processing of housing provided under social policy. The Royal Decree of 21 December 2013 extends the scope of this reduced rate in order to bring it into line with European legislation. The explanatory memorandum of the Royal Decree provides many details: "In view of the high cost to the Flemish Community of the construction of housing suitable for persons with disabilities, and in order to fill the shortage of such housing, private initiatives which carry out such operations with a view to providing these housing units for rent are recognised by the Flemish Community or by the agencies and funds set up by it. These private initiatives include non-profit organisations (BLAs) and social societies. For-profit corporations are excluded. The reduced rate of 6 per cent can therefore be applied for the delivery, construction, renovation and reconstruction of private dwellings charged to the above-mentioned companies to enable them to pursue a more efficient social housing policy. Some housing funds must fulfil the tasks set for them by the Regions in the context of social policy. They are also explicitly included in the regional housing codes. However, they cannot be considered as regional housing companies within the meaning of heading XXXVI of Table A, nor as joint holding companies as referred to in another heading. In the current state of the legislation, therefore, they cannot benefit from the reduced VAT rate of 6%." The opinion of the Council of State on this decree is as follows: "According to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, a difference in treatment can only be reconciled with the constitutional rule of equality and non-discrimination if it is based on an objective criterion and if it is reasonably justified. The existence of such justification must be assessed taking into account the purpose and effects of the measure concerned and the nature of the principles in question. The principle of equality is violated where there is no reasonable proportionality between the means employed and the intended purpose. The difference in treatment resulting from the proposed measures must therefore be justified in this respect. The applicant for an opinion would therefore do well to justify the distinction made, in the report to the King, under articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. In this regard, it must be borne in mind that, although budgetary restrictions inevitably impose certain choices, these restrictions are in themselves powerless to justify the specific option chosen. A more relevant justification is therefore required." By order of 14 December 2015, the current government took the decision to grant a reduced rate to the construction of school buildings. I have welcomed this, but I am concerned about the legal validity of such a measure in the light of European requirements. The reason for this extension of the benefit of the reduced rate is based on the articles of the VAT Directive on the supply, construction, renovation and processing of housing provided under social policy. The Council of State expressed its reservations about this extension. At the same time, Belgium does not allow private actors to benefit from the reduced VAT rate for the delivery, construction, renovation and transformation of housing provided under social policy, as the directive allows. The Council of State considers that the current legislation creates an unjustified difference in treatment between the public and private sectors. A number of publications relayed this difficulty. Minister, I come to my question. Are you going to amend the VAT legislation so that private actors can also benefit from the reduced rate for the delivery, construction, renovation and transformation of housing provided under social policy, and thus end the difference in treatment which the Council of State considers unjustified?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u2	Fortunately, Mr Dispa, my answer will be a little shorter than your long question, which is nevertheless interesting. I should like to inform you that a draft royal decree to extend the application of the reduced VAT rate to private housing initiatives within the framework of social policy is being drawn up. The consequences of the Council of State's opinion and how it should be taken into account are currently under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u3	Minister, this answer is indeed brief, but it is encouraging. I am pleased that you have resolved to put an end to this difference in treatment. This will only benefit the whole social housing sector and its public or private operators. I will not fail to come back to you later to make sure that this project is moving forward and that this unjustified discrimination finds a definitive solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u4	This question concerns the European directive on the Anti-Tax Prevention Package, on which our committee will be required to issue a subsidiarity opinion next Wednesday at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u5	Mr Minister, the subject will indeed be discussed again next week and perhaps the committee will be able to give its opinion on it. My questions on the European Commission's Anti-Tax Avoidance Package aim to gain more information and thus more insight into the position taken by Belgium in the light of discussions on the subject at European level. On 28 January last, the European Commission proposed its plan to tackle international fraud and aggressive tax optimisation structures. In this context, the Commission has launched a number of proposals, including an anti-BEPS Directive, an amendment to the Assistance Directive on country-by-country reporting, recommendations to avoid treaty abuse, actions to promote good governance and a new procedure on listing tax havens. The Anti-BEPS Directive contains several measures which transpose some of the OECD's BEPS recommendations into the European Single Market. For example, the measures include a general anti-avoidance provision, a limitation of interest deductions, a provision concerning rules on controlled foreign companies, an exit tax, a switch-over clause and a provision on hybrid mismatches. The amendments to the Assistance Directive include the transposition of the recommendation on country-by-country reporting. It would require companies, especially multinationals, to draw up, on a consolidated basis, an annual list of their staff turnover, taxes paid, assets and liabilities for each country in which they operate. There is, therefore, a great deal going on, which we are also interested in and which we want to see from the committee and with Belgium. Minister, what is your opinion on the various measures? What position will our country take in the negotiations at ECOFIN? Can you specifically address the following measures: the general anti-avoidance clause, the limitation of interest deductions, the CFC rules, the exit tax, the switch-over clause, hybrid mismatching and country-by-country reporting? Can you clarify the timing for the European Commission and ECOFIN to take action? Can you also explain to what extent Belgium itself will take measures to transpose certain BEPS recommendations into national legislation? If so, what is the timing for this and what are the measures? Is it a matter of certain elements or is it a matter of different measures? Can you explain to what extent the measures overlap with the Commission's proposal on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base? Can you clarify what the effect will be on the notional interest deduction and the investment deduction if the provision on the limitation of interest deductions is transposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u6	Mrs Smaers, in your question you gave a rather detailed description of the package of 28 January, in which the European Commission is indeed putting forward proposals to tackle tax avoidance by international companies. The most striking part of the package remains the so-called anti-BEPS directive. In this context, the Dutch Presidency is pursuing ambitious timing and is aiming for a unanimous adoption of the directive in June, the month when the Dutch Presidency expires. Before the entry into force itself, the proposal does not contain a specific starting date. As you point out, the proposal for an anti-BEPS directive largely overlaps the proposal submitted in 2011 on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base or CCCTB. Only a hybrid mismatch scheme was not included in the CCCTB proposal. From a Belgian perspective, it must certainly be said that the European Union is not an economic island. Consequently, we need to take into account the global context of the European Commission's proposals or, more specifically, in this case, the BEPS proposal. To the extent that Europe wants to be more rigorous than the OECD, it is clear that we could face major challenges to keep business in Belgium sufficiently attractive at international level, both for SMEs and for large companies. That is also the position that I took at the ECOFIN meeting on 12 February 2016, in accordance with the coalition agreement. That remark is particularly relevant to the proposed limitation on interest deductions, the so-called switchover, and the CFC provisions, with which our country has to handle correctly but with caution from a competitive point of view. In addition, the approved BEPS reports do not recommend moving from an income exemption for low-taxed foreign income to a foreign tax offset. For the CFC scheme itself, due to a lack of consensus, OECD/G20 did not come to a real recommendation, but only to best practices, which is rather non-binding. In order to combat hybrid structures, I clearly indicated in the fraud plan of 3 December 2014 that the Belgian Government will support initiatives by the European Commission to develop as uniform a system as possible at least at European level. The text of the general anti-abuse clause is almost a copy of the anti-abuse clause adopted by the ECOFIN Council last year under the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. As far as the proposal for a directive introducing the so-called country-by-country reporting report is concerned, Belgium has already committed itself last year, at OECD level, in particular in the context of the BEPS project, to introducing the so-called country-by-country declaration. A draft law on this subject is currently under discussion in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that work is taking place in different steps for the different parts of the package and the various measures. I think it is right that you take that into account. As far as the particularities of our country's establishments are concerned, it seems difficult to go beyond what is required by the OECD Directive on interest relief. I think you are right if you warn us to go beyond what is being asked. There are comments to be made and I hear from the field, both in SMEs and in large companies, that there is some concern about further progress. As far as the other measures are concerned, I believe that we should certainly contribute to financial and fiscal harmonisation in the European Union so that steps can be taken forward. Our country will undoubtedly benefit from this, even though we have a number of concerns and sensitivities about harmonization. Finally, we will hear the outcome of the next ECOFIN Council meetings and discussions on interest deductions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u8	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting of 17 November 2015, you replied to my questions Nos 6235 and 7354 on the reduced VAT rate for disabled people on the purchase of a car. At that time, you said that you would return to your administration as regards the VAT aspect. After that, however, I have not heard from them. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you had any contact with your administration about this? If so, what was the result of that contact?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the administration has confirmed to me that, within the framework of its social policy, Belgium has only been allowed to retain the benefit scheme for disabled people and disabled people. An extension of the existing benefit scheme to other categories of disabled persons is excluded. If we want to change the system of favour, we can only do so in the direction of a restriction or abolition of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of 3 February 2016 reviews the proceedings initiated by the United States against BNP Paribas, which had been guilty of circumventing the embargoes on Sudan, Iran and Cuba. As a reminder, this procedure resulted in a fine of almost $9 billion to the bank in 2014. As L'Echo points out, BNP Paribas continues to be the subject of strict attention with regard to the improvement of its control procedures, as US auditors made a verification visit to the bank at the end of January. The agreement concluded by BNP Paribas in 2014 with the US authorities requires the bank to improve its controls and provide proof of this. In the absence of positive developments, the French institution with Belgian capital, because we are the first shareholder, faces a new fine, which, according to L'Echo, could amount to $4.5 billion. Given the Belgian State's significant involvement in BNP Paribas, I would like to hear from you about the information you have about this case. Minister, are you aware of the content of this agreement between BNP Paribas and US justice? By what means? By the management of the bank or via the directors representing the Belgian State? What is the content of this agreement? Does it understand any conditions to be met by BNP Paribas? Which ones? Do you confirm that an inspection was recently carried out by US auditors at BNP Paribas? What conclusion has it reached? Do you confirm the risk of a new fine in the future? What guarantees have you required on behalf of the Belgian State, the Bank's leading shareholder, so that BNP Paribas is now ethically irreproachable in the United States and around the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u12	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, on 30 June 2014, BNP Paribas communicated to the press the comprehensive agreement concluded in June 2014 with the US authorities. Contrary to what the recent press article suggests, there is no agreement other than that stipulated in it. Each quarter, BNP Paribas provides an update on the monitoring of the implementation of this agreement by BNP Paribas when the results are presented. Recently, on 5 February 2016, when the Group's results were presented on 31 December 2015, an update was made on the implementation - throughout the Group - of the remediation plan decided under the agreement and the strengthening of compliance and control procedures. The BNP Paribas Group confirms that the plan is in line with the agreed timetable. This plan includes, among other measures, processing and controlling the Group's dollar flows through its New York branch, increasing the number of compliance services, a process for managing international sanctions alerts, continued operational integration of an enhanced compliance culture and a significant increase in internal oversight. It should also be recalled that the BNP Paribas Group has been subject, as a systemic bank, to the direct prudential supervision of the European Central Bank under the Single Supervisory Mechanism since 1 November 2014. This includes the verification of the proper organisation of BNP Paribas, the correct exercise of its compliance function and, consequently, the control of its reputational risk. In this context, the bank must take into account the requirements of its regulators in the implementation of the action plans for which it has committed itself. It is clear that, in my capacity as Minister of Finance, I have asked the Belgian administrators to ensure strict compliance with all the rules and to apply high ethical standards in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u13	Minister, thank you for asking the directors who represent the Belgian state in the bank to pay attention to the sustainability and ethics of the BNP Paribas model. I think there's work left. On several occasions, I relayed facts showing that this was not always the case. In addition to the reputation risk for BNP Paribas that may result from new problems in the United States, in this case the failure to comply with the court decision in this case, there is a significant financial risk to this bank and, consequently, to the Belgian State, which is its first shareholder. Therefore, I can only encourage you to step up further your pressure on the bank and its administrators to ensure that they make BNP Paribas, as far as possible, irreproachable. When I say "as much as possible," I'd hope it was 100%. It is a goal to be achieved, but there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u14	Mr President, Minister, an investigation report by the Group of the European Greens has just highlighted the way in which Ikea subtracts extremely large amounts of tax – we are talking about more than EUR 1 billion – from which it is expected to pay in various European countries. In order to escape tax, the Swedish chain would rely mainly on the loopholes or rather the loopholes in the Dutch, Luxembourg but also Belgian tax rules. The study notes that each Ikea store pays royalties (royalties) to a subsidiary based in the Netherlands, which only plays a "driving" role. These charges only pass through the Netherlands without being taxed before reaching Liechtenstein, a well-known tax haven. The injury to Belgium is estimated at €7.5 million. It is also apparent from the investigation that Ikea has largely benefited from the system of notional interests; it is also well known since it is included in its accounts. From 2010 to 2014, its Belgian subsidiary, Ikea Service Centre SA, was able to deduct €1.2 billion in this way and paid only €37.5 million in tax while its net income amounted to €1.6 billion. Without the establishment of a country-by-country reporting that Belgian and European ecologists call for, it is unfortunately impossible today to identify the final destination of the funds passing through Ikea Service Centre SA. Minister, can you tell me if you have read this remarkable study? What conclusions do you draw? Can you tell me whether an investigation has already been initiated by the Belgian tax administration concerning these alleged tax evasion practices in the head of Ikea? If not, will you request the opening of an investigation? Do you intend to initiate a dialogue with the European Commission and the other States concerned on this matter? In the current negotiations within the Council on the revision of the Interests and Royalties Directive, what is Belgium's position on the possibility of introducing withholding tax on interest and royalty payments resulting from intra-group transactions within the Union? Do you defend, as we wish, the establishment of a minimum level of effective taxation of interest and royalty payments, bearing in mind that France, Germany, Italy and Spain have already publicly expressed their support for such a measure? What is the position currently being taken by our Government and by you in the Council on the new package of measures against tax evasion proposed by the Commission? What is the situation in particular with regard to strengthening public transparency on the activities of multinational enterprises, for example through country-by-country reporting and public disclosure of advance rulings on taxation (rulings), hybrid loans between entities located in a Member State and a third country or the end of harmful tax regimes such as the system of notional interests in Belgium? Finally, can you tell me whether the government supports the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base (CCTB) at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u15	Mr Gilkinet, the Ikea - Flat pack tax avoidance study, carried out on behalf of the Greens/EFA Group of the European Parliament, was only revealed to the public in mid-February through various media channels. It was also in this way that the administration was informed of this. This document certainly requires a more in-depth study, which is under way. The administration has conducted a profit skimming survey with the taxpayer concerned, but due to professional secrecy, I cannot provide you with more details about this investigation. Discussions within the OECD and the European Commission are ongoing. My administration and my strategic cell are actively involved. The tax treatment of borrowed funds may lead to a substantial reduction in the taxable base. Interest payments are thus deductible while dividend distributions as a reward for own assets are not. Some international companies thus try to transfer debts within the group so that interest costs are as much as possible in countries with high tax rates and interest income is as much as possible in low-tax countries. For this reason, many countries have incorporated limits on the deduction of interest into their national legislation. Belgium has a regulation called thin cap. At European level, discussions are under way. These should normally lead to a regulation in spring 2016 introducing a general limitation on the deduction of interest. In this context, the interest-to-EBITDA criterion will be used. My strategic cell is waiting for the results of these negotiations. In order to achieve greater transparency, Action 13 of the Anti-BEPS Plan contains transfer pricing documentation standards for multinationals and a common model for country-by-country reporting. Such a country-by-country report includes information on the tax distribution of profits at the global level, taxes paid in the country where the multinational company has established a head office and other economic indicators, and a brief definition of the nature of the activities of each enterprise related to the group. This report should enable national tax authorities to obtain an exhaustive and correct picture of the activities and revenues of the multinational group of enterprises. The tax authorities concerned are thus able to carry out a sound risk analysis. Action 13 further provides that transfer pricing must be documented using a dual structure approach, namely, a master file containing the transfer pricing policy information of the whole multinational group and a local file in which all intra-group transactions at the Belgian headquarters are commented on. My strategic unit to combat tax fraud is currently preparing for the implementation of Action Item 13. A preliminary draft law is currently under discussion in the relevant intercabinets working group and will shortly be presented to the Finance Committee. On 8 July 2014, the European Council formally adopted a proposal to amend the parent-subsidiary directive. This adaptation is part of the more general framework of the fight against tax evasion at international level and aims, in particular, at the double non-taxation which may appear in the case of hybrid loans. The parent-subsidiary directive was introduced in 1990 to put an end to double taxation of corporate profits within the European Union. In particular, the aim was to prevent profits already taxed in the head of the subsidiary from being taxed a second time in the head of the parent company when a dividend is distributed. On the basis of this Directive, a Member State must waive the taxation of dividends received by the parent company on dividends (a method of exemption) or charge the tax already levied on the head of the subsidiary (a method of imputation). In some specific cases, however, the Directive leads to double non-taxation at European level, as Member States describe certain financing structures differently. This is for example the case of a financing instrument considered in Belgium as a loan, whose interest paid may be deducted, and considered by another Member State (Netherlands or Luxembourg) as own assets, so that interest collected is exempt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u16	Mr De Meulemeester and Mr Dedecker, may I ask you to step outside when you have business to discuss? You're interrupting the minister and the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u17	I'm going on. My strategic unit for combating tax fraud is currently preparing the transposition of the proposal to amend the parent-subsidiary directive. With regard to hybrid loans, discussions are under way in the intercabinet working group concerned and the draft will shortly be presented to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u18	Minister, thank you for this long answer. I am pleased that your services are analysing this excellent study by the Group of the Greens. I note that an investigation is under way and you won't tell me, which is normal. In the fight against tax fraud and the tax avoidance of multinationals, we need success stories, cases that advance, examples. In this case, this is a particularly exemplary thing. Today, European states cannot tax profits where they are made. But that's the logic. An SME or a craftsman who makes profits in Belgium cannot send them to another country in a fictitious way so as not to pay taxes. This creates inequality and a great loss of revenue for the State. This leads to painful budgetary adjustments. Your mission, and that of the government, is to properly collect taxes. You cited the parent-subsidiary directive of 8 July 2014. I have asked you a question on this subject. This directive has not yet been transposed into Belgian law, which is a pity. You are working on this, as well as on Action 13 of the OECD Action Plan to Combat Tax Avoidance. The intercabinets are under way and we look forward to discussing these texts and to seeing, or not, that they will be effective in the objective of good tax collection. Awareness of the problem is one thing – you recognise the difficulty – but we must now take action in Belgium and in the ECOFIN framework because it is unbearable for citizens that some economic actors escape the obligations of each citizen and every company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u19	Mr President, Minister, a few years ago, in 2011, the European Commission began working on a draft Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base Directive. The Commission's ambition was to change business taxation at European level. Indeed, taxation always takes place at the country level as the economic world changes, evolves and internationalizes. In the European Commission's press release on the subject, it was stated that "the aim of this proposal is to reduce considerably the administrative burden, compliance costs and legal uncertainties currently faced by EU companies in order to comply with no less than 27 national schemes when establishing their taxable profits." This applies to companies which, of course, have an international or transnational structure. Mr Minister, it must be noted that the European Commission has not yet convinced the European countries. Rumors, however, are circulating to announce that a text would come to fruition for this year. Do you confirm this information? What is the status of this directive? Do you know its content or whether changes will occur from the first indications of 2011 as it is an already old file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I can be brief. My question is in line with Mr Laaouej's question. In July 2015, the European Commission presented a strategy to revive the CCCTB project. According to rumors I've heard, a new proposal would soon be submitted. I have two questions for you, Minister. First of all, what is the state of play? Has that document been discussed by the Council? Secondly, will you support the CCCTB project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u21	Mr President, Mr Laaouej and Mr Van der Maelen, the European Commission has indeed announced, as part of the presentation of its Anti Tax Avoidance Package on 28 January 2016, that it will, during the fourth quarter of this year, make a new proposal for a directive on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB). In this regard, the European Commission has specified that the CCTB will be carried out in several phases. In the first phase, the Commission will not propose consolidation of losses and profits at European level. In the first instance, this will be a CTB. As there is no new CCCTB proposal on the table, the Council has not discussed it recently either. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the European Commission also submitted a proposal for a directive on anti-tax avoidance on the same 28 January, which the Member States are negotiating under the current Dutch Presidency. This proposal already contains a number of international elements from the 2011 CCCTB proposal, such as the general anti-abuse measure, the so-called switch over clause and the interest deduction limitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u22	Minister, this question is at the heart of business taxation issues. There are two ways to approach things. Either we persist in the BEPS (Base Erosion & Profit Shifting) dynamic to try to close holes that make international tax planning in transnational groups more difficult or even impossible. It's a first method. I take note of the approval expressed yesterday by the ECOFIN Council for the automatic exchange of information. Either we are completely moving towards a European company tax. This latter hypothesis has the disadvantage of depriving States of a pivotal economic policy. However, it has the advantage of avoiding planning, since there is no longer any reason to attempt to optimize the movement of taxable profits from one country to another within the European Union as soon as a single tax exists. Nor should we forget the aspect of public finances. In other words, if this becomes a European tax, we must ask ourselves the question of its redistribution between States, unless it becomes a separate recipe of the European Union so that the contribution of Member States from VAT, customs duties or other resources should be reduced all the more. Of course, we cannot go this way without thinking about it. In any case, we must undoubtedly reconsider this issue in its foundations. The fear I express as a socialist is that harmonisation which could lead in a few decades to a European company tax will lead to a drastic reduction in the contribution of companies in general and of the largest in particular. One could, for example, look at what corporate tax weighs today in relation to each state's GDP in order to keep at least the same mass of GDP. The difficulty is that some partnerships are subject in a few countries – for example, Germany – not to corporate tax, but to personal tax. So this is a subject that is complicated, difficult, but perhaps the idea of consolidating the base, the rate, the exemptions, could, in the more or less distant future, lead to a European company tax. It's a question that arises, I'm not saying I'm in favour. I say that through the CCTB dynamic, it is this subject that is being asked, and I think it would not be uninteresting to deepen the reflection. I can see that the first person who would actually propose it would wipe out a whole series of criticisms. That is why I think it would not be superfluous to have this reflection in this committee, with hearings, etc. One could imagine different modalities; one could have a European company tax for large multinational groups and a national company tax for SMEs, for example. So these are simple reflections, I do not express any particular position. I simply think that for our work, Mr President, it could be a good project to have hearings on this subject. This does not mean that we should not continue on the current path of fighting international planning, with automatic exchange, BEPS processes, improvement of transfer pricing devices, etc. I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u24	Mr Van der Maelen, do not be distracted. Stick to your line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u25	Mr Minister, I did a special licence for European law in 1976, and there I had to work on the consolidated corporate tax base from the professor of European taxation. That is a good illustration of the fact that European political achievements require a great deal of patience. So I'm waiting impatiently for this. I hope to see this before I get out of active politics. This was a personal thought. I note, Minister, that you have only answered my first question, namely what is the situation and whether this has been discussed by the Council. However, I have not heard your views. I have here a press release that you sent following the announcement of the Moscovici plan. That includes the CCCTB. I remember you saying that you are in favour of the Moscovici plan, but you objected to the harmonisation of tariffs. However, I have not heard you say today that you are in favour of CCCTB, i.e. harmonisation of the basis. I hope you will not repeat what you have already said, namely that you are opposed to harmonization of rates. I'm not going to decide what you say. Of course, you can decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u26	Mr van der Maelen, it seems clear to me that it makes sense at the moment to wait for what the European Commission is going to put forward in concrete terms. I believe that Mr Laaouej has just given an excellent summary of the discussions that take place and of the arguments that are on the table. However, as announced, there will be a concrete proposal during the fourth trimester. On this basis, the government will determine to what extent it can participate. As always, there is a very strong bias, especially in the area of transparency, to do the best that can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u27	I hope, Minister, that this position will succeed. I have a free gallery of a Sander Loones, not unknown to you. In that open gallery he announces that he is opposed in principle to a CCCTB. He calls this a Juncker tax and he's absolutely against it. I'm glad you didn't tell me today that you're against it. I look forward to the government's position on this matter. I hope that we can take the step towards a European company tax together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u28	I would suggest that we should now deal with the questions put by Mr Van Biesen and Mr de Lamotte and then return to the beginning of the agenda, but then we should reach a quorum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u29	Mr President, questions from Mrs Becq and Mrs Jiroflée have been added to the question you are raising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u30	Right, but they're not here, so you're asking your question alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u31	Okay, no problem. Minister, you know that I am rather concerned about the DAVO. I have already said in this committee that as the only male member I have ever been on the Committee of the Alimony Claims Service. Every year we get a report and we must also point out to Members on behalf of Parliament. So I've had that pleasure. I was then the only member who paid, while there were nine ladies on that committee around me who all received alimony! Those were always interesting conversations, that was an interesting period. These conversations each time show the problems with the DAVO. If, according to agreement, a man has to pay a certain alimony to a woman or a woman to a man for the children, but has difficulties in meeting them, then there is a legislative initiative, a justified system. Mr President, I see that Mrs Jiroflée is coming in now. The question about the DAVO is now on, so you can connect immediately. Where a partner fails to fulfil his or her responsibilities, the recipient concerned may rely on an institution. However, each time it appears that the government must make efforts to close the gap. Advances paid must then be recovered, but this becomes more difficult year after year. It also happens regularly that after a ruling on a maintenance scheme one of the partners leaves our country, which also poses a major problem in recovering the advances paid by the DAVO as maintenance money to be paid to the ex-partner or the children. In this committee we have never heard the Minister's position on this. Is the budget enough? Why is it so difficult to recover unpaid maintenance money from the ex-partner? How is it that the recovery of the alimony money stops with third parties? I have just given some examples of the experience we had at the time. Mr Minister, can you inform us about the number of single parents calling on the DAVO? We raised the ceilings in the previous legislature, which made it easier to access the DAVO. Did that open the door to any more benefits? All in all, Mr President, it seems to me that the contribution of the federal government to the DAVO amounts to EUR 20 to 25 million per year, which is not a small amount if it cannot be recovered. I would like to know the Minister's position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u32	My question No. 9594 is about the same question, but I have added some elements which I would like to ask very specifically the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty. I see that Mr Van Overtveldt will answer the two questions. Am I suggesting both now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u33	Your question No. 9594, as was the case with the question No. Mr Gilkinet 9627, under agenda item 21, was merged with agenda item 14. You may therefore put together your questions Nos 9595 and 9594.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u34	Minister, I asked this question last year. Last year, HIVA found that 8 million was under-budgeted at DAVO to be able to serve anyone who asked for an advance. I asked Mrs Sleurs what would be done about it. Mrs Sleurs replied to me that it would be fine and that the deficit would be adjusted at the end of the last budgetary control. Now the same criticism comes out. Once again, the budget does not appear to be sufficiently included. So I have to ask you the same question. In what way will you make an adjustment? I apologise if I don't literally tell you what was in the written preparation of my question, but I don't have it. Apparently, I left it somewhere. In what way do you deal with that? In what way will you respond to that criticism? In my second question, which was actually addressed to Mrs Sleurs, I asked how one would ensure that all those who are entitled to a concession from the DAVO but do not succeed in receiving it through the administrative burden. In my view, this is a much larger number. How many right holders have applied at the moment? How many people could apply, but haven't yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u35	Minister, I have asked you twice in the course of January about the functioning of the SECAL and its assessment committee, whose appointment orders ceased to be in force in 2011. This committee has not met since, since it no longer exists. There is also no evaluation report on the SECAL, which is provided for by law. In response to the publication of information on this harmful situation, several associations expressed regret at the situation and called for more publicity to be given to the new conditions applicable to maintenance claims since 2014. Many right-holders are not aware of the possibility of using SECAL to improve their situation and that of their children. I would like further information. What is the status of the committee's renewal procedure? I let myself be told that you launched it after my questions. That's very good! When will it end? How soon can a new commission be set up? What means will they be available to prepare a comprehensive report on the situation of SEAL more than five years after the publication of the last report? How long is it expected to take? I think it's a priority. We agreed to hold hearings after Easter holidays on the subject. What about SECAL advertising? Are additional resources provided for that purpose? Concrete suggestion: What about the relationship between SECAL and the Justice FPS? Would direct communication to families affected by maintenance claims following a court decision in the family court not be the most effective way to ensure the optimal functioning of SETAL for the benefit of families and their children? Has this hypothesis already been studied and will it be implemented quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u36	The payment of advances on maintenance fees to those entitled to benefit who meet the conditions of the grant is subject to our special attention and is monitored monthly. A budget of 26.6 million was set aside for 2016. The FPS Finance took the necessary measures to implement rapidly, if the allocation proves insufficient, the necessary redistribution of appropriations so that payments can be made continuously and correctly, as in 2015. At the end of December 2014 and at the end of December 2015, the DAVO registered 40 665 and 45 198 requests for intervention respectively. The service included 8 712 files for December 2014 and 10 188 files for December 2015, for which the effective payment of an advance was made. Unfortunately, no distinction can be made on the basis of the applicant's family situation. Where the file is complete, the lead time before the applicant receives a decision on financial intervention from the service may be estimated at one and a half to two months. It goes without saying that the lead time depends heavily on the response time required by the applicant to provide all the documents and information necessary for the preparation of his file and for the initiation of the procedure. The first payment of the advance on the maintenance fee shall be made within one month of the notification of the positive decision to intervene. DAVO paid 23.5 million advances in 2014. This amount increased to 26.2 million in 2015. In 2014, EUR 8.5 million was recovered in the recovery of advances paid. The amount for 2015 amounts to EUR 9.3 million. However, I must draw attention to the fact that these sums are not necessarily linked to the advances paid during the two years in question. These may also be sums recovered in previous years or advances paid in recent years. I would remind you that advances are made on the monthly maintenance payments due. The DAVO therefore does not pay advances on the back stables. Consequently, the arrears can only be paid to the creditors in so far as they are first recovered from the creditors. This obviously depends on the assets and solvency of the debtor and sometimes even on his goodwill. It is therefore difficult to determine the average time limit in which the creditor may expect to receive the amounts due effectively. Not all creditors resume the payment of the maintenance fee, despite the action of the DAVO. For those who do, it is not possible to estimate the period during which payments will be resumed. Although the deterrent effect of the action of the DAVO immediately resumes the payment of the maintenance fee to the creditor or complies with the conditions, thus releasing them from the obligation to pay the monthly maintenance fee to the DAVO, the service does not have any data allowing the exact number of maintenance agents to resume the payment of the monthly maintenance fee on a regular and lasting basis after the termination of the DAVO's activities. My administration does not have precise data on the causes of the non-payment of alimony payments. However, as a general rule, it faces two types of negligent debtors, namely those who want to pay but cannot because of a difficult financial situation, and those who can pay but do not want to. In the latter case, they are debtors who make themselves inability and decide not to pay or debtors who try to blackmail the creditors for various reasons. The DAVO now exists for a little over ten years and the number of applications for intervention continues to evolve in a constant manner. The service has a website and publishes an updated folder annually. The OCMW's, interest groups and the media regularly play the role of intermediary regarding the existence of the DAVO. Moreover, since 2010, the judgments setting up a maintenance fee should explicitly state the data of the DAVO. Finally, according to a study carried out by Professor Pacolet in Leuven, the coverage of the DAVO is relatively large, since the take-up is about 70 %. The procedure for the renewal of the committee is under way in order to set up a new evaluation committee. The presidents of the political groups in the Chamber and interest groups are currently being consulted with a view to obtaining the proposal of candidates. As soon as I have received all the proposals, I will proceed with the nomination of the members. The Royal Decree on Civil Servants and the Ministerial Decree on Councillors may then be published in the Belgian Moniteur. The time frame within which the new committee could be set up depends, of course, on the reaction time for me to communicate the candidates' proposals. I hope that this dossier can be finalized as soon as possible. As for the Commission's resources, there are no additional resources foreseen. As with other reports, the Commission will call on the administration to collect information, analyse it and finalize the evaluation report. With regard to the question that was actually addressed to Secretary of State Sleurs, I can inform you that a project is being launched to make the website of the DAVO more up-to-date, modern and accessible. The creditor should also be able to submit the file digitally to the service. In the meantime, we can inform you that the DAVO is almost ready to make the switch to the submission of the file by digital means. In all likelihood, the digital web form will be launched through the website this month. This will result in significant time savings for the filing of the file on the creditor's side. We assume that this will also work for some people to lower the threshold, as one does not necessarily have to turn to a person to get the file started. In order to make the DAVO more known to a larger audience, Secretary of State Sleurs also recently had a fruitful meeting with the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notariat. In the meantime, they have called on their members to add a certain clause to the instrument which regulates a divorce by mutual consent between the divorced partners when there are common children for whom a transitional arrangement needs to be worked out. The Secretary of State is convinced that such an initiative can prove its usefulness at various times, both in the formatting and the initial discussions on divorce with a notary, and at a later date, when maintenance money is no longer to be paid or should be paid. In addition to these actions, of course, there is the role played by CPAS and interest groups in directing food creditors to SECAL. Moreover, since 2010, the judgements establishing maintenance must mention the coordinates of the SECAL and remind its missions. Thus, as soon as the judgement is delivered, the maintenance creditor knows who to turn to in case of a subsequent payment problem. As he is already informed of the existence of the SECAL, I do not see the usefulness of sending him an additional letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We have thus again demonstrated that the concerns of this committee and of the minister are similar, and that an instrument such as DAVO is fundamental. Its accessibility must be guaranteed and people must be able to make use of it with a simple application. This should not close our eyes to the difference between, on the one hand, the benefits provided by the DAVO and, on the other hand, what the DAVO recovers. Let's take a look at the figures: 23.5 million will be paid out and 8.5 million will be recovered, or 26.2 million in benefits and 9.3 million in recovered funds. This is always about funding the government to these people who rightly call on the DAVO. That's always about ten to fifteen or even more millions a year. In this sense, it is important, during the hearings and discussions that we will have on the DAVO after the Easter holiday, to take a quiet look at where there may be abuses. This should in no way prejudice the role of the DAVO, which is useful and necessary, but leaves no doubt about it. On the other hand, we must not be blind to the government's efforts to recover from third parties between EUR 10 and EUR 15 million in alimony payments per year. I went through that for a while, and it became clear that a lot of people suddenly leave the country after obtaining the divorce document from the court. Then there's nothing in this country that can be recovered. We must preserve the foundation of the DAVO and make it accessible, but we must not close our eyes to the abuses that undoubtedly exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u38	Mrs Becq, you came in later, but you can now give your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I apologise for my delay, but fortunately I have been able to hear more or less the answers. First of all, the concern is that we have amended the law with greater access for creditors to recuperate arrears or get advances. I hear the number of files is rising. Of course, the alimony must be paid correctly. However, I hope that you will be able to make sufficient funds available to meet the increase in applications. Secondly, I agree with the previous speaker on recovery. On the one hand, a rock cannot be poached. Some judges will nevertheless propose maintenance benefits and payments, as they realise that advance payments can be made to those concerned through the DAVO. On the other hand, some creditors may pay, but they do not want to pay. It is important that we have extended the recovery instruments. Nevertheless, we still need to have an evaluation of these instruments in order to see whether they can be recovered even better and more efficiently. I note that DAVO does not pay advances on arrears, unless they can be effectively recovered from the debtor. This may be a permanent problem for many creditors, because they cannot continue effectively despite the costs they incur. That is what we need to take with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u40	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I am particularly delighted that work is finally being done on the website in question and that it is being made more accessible. I am particularly pleased with the finding that it could somehow lower the threshold. I did not know that Mrs Sleurs has taken steps in the direction of the notary. That action can certainly contribute, although this contribution is rather small. However, I remain concerned about the fact that creditors do not get enough to join the DAVO. Something should be done about this, including through cooperation with the OMCW. The figures show that poverty has increased in recent years, especially in one-parent families. The fact that the number of applications from DAVO is increasing much slower does not reassure me. In short, I therefore appreciate the steps that have been taken in the meantime. However, we remain convinced that, among other things, through cooperation between the DAVO and the OCMW, we must ensure that the threshold is much lower and that it becomes much easier to get to DAVO. Once again, I very much appreciate the efforts already made, but there is still a delay in the cooperation between the DAVO and the OCMWFs. Not only the OCMWFs, but also the municipalities should be involved because a lot of people, especially the single-parent families that are now in poverty, are not actually taking the immediate step towards the OCMW. That threshold is often quite high. So I remain convinced that something extra must be done to alert people to the existence of the DAVO. We'll keep following the case. Slowly we will get on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u41	Mr Minister, I am pleased that so many colleagues are concerned about the situation of the SECAL. We will no doubt be able to set up this committee; it is the responsibility of all the political groups represented. I hope they give you the names quickly. This has already been done for our group. I hope that we will be able to hear from those in charge of the service because there is work to be done in this area. SECAL is not spared the logic of austerity and cutbacks in public spending. The budget does not evolve as quickly as needs, even if you tell me every time it will be adapted if there are additional requests. I think this rather leads the services to be careful. Permanent offices have been closed; I have asked you about the matter. We continue to believe that advertising and knowledge of the service are insufficient. Action is therefore still needed to make this tool for combating child poverty even more effective in the future. For that, he needs resources and we are very attentive to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I asked you on 12 January 2016 in the Committee on the Economy, after a question from my colleague Benoît Dispa, on 7 January 2016 in plenary and a question from me to Mr Tommelein, on 21 October 2015. I will not go back to the opinion of the Council of State of 19 October 2015, which considered the link between the 10% threshold of turnover and the "regularity of the granting of meals in a horeca establishment" unconstitutional, which resulted in a replacement of this 10% limit of turnover, with a flat-rate limit of €25,000 per year of food receipts consumed. But other adaptations still have to take place and royal decrees have to be published to answer questions about food trucks and the voluntary sector. It appears that more than 22,000 establishments are now registered out of the 25,000 expected. The latter must do so before April 1, 2016 and have purchased the cash register for July 1, 2016. However, the consequences of this fluctuating legislation are numerous. First, some operators are not in good standing because they have not yet purchased the cash register, because the required characteristics are not always precise and therefore they do not know which system to buy, knowing that prices may vary by a factor of 4 or 5. Secondly, some traders have acquired one, even though, following the new adaptation, they are no longer obliged to do so. Thirdly, trade unions are concerned about the legality of this provision and await the royal decrees which will finally formally put it into effect. They eventually plan to attack the legality of this law. In addition, the consumer is also being misunderstood. It would appear that there has been a significant increase in prices in Horeca. According to the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI), more than 50% of restaurants, breweries and taverns have increased their prices on average by 10% since the beginning of the year. Finally, it would also appear, according to the same union, that this new measure has an impact on staff: one fifth of the establishments had to dismiss one or more employees because of this fund and, for all establishments which have not yet fired employees in service, 58% are thinking of doing so. Minister, when will the long-awaited royal decrees be ready? What will be the main provisions? Are the controls still in place since 1 January 2016 and have the institutions been sanctioned or will they only be sanctioned from 1 July 2016? Can you confirm the price and employment impacts presented by the NIS? Has an analysis of these two elements been carried out or will it be carried out in the coming weeks in collaboration with your colleague Minister for Employment and the Economy, Mr Peeters? How many establishments covered by the old limit are no longer covered by the new limit? Of these, how many had already registered and had they acquired a cash register? Have you been aware of any recourse that could be brought by the sectoral federations? Are the proposed adaptations fully in line with the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u43	Mr de Lamotte, on 4 March last, the Council of Ministers approved the draft changes in the cash register system, especially as regards the percentage from which the funds are applicable. The initial rate of 10 per cent was recalculated by the Council of State. After contacts with the sector, we replaced it with a threshold of 25 000 euros. This amendment was approved by the Council of Ministers on 4 March and will obviously be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. Institutions that were required to install a cash register system by 1 January 2016 remain subject to this obligation, taking into account the change in the limit, with 10% becoming EUR 25,000. The question of the impact of the cash register system on prices and employment falls within the competence of my colleague responsible for Employment and the Economy, Mr Peeters. Butchers, small craftsmen, caterers, etc., are covered by the cash register system only to the extent that they perform restaurant or restaurant services. The question of extending the cash register system to sectors other than the horeca sector is not on the agenda. With regard to system security, no problems have yet been identified or identified. The system has also been developed so that any attempt at fraud can be detected by the administration concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u44	Thank you, Minister. I hear well and will therefore also question Minister Peeters about prices and employment. I wish I could have known if you had solved the problem of the world of associations and food trucks in the framework of the royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u45	It must be determined whether or not the threshold of EUR 25 000 is applicable to them. This is a key element in deciding whether or not to include them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u46	It's relatively important. I am thinking in particular of the sports clubs which would eventually be affected by this regulation. I really draw your attention to this aspect, as well as to the food trucks. I imagine you'll give me the same answer about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u47	Mr President, before discussing the draft law, I would like to ask you to turn a number of oral questions into written questions so that the Minister can give the answers. In this way we can also remove a number of questions from the agenda, because after the discussion of the draft law and the exchange of views we will no longer be able to ask questions and everything will be postponed for another week. There are a number of questions that cannot wait any longer. I would like to turn my questions 9570, 9571 and 9572 into written questions. I do not know if there are any fellow Members who would like to follow my example. In this way we can receive the answers in writing and these items can be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u48	Mr President, I would also like to turn my questions 9631 and 9705 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic361x.u49	Questions Nos 9642 and 9752 by Mr Piedboeuf are also converted into written questions to his question.
