ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u2	Prime Minister, the news of the day is the move of one of your Deputy Prime Ministers. In my opinion, the most important political and social news of last week should be the budgetary news: the European Commission's firm line of budgetary work for your majority. After all the efforts of ordinary people, there is still a huge pit. In this context, Minister of Finance, I would like to ask whether your relocation plans to Antwerp Begijnenstraat have already been arranged, or whether you have already applied to prison. Colleagues, I quote Johan Van Overtveldt, in 2012 still editor-in-chief of Trends: People who move everything over to tomorrow's budget, belong in prison and not in the Wetstraat. That's purely criminal," dixit Johan Van Overtveldt in 2012. Mr. Secretary, I'm not even going that far. I don't take the word "criminal" in my mouth, you don't have to go to jail. But it is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, because it is always the fault of someone else, of the attacks, of the Brexit, of the refugees, while the European Commission says in writing that the problem is the caiman tax, the speculative tax, the redesign. These are all, ladies and gentlemen, N-VA powers. Every day it becomes a little more clear that the strength of change means the strength of decline for many countrymen. Mr Van Overtveldt's problem, Prime Minister, is the problem of 11 million compatriots, who have been facing a lot of invoices, a lot of savings, ridiculously little investment in recent years, and yet still a budget that is not in order. The European Commission's pipe is the result of a policy, Prime Minister, which is too much on profits, dividends, which is a real N-VA policy, and far too little on people and the real economy. I have two very specific questions for you. First of all, it's not the first, the second, the third or the fourth, but the umpteenth report that shows that your prescription is not working. Are you prepared to radically change the helm and give perspective to the people who work and undertake in our country? (Protests from Mr De Roover) Mr President, I propose that the N-VA should register in the debate. Where's the N-VA? The Roover, get over here. Come on. (Rummer on the banks of the N-VA)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u3	Mr Calvo, you may conclude your question. Mr Calvo, you've been at 2 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u4	I understand you're bored with the skinny palmares.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u6	Every day, Mr De Roover, the Fleming will see a little bit more about what the power of change stands for. I repeat: it is the strength of decline for many countrymen. I'll come to my next question, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u8	You're exaggerating, Mr. Cheron. . Mr Calvo has the floor for his last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u9	My next question, Prime Minister, is about the solution, the lever of levers, namely fiscal justice. Last Sunday, you said in the television studio that the value added tax and corporation tax are not linked. According to Mr Peeters, they are linked. I believe that today the plenary and the 11 million Belgians are entitled to know what your plans are for tax justice. I look forward to a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u10	Prime Minister, the previous government crisis is barely over, but it seems that we could not wait until the next budgetary control, because it is already priced again. Minister Van Overtveldt requests studies for a different proposal than that he submits to the government. Minister Peeter in turn blames Minister Van Overtveldt for chaos and uncertainty. There were statements about whether or not to link an added value tax to a reduction in corporate tax, and you name it. Your squabble cabinet seems to be in full election mode again. You have come here today to explain how you are going to defuse the situation once again by pulling everything towards you. But you have a much bigger problem. You received a very bad report from the European Commission, confirming what we said earlier, namely that the Belgian accounting system is very bad. Thanks to the government's messing-up, the citizens' painful efforts will probably have been for nothing, because you will not get the figures straight. State debt is sky high and you name it. The budget is even getting worse in structural terms this year and the deficit is at 3%, just as bad as the previous government. Purple looks all the way back. As far as the causes are concerned, too, purple seems to be entirely reminiscent: overestimates of revenue, overestimates of growth, we all know that. I have heard some very original explanations, I must say. The funniest thing was that of Minister Wilmès, who once again put everything on the asylum crisis and on the attacks, as if the European Commission did not take account of exceptional circumstances, especially as if all the other countries in Europe, which are doing so much better in terms of budgetary discipline, had no problem with that this year. I wonder if she believes that at all, Prime Minister. I have a supplementary question for you: you committed yourself in the coalition agreement to presenting a budget balance in 2018. Yesterday, I heard your Minister for the Budget say that a budget balance is no longer a priority. My question is very specific. Will you abandon the commitment in the coalition agreement, which you reiterated a few weeks ago in your policy statement, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is no longer right. Your policy is not right, your budget is not right, and you cannot keep the promises you have made anymore. I was wondering this morning whether you are doing politics so that everyone in our country would get on with it? That should be the objective of all of us. That is why we have entered politics. What's the result after two years? People have to work longer for less pension and you let them pay more for water and electricity. Those aren't luxury products, are they? Even people who are sick and need care will make you pay more. From now on, people will have to pay 15 euros instead of 3 euros for a nasal spray. People are asking questions about that. One question that keeps coming back is whether they are getting better. Are we all getting ahead of ourselves? On the contrary, people are not getting better, they are even getting worse. For two years, almost everyone in this country has contributed and yet there is 9 billion too short, yet you have to look for 9 billion. Even in the long term, there are no prospects. Is this the perspective you want to offer people? Is that what they get in return for the efforts they have made over the past two years? What perspective do you give the younger generation in our country? What perspective do you give SMEs who want to move forward? In what way will you keep pensions viable? Where are the major reforms and the major investments? Many questions, Prime Minister, but few answers. How many signals, how many red traffic lights do you need before you change your policy and pursue a policy that will make everyone in this country better?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are in a very unfortunate position or, I should say, a very unfortunate one! Indeed, Belgium is today and because of you, in the collimator of the European Commission for its very poor budgetary performance. No one rejoices because we know what that means. If you don't get into the nails, Europe could impose a new adjustment on you. What says adjustment means new sacrifices for the population as you have done since the beginning of the legislature, as if our fellow citizens had not already suffered enough. We have been warning you for two years, from conclave to conclave, from parliamentary debate to parliamentary debate! You didn't listen to us like you didn't listen to the Plan Office reminding you that you would miss at least 9 billion in 2018, as you also didn't listen to the National Bank when it reminded you that you would miss at least 9 billion of which 6.6 billion for the tax shift alone. You have shown the same disdain for the Court of Auditors, which has consistently pointed to the fanciful performance of your new measures. Do I have to recall here the Cayman tax that is doubting within your own majority? For our part, we are advancing the figure of 10 billion euros to be found by 2018. The European Commission is right because it considers that you are missing 9.8 billion by 2018. Not only is the balance in 2018 that you committed to respect uncertain, but the public debt grew to 107%. What else do we learn? That on the moving sand that has become your budget, you might risk a new financial adventure on the corporate tax field. As if you hadn't already caused enough budget damage, now you're going to add more! It's amazing to be irresponsible! Let me tell you, Prime Minister! My questions are very simple. What were your index jumps, tax increases, repeat cuts in social security and public services for? What happened to all these billions of euros caught in the pockets of our fellow citizens? Your impossibility today no longer holds, Prime Minister! The only result of your social baton is the digging of the budget hole! It's a failure! And even if it's late, maybe it's time to open your eyes. My questions are simple because, Mr. Miller, perhaps we should not just write a Liberal manifesto, but perhaps we should also write a budget manual for the Prime Minister! Will you continue to maintain the balance target for 2018? Do you commit yourself to this Parliament to stop the increase in consumption taxes? Are you committed to not continuing your cuts in public services and social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u13	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the verdict of the European Commission has fallen and it is implacable: your budget is inconclusive. In this majority, you had all presented yourself as champions of good management, van het goed bestuur. We were going to see what we were going to see. Everything was going to roll thanks to you. Well, we can see it! You are now in the club of the bad students of the European Union and not, as you wanted us to believe, because so-called information from the Office of the Plan was bad. And then you told us that it was because of Brexit, the attacks, the migration crisis. We can possibly imagine that there is an impact of 0.1% of GDP but, frankly, no more. This obviously doesn't explain not only your 0.7% slip, but the worst is yet to come, since you are clearly missing EUR 10 billion in 2018. You have taken great measures to save money. You said to people, "We have to hurt you, but it's for the good of the country. It'll be better tomorrow." People got hurt. The measures were harsh and brutal. But where did the money go? Because in the meantime, the situation has not improved. You just mishandled it. Prime Minister, as if that were not enough, your government has opened a new episode to this bad series of government wars: "chaos and uncertainty are to the maximum". It is not the opposition that says so. He's your vice-first. "Chaos" and "uncertainty", the words are heavy. With a note from the Minister of Finance, a notice to the Conseil Supérieur des Finances and your comments, Prime Minister, to the VRT last week, you simply broke the speech you had made at the time of your October statement, when you were talking about both ISOC reform, savings mobilization and capital gains taxation. Cost of canife in your statements, stabbing also, if I may, in the back of the CD&V. Prime Minister, what is your budget? We report it every time. This time, we're promised by Monday. I'm waiting to see. I wonder if he'll be here on Monday. But is it not urgent, above all, to change course? As I pointed out, mobilization of savings, reform of ISOC for our SMEs and also taxation of capital gains. You yourself announced an investment plan for billions. It was your political return in September. There's still nothing. If: 100 million euros, that is true, in the 2017 budget. It's a peanut. Prime Minister, get together and, above all, change the course of this government as a whole!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, in recent days the budget has been seriously affected by bacon and even beans. I must say, the left-wing populism is thriving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u16	Mr Calvo, either you are in favour of more taxes or more savings. This government has a necessary and very complex reform agenda. Doing the same thing for a hundred years is very easy. What we are doing today is adapting to the international need to reform. One example of this is corporate tax. Look at the European average: 20.48 %. Italy even goes to 24%. Our neighbouring countries and major trading partners such as the UK have a plan to go up to 18%. Netherlands, for small businesses: 20%. We, with our 33.99 %, think all the time that we can contradict that with barnyards. Companies are leaving or considering it. It's true. Budgetary work is at hand. This is what this government is doing from the start, in particular to save money to ensure that the necessary reforms can also be carried out. We must continue to do so, we must make savings in order to carry out the reforms. Over the last few days, people have been talking about our income. Yes, we have a revenue problem, we are on average 6,6% higher than the rest of Europe with our income. The latest figures for this year mean that we get 0.1% more than in the Stability Pact. You need to learn to read the numbers. You shouldn't come here and tell fools, you should know what you're talking about! Prime Minister, I have a very simple question. This government had an important and difficult reform agenda at the outset. All the critics, all the downtime preachers, who are trying to stop the reforms today, must be I ask you whether the government is still prepared to pursue the reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, the disappointment must be great for you and for many people, and especially for those who, like me, have believed in you. After all, we once thought that the Michel administration was going to blow a new wind. However, you saw what is happening now. I did not take the floor here during budgetary control in June 2016. I left that to someone else because the budget was no longer credible to me. So, what's going on? In nominal terms, the deficit is greater than that of the Di Rupo government. I've heard it say, "We'll never rule with the PS." You don't need that PS. You've become the PS yourself. The Michel administration has become the PS. So you don't need them. Soon we will be on the European penitentiary, the penitentiary that Elio Di Rupo took us away from. The budget balance is in the fridge. Excuse me, Mr President, it's in the freezer. That's the second package in the freezer. In addition to the Community, the budget balance is now in the freezer. Everything that the majority here has denied in all keys now turns out to be true. The tax shift is underfunded. On the revenue side, there is a problem. On the expenditure side, there is a problem. These problems are not only explained by asylum and migration and by terror. The redesign would be worth EUR 750 million one day by 2020. Where is he? The redesign is gone and gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u18	He's in the fridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u19	No, Mr Calvo, he is not in the fridge, he flew directly into the budget hole with an F-35 from the Minister's office. There's the redesign. Show me the redesign. Where is he? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your government is also breaking up the electoral battle with Mr Peeters, who is going to live in Antwerp. You will have more work to do with the climate in your government than with the climate agreement. [[Hilarity]] That's why I have one question for you. What are you going to do? What measures will you take to ensure that we do not end up on the bench? I'm looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question on corporation tax, which was addressed to the Minister of Finance, was added to the questions on the budget. That is a pity, especially now that it appears that the Minister of Finance himself is no longer allowed to explain his crown jewel in Parliament. The file has been taken out of his hands and you are dealing with it now, Prime Minister. I think it's necessary. I have just heard Mr Van de Velde say that a reform of corporate taxation is necessary. It is indeed important that SMEs pay less and multinationals pay more in our country. But if there is one person who has caused chaos in that file, then it is your Minister of Finance, Mr Van de Velde, and I will explain why. Minister Van Overtveldt presents company reform A in the press. He then laid down plan B in the government. Eventually, as I understand it, he is delivering the Supreme Court of Finance Plan C. Now, that is the way to turn major reforms into the soup. In this way, tackling dossiers and putting a nose in the government means not taking matters seriously and refusing to work on them seriously. The bill doesn't add up either. That says not only the opposition, but also the chairman of the Finance Committee, on the basis of what he has read in the report of the Supreme Court of Finance, that we are once again faced with a 2 billion hole. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, is it true that your finance minister has given the Supreme Court a different plan for corporate tax reform than the one discussed in the government? This is now being contested and from your point of view you can keep these statements apart. I would like to hear that from you today. Secondly, who is right about the balance in the compensatory measures: your finance minister, who says it is budget-neutral, or the chairman of Parliament's finance committee, who says there is another gap in the budget? I would have liked to have heard your answer to those two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u21	Mr President, my first words go to Mr Vuye. Thank you for the humor. I'm impressed. A few months ago, I often heard you being particularly critical of the PS. Today you will receive applause from the PS. That's the power of change! Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is, of course, a difficult and serious matter. It is our choice to remain coherent and consistent. The government's intention is clear: at the same time, we need to clean up our public finances and support relance in parallel and create more jobs. Job creation is in the medium and long term the best guarantee for the sustainable reorganisation of our public finances. That's the choice of the majority of the government. I want to point out, of course, that when we are working on fiscal consolidation, we take seriously the remarks made by the European Commission in all areas, including the draft budgetary plan. In this regard, I would like to correct a few brief comments that have been made here or there. On the basis of two criteria: deficit and debt, the European Commission examines the budgetary situation 2016 and 2017 and finds – not only about the federal government, but also for entity 1, entity 2, federated entities and local authorities – that the different governments in our country have deviated from the objectives they had presented. You have raised a number of reasons, which we take into account. From the moment structural reforms are decided – such as the tax shift, measures to promote competitiveness and SMEs – it is therefore more complicated to estimate tax revenues with a high degree of certainty. However, since budgetary control, we have incorporated this reality. A task force took the decision to reform the estimate in order to obtain more certainty. We are therefore aware of the need to make progress in this regard. There is an important note from the FPS Finance to which we will work hard with the competent and involved departments to improve the estimation of our tax revenues. That's an important design. We also want to make progress in this area. The first point I want to stress is that we must indeed continue to improve our ability to earn returns when decisions and actions are taken. I would like to highlight a second point. I hear amazing things. Belgium is part of the preventive arm of the European Union, not of the repressive arm, like France. Of the six countries that have received the same mention as Belgium, we are the only one for which the Commission does not recommend any new or additional measures. I want to make it clear. What is it? The Commission wishes to have the certainty and guarantee that we will implement the reforms that have been decided. This shows that we must implement them and that we are on the right path. We must continue to work in that direction, and that is what we are going to do. As far as taxation is concerned, taxation is, of course, an important lever for the revival of our economy, for job creation and for the sustainable improvement of our budgets. I repeat what I have already said about this in the context of the budgetary discussions. For this majority, it is crucial to make progress in a logic of both economic efficiency and justice. Those two go together. One must strengthen the other. With regard to these elements, I confirm once again, and I imagine that I will do so regularly in this forum, that there are three topics on which we have decided to move forward. These are the reform of corporate tax, which is already under way, the question of capital gains, which will also be the subject of proposals, and the activation of savings to direct it towards the real economy. On these issues, I am extremely clear. I've indicated it again this week to the small firm. My intention is to meet personally next week with representatives of the Planning Office, the National Bank and the Supreme Council of Finance to discuss with these bodies how they can be involved in the decision-making process at the government level. In addition, two very important concerns will be addressed with them. What is the budgetary impact of the various possible decisions? In addition to the budgetary impact, what are the consequences, the positive consequences for our economy, for businesses and for sectors? To be quite clear, the opinion that has been requested is an opinion on the basis of a text that has not been validated by the government. The latter will appreciate the proposals for which coordination will be organised. I will control the schedule and, as Prime Minister, I will appreciate the time when the files will be ready for a decision within the government. In conclusion, Mr. President, we will keep this course. Indeed, as the Commission also says, with the latter, 140 000 jobs are announced by 2018. This is the demonstration that our commitments and reforms are bearing fruit and will continue to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, I am disappointed by your answer, but I would like to make one positive point. Mr Van Overtveldt, the Prime Minister said here that you sent a text on corporation tax to the Supreme Court of Finance, which was not even discussed at the Council of Ministers. I think it is an absolute disgrace that an important reform, such as that of corporate taxation for our SME debt holders, should be mismanaged in such a way. That is outrageous, Mr Van Overtveldt. Our SMEs deserve better. Prime Minister, you said you were consistent and coherent. You are indeed consistent. You are consistent in ignoring the problem. The N-VA says there is a budgetary problem. A well of billions, according to the N-VA, is a budgetary problem. And it is not only the imbalance in the budget, but also the imbalance in society that makes us so angry and so concerned. I am thinking of the many invoices, of the lack of investment. Where are the investments in clean energy and in trains that run on time? You are consistent in talking about reforms, but the shift, the fair contribution of the biggest assets, the corporate tax, you leave behind, while those measures need to be implemented. We have to do these things, we have to do them both, a real reform government would do that. You are fearfully consistent, unfortunately, in your policy choices. And that's the N-VA's perfide strategy. Anything that still smells like just taxation is sabotaged by Johan Van Overtveldt, put on the Greek calendar. Then again and again, budgetary control after budgetary control, to make invoices every six months to people who are having a hard time, to people who are sick, to pensioners, to people who are working. That's the N-VA's perfide strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u23	Mr Calvo, last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Prime Minister, we must stop this strategy. If we start a fair tax, we can give a lot of perspective and hope to our citizens and businesses, Mr De Roover. The N-VA's been leaving it behind for two years. Mr De Roover, I tell you that you are bothered by the call for justice and bored, you find that ambitant, but that call will only sound louder. I can guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed explanation, but I asked you one question and I did not receive an answer. What about the important commitment in your government agreement to the budget balance in 2018? Your Minister for the Budget himself said yesterday that it is no longer a priority. Are you gonna let that go or not? In September, we heard from the press that the N-VA has already released it. However, the N-VA itself made the commitment of this coalition agreement in 2018 of that budget balance. It is, as it were, the reason for this coalition's existence. Do you remember that this was the reason for the Community's standstill, ladies and gentlemen? This was all about doing it. That promise, in exchange for the Community's omerta, to put the budget in order, remains nothing. No one believes today that you will ever get the numbers back in order. Professor of Economics Peersman said some time ago that he would eat his shoe if this government achieves a budget balance. If you abandon this, for you so essential commitment from the coalition agreement, then for once you must be consistent: abandon the Community's standstill, the condition attached to it. Without institutional reform, you will not be able to put socio-economic order in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u26	Prime Minister, when are you going to stop minimising the problem? We've been two years. The opposition has informed you that your numbers are incorrect. That wasn't so bad. The Planning Bureau has informed you that your numbers are incorrect. That wasn't so bad, either. CD&V, who sits at your table in your own majority, said the numbers don't add up. That's not so bad. The European Commission gives you an incompetence. That is not so bad, because there are countries that are doing much worse. We have been given an inadequate figure, but it is not such a disaster. Prime Minister, the people have surrendered for two years. They ask themselves how this will help them. They get a budget that is not in order. They don't get perspective. They do not get prospects which make them feel that they are getting better. Yet you continue to ignore the problems. The only consistency in your policy, Prime Minister, will ultimately be that we will be constantly in the red.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u27	Prime Minister, today your assessment is your ball. For the past two years, you have imposed unbearable sacrifices on the population. You've been sticking around in people's pockets to fill your holes. All this for a negative economic balance. And your employment figures are bogus, and you know that, Prime Minister. In addition to this very bad balance sheet, it is well known, a failure in the management of public finances. Not only are you impoverishing the population, but you also leave it with a bill that you will ask it to pay a second time. With you, it's very clear, the population always pays twice. Because, and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, behind the public accounts, there is the portfolio of our fellow citizens. And that's why your fiscal policy is totally unacceptable. You don't manage well, but it doesn't matter, it's the others who pay. That is the reality of your government. In any company, you would be asked to return your apron. So the minimum, Prime Minister, would be to hear what people have to tell you. They're tired of your policy. It's high time you could hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u28	Prime Minister, you are trying to beautify the situation. You're trying terribly well to do it. You do not remind us that the debt is increasing, that the deficit is increasing, that you have created far fewer jobs than several neighbouring countries. And every week, in the House, you try to run after your ministers and say, "I'm the leader, I'm the one who decides!" Meanwhile, the tiring continues. Everyone pulls on their side within your government. The worst of all, Prime Minister, is the consequences. The consequences for citizens first. You have imposed harsh measures on them, brutal measures. It's all for nothing! Then, and that's the worst, for businesses. Which investor wants to come to Belgium when he sees, week after week, this bad saga on ISOC, on the mobilization of savings towards the real economy or on the taxation of capital gains? This instability is the worst for investors. This instability is the worst for our companies too! I would have waited for you today for a little humility; for you to say, "It's true, it's dirty, it's difficult!" I would have waited for you to make a clear commitment to present us, before Christmas, with a comprehensive plan on these various points and on the investment plan that you promised three months ago. You didn't! But it is your responsibility; your responsibility to the citizens, your responsibility to the companies. In a word as in a hundred: reunite yourself for this government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u29	Prime Minister, I am grateful to you for the government's perseverance in implementing the reform agenda, which is not easy and under your full weight. I would like to hear the opposition parties tell us in 2019 how the lowest wages increased by EUR 125 net. Go explain that in 2019. Indeed, our SMEs deserve better. We want them to pay less taxes. It makes sense for the Minister of Finance to do his job. It makes sense for the Prime Minister to coordinate. Minister Peeters, for the final part of my answer, I will teach you something Antwerp. The largest firm in Antwerp that clears cesspools is called "the Ruimmerke ". I am addressing all Members of this House on the opposition side. The government has cleared more fiscal shit in the time it is busy than the Ruimmarke in Antwerp can clear its entire existence. We have had to revise the liquidation bonus. The 300 percent sample fines were not feasible. The 1.5 percent tax for the conversion of securities to bearer is illegal. To the extent of disaster, your fairness tax is today regarded as unjust by the Advocate General of the European Court. That tax of 5.15 percent now has a lot of claims hanging over the government. Prime Minister, you're doing a wonderful job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u30	Prime Minister, let me tell you something. You're a man after my heart. I never thought you would say here, in plenary session, that the strength of change is with me and Mrs Wouters, which means that it is no longer with the N-VA, but above, with us. I never thought I'd do that. Thank you for that. You're also a man after my heart because you're proving what I've been saying for a long time. You cannot make structural savings with a Community standstill. A Community standstill also implies a reform freeze. What happens to your government? You refuse the cheap savings that you can find in the reform of the institutions. You refuse to pick that low-hanging fruit and save it there. So you need to save on places where it hurts people. I can only recommend you to stop the Community's standstill. Start putting order in the chaos of the institutions and you will be a lot further. Finally, I would like to address the ministers who said at the time that they would put the accounts in order in the coming period until 2019 and go for the Community in 2019. I already know what the message will be in 2019: we are still working, we must continue our work and we will put the Community in the refrigerator for another five years. Then you will have had ten years of Community standstill and then you will have mopped for ten years with the crane open. Unfortunately, this is not going to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, in any case you have clarified one of my questions, in particular as to whether the Minister of Finance has sent the Supreme Court a different plan of corporate tax reform than what has been discussed in the government. You confirmed that, which actually confirms Kris Peeters' lecture. In itself, that is bizarre, because I understood that when you spoke in the government of corporation tax during the summer, the new corporate tax was ready to go. The corporate tax reform was budgetaryly neutral. Nothing had to be changed and it could be decided immediately. It was only because CD&V came up with the added value tax that she didn't get there. I now note that you confirm that this ready-made document has not been sent to the Supreme Court, but that apparently another plan has now been sent to the Supreme Court. You say today that something like this can be done for you, Prime Minister, that something like this can be done, that this is the normal course of action in your government, because you will discuss it afterwards. Prime Minister, you must realise that this is putting serious pressure on the leadership of the government, on your leadership. If you cannot keep the two kemphanes apart in this way and then you are right and another time, but not a line, then the government has no leader today, and I am blaming you for that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say is that the Chodiev case is calling on us. We're asking ourselves questions. Who makes the law? Who corrects the law? How is the law done? How does the law apply? These are fundamental issues in a rule of law. As parliamentarians, we have the right to ask ourselves whether, in the Chodiev case, we have not been manipulated or instrumentalized. The Chodiev case reveals an interlacing of, to say the least, dangerous relations between a group of persons with official functions at the level of our three powers. I am not even talking about the influence that other people could have had from outside on the holders of political, administrative or jurisdictional functions. Information is under way. It is coming to an end, according to the Minister of Justice. The results of this information can be used by the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the drafting and enforcement of the law on the criminal transaction that we might constitute. Prime Minister, for the time being, I cannot help asking two questions. Firstly, would it not be time, if not urgent, to correct the Criminal Code, and in particular its article 247, § 4, in order to prevent the lobbies of any acabit from having a decisive influence on the drafting of the law and on the exercise of the judicial function? Secondly, is there really a need to allow magistrates to hold part-time political positions in a ministerial cabinet? Is it permissible for these same people to take advantage of this double cap to deal with the same concrete dossier in two different aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, the case before us is that of an international financial offender, Mr Chodiev, who escaped a trial in 2011 thanks to the criminal transaction established in Belgium, on the basis of a rather frightening chain of influence. Indeed, Mr. Chodiev and his acolytes are putting pressure on the Kazakh State, which is putting pressure on the French State, which is putting pressure on the Belgian State, which is putting pressure on the Senate and the House. Finally, the public prosecutor's office is under multiple pressures. All this with the intervention of the former Speaker of the Senate, who is a member of your party. That is indeed very challenging, Prime Minister. What is particularly frightening, although so many things are on this file, is the eagerness with which the House and the Senate passed this law, in a totally imperfect manner, in 2011. The pressures concern different parties: yours, Prime Minister, but also the CD&V in which a General Counsel has three different caps. It belongs to both the judiciary, the executive and the legislature. Let us also point out the role of the then Minister of Justice, who gave the order not to enter into a criminal transaction in the period between the two laws, the original law and the restorative law. However, the attorneys general said to him, "We're still going to do it." As a result of all these problems, Prime Minister, I have different questions for you. Do you believe that the separation of powers has been respected in this case? Has the independence of the Belgian State been respected with regard to foreign States and private interests? Did the then Minister of Justice respond to the letter that the then Attorney General had sent to him, saying that transactions would be concluded, when he had formally demanded the opposite? Did he respond to or respond to this letter that he received from the President of the College? Is it normal for a former Speaker of the Senate to go to the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice about a case where he is merely a lawyer? Is this system of criminal transaction, which is a class justice system, normal? In other words, is it normal that in 2011, a simple citizen found himself in court because he had taken two packages of muffins from a GB's trash, and a month later, an international bandit like Chodiev escapes the court simply because he had money and influence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, the new John Le Carré is available day after day, week after week in Belgian and international newspapers. We take a former president of the Senate who, at the time of a case, puts on his toge, plays the towel racks for a foreign power and for billionaires entangled in a vast case of fraud and rallies – to open doors and play his influence – fees to the tune of 700,000 euros. Everything in the hardened corridors of courts and tribunals, the Senate and ministerial offices. Add great jurists, attorneys general, attorneys general, clear circulars, more troubled decisions. All the ingredients are: betrayals, big money, rich foreign businessmen, Elysée, magistrates, senators, ministers, deputies, custom-made suspicion of justice. It does not surprise me, moreover, that we are talking so much about Sarkozy. Prime Minister, unfortunately, we are not in a novel. I want to point it out. Unlike others, I will not say that there is no smoke without fire; the presumption of innocence is fundamental. Everyone is presumed innocent. Nevertheless, all the revelations in this file are extremely disturbing. How to explain the role of Mr. De Decker, what is said today to have intervened in 2010 with a Attorney General, and who else? How can we be sure that the separation of powers has been respected by all parties? How can we be sure that no one has tried to facilitate the processing of a court case? How can we explain that it is not the College of Attorneys General that adopts a circular to prevent any transaction before the passage of restorative legislation, when it was announced in the Senate? How is it that a circular from the Attorney General was not respected by the Advocate General? All these questions are disturbing, according to the press – and I note that she is well informed in this regard – the heavyweights of your party, but above all they are damaging the image of our country and questioning the ethical sense of some high-ranking representatives of the state, but not only. Questions also arise in terms of respect for the separation of powers. So, Prime Minister, how are we going to lift this suspicion of confusion of powers? Do you think, as we do today, that a committee of inquiry is needed to remove the shadows and to verify that the principle of the separation of powers has indeed been respected, to verify that there has been no trade in influence? Prime Minister, there is an urgent need to shed light.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u35	Prime Minister, this Kazakhgate case has everything to do with the state. First there is the role of the senator, burmese, lobbyist, royally paid, Armand De Decker. So far, his party has considered that what he himself had admitted in the press as his role – going on a Sunday with the Minister of Justice to try to convince him to pass a law for the benefit of someone he was defending – is no big deal. We will see if you have the opportunity to meet his president, do not hesitate to talk to him about it! I heard that an appointment was scheduled on Monday and the following Monday. I will follow this carefully. But this is obviously the responsibility of Mr. De Decker. There is also a lack of respect for fundamental democratic principles. The sovereignty of our State has been violated. It was a neighbouring State that pressured us to adopt, in circumstances that we denounced at the time, a law that fundamentally changed the way in which justice was done in Belgium. All three powers were affected. The Kern, at the time, gave its green light to this manoeuvre, to this agreement. The House and then the Senate passed this law under really difficult conditions. We played our opposition role there at the time by pointing to the problems of this law. Justice has not enforced the law. It did not apply the instructions of the Attorney General at the time. The feeling of businessism, which may be that of the citizens who are trying to understand this issue and who realize that something very serious is happening, of the scandal order, which does not happen every five, ten or twenty years, is enormous. Prime Minister, it will take a lot to restore confidence, like fundamental reforms against conflict of interest to avoid this type of issue. First and foremost, it will be necessary for our Parliament to be able to clarify all the dossiers and all the dossiers. That is why we are calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. It is Parliament's responsibility. I will still ask you to speak on behalf of the majority to see if you support the principle of this commission of inquiry and, more in your role as Prime Minister, I would like a commitment on your part - because I have no doubt that it will happen - to collaborate with this commission of inquiry and to give us access to all the useful documents of the government's work at the time, in the first half of 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Chodiev-De Decker case is taking the turn of a state scandal. Mr. De Decker, a man who enjoyed an unquestionable respectability, believed, driven by reasons which still elude me, that he had to respond to the call of the entourage of the President of the French Republic in a dark negotiation of the sale of helicopters from France to the unrecommended president of an ex-state of the USSR. Mr. De Decker suddenly had the memory that his lawyer's dress had been hanging at the nail for a number of years and that, therefore, he had, of course, a vocation as a great criminal lawyer unknown, which had to be revived so that he could assume such a special role in such a delicate matter, but that only he, so close to certain French circles, could consider honourable. All this would reveal a great naivety if first there had not been the known financial conclusion in the head of lawyer De Decker but above all, if there had not been a work of influence with different powers. So, when we assumed the highest responsibilities of the state, like Mr. De Decker, even in the pursuit of a professional activity as honorable as that of a lawyer, there are people who are not around, whom we do not meet and whose defence we do not take. It is the meaning of the height of the office which must be held on behalf of the State which prevails over that, although honourable, of a lawyer, but which in this case cannot tarnish the prestige of the functions which have been assumed on behalf of the State. Mr. De Decker made other choices. But who could believe it? Who could finally believe that Mr. De Decker, despite his very personal relations in Paris, was chosen because in fact he was known for his past as a criminal lawyer at the Bar of Brussels? And so, today, we discover that several powers may have been influenced by a dark game. Of two things, one, on behalf of the majority government, Prime Minister, you prefer to remain silent and, in a way, you will be complicit in what is taking on the dimension of a state scandal. Either you plead for the upsurge and credibility of the institutions and you can only accept the request to set up a commission of inquiry. I look forward to your response as Prime Minister and not as leader of a party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have highlighted this and I, in turn, want to express it clearly: the separation of powers is an essential principle in order to guarantee the democratic character of our institutions and, as Prime Minister and Head of Government, I want to reaffirm how much we must, together, be particularly committed to this principle. Questions have been raised and I want to be clear on this. I hope that absolutely all the light can be made, without any ambiguity. Therefore, it is clear to me that the government will cooperate to help clarify the facts that have been raised. In this context, I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice has already answered several questions in committee. I will not go back to his reference to the legislative path of the texts in question relating to criminal transactions which would have been concluded in Brussels or elsewhere as a result of the two legislations, taking into account the period during which questions were raised. Secondly, precisely because I respect the separation of powers, I consider, Mr Maingain, that it is not for me, as head of government, to give instructions to Parliament on how to exercise democratic control. Parliament is the master of the instruments intended to monitor the government! We are extremely clear: we will cooperate each time with the institutions that will ask the executive branch to cooperate in order to shed light on this important matter. I'll close with a word. As has been said, the height of a democracy, the honor of a democracy is to be able to work, in some cases, to ensure absolute transparency, so that citizens' confidence in the institutions is assured. It is in this spirit that the government will work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u38	Prime Minister, you recall the prerogatives of parliamentary control. One of these prerogatives is precisely to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the subject, and I hear the message well. I also asked two questions. [[One related to the reform of the Criminal Code in relation to trafficking in influence.]] You didn't answer that. The other related to the presence of magistrates in ministerial offices. You didn't answer that. I hope that these non-responses are an invitation to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to make legislative proposals on the subject with a view to resolving this type of detestable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u39	Prime Minister, the brevity of your answer is revealing. What is at stake here is a very serious matter about which you have not given any light. In my view, the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is necessary to remove all the mysteries that revolve around this matter. Moreover, behind this specific case, there is the even more fundamental problem of the extended criminal transaction that allows class justice, which allows people like Chodiev to escape justice through a trade of influence and money, while the ordinary person is easily tried and convicted. It could be said that with this justice, the poor one is cooked and the rich one is believed! Indeed, Prime Minister, we are faced with a situation where your party, in particular, is directly linked to a trade of influence with a former Speaker of the Senate who is charged €740,000 for 350 hours of supposed work, which is €2,114 per hour. This amount corresponds to twice the amount received by pensioners today, pensioners whom your government attacks simultaneously through a policy of austerity to which the world of work is a victim. Prime Minister, we are in a situation that can no longer be endured by the people and by the workers. You will have to fundamentally review this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u40	Prime Minister, we must not hide behind the answers provided by the Minister of Justice. If we come back to you today to ask you questions, it is precisely because the answers given by the Minister of Justice in full transparency have raised new questions. The only thing we are saying is that we need to organise this committee of inquiry. You say that it is not up to you to decide in the place of parliament, but that you will collaborate, and the government too. In other circumstances, you have said that you want Parliament to deal with the establishment of a commission of inquiry into terrorist attacks, and we have done so. You say you will work together; it means to me that you support the creation of a commission of inquiry. You are right, the honor of a democracy is transparency. On the other hand, the honour of politics is to be able to play a role in certain slogans. It consists of saying that yesterday, perhaps, ruled rich justice, poor justice, and class justice. But we are in a democratic country. We don't work like that. You have to be able to say it loud and clear. I therefore expect your party to respond to the assertions of an MR heavyweight: "We have to solve the problem right away. I do not understand that Charles Michel, who is always hyper-prudent, does not act." I therefore hope that we will have this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u41	Minister, as far as the fate of Mr. De Decker, we'll wait, with a lot of curiosity. Above all, I take positive note of your commitment to actively cooperate in the work of the Committee of Inquiry, which I do not doubt after your remarks, will be set up by this Parliament. I hope that we will get answers more easily than so far. Since 2011, I have been asking the successive Ministers of Justice on a regular basis and it is very difficult to extract answers from them. But more fundamentally, Prime Minister, do not misunderstand the anger of the citizens at such an affair, in the face of such serious facts. They are calling for reforms on the part of your majority and your government in the area of governance, against conflict of interest, against the cumulation of mandates, for justice that is no longer class justice, where apple thieves are prosecuted and where financial crime is left unpunished. Because that is what is happening in Belgium today and that is what this Kazakhgate reveals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u42	Mr President, I take the Prime Minister's response as an invitation to the majority of governments to accept the initiative to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. If the majority does not want to respond to your call for transparency, then your government would indeed put an obstacle to the separation of powers and would ultimately refuse to allow the House to assume the fullness of its powers and prerogatives. I therefore expect the majority to join the unanimous will of the democratic opposition to set up this parliamentary committee of inquiry, because regardless of the aspects of criminal responsibility – that we will appreciate the time when the conclusions of the work carried out by the prosecutor's office, which should perhaps one day consider putting the matter to trial, this is another debate – there will in any case be a debate on political responsibility and on the ethical rules that are imposed on the representatives of the people. A behavior like that of Mr. De Decker is widening the gap between voters and political representatives. This weighs even more heavily than other cases. It is a matter where it is felt that a politician has moved beyond any consideration of respect for the functions he has assumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u43	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, in December 2015, our Parliament was modernizing the Act of 21 March 1991 to allow two of our flagships, bpost and Proximus, to face the challenges facing these two companies in a rapidly changing, highly competitive market. Do I have to remind you that postal activity is under constant pressure with the digitalisation of our company, digitalisation which involves changes in customer behaviour but also a permanent adaptation of postal services and the way in which these companies operate? The results are there to attest to this, with a mail activity in sharp decline for several years but also with an expanding parcel activity, thanks in particular to e-commerce. As a result of these legislative changes, we have given bpost the opportunity to create subsidiaries, take stakes and strengthen the rules of good governance. Today, bpost wishes to pursue its strategy of innovation and growth, which has so far been a win-win, in particular by carrying out acquisitions, which is commonplace in a competitive activity such as this, but which is also proof of good health for a Belgian company to manoeuvre in these operations. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what conclusions do you draw from the succession of events and the closed reaction of the Dutch authorities? Can you give us your vision of the role of the State? What role should it play? The State is a majority shareholder in bpost. What guarantees can you provide to ensure that we can maintain a quality service and sustain employment in this sector of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, the honourable Member has already said: bpost has lost sight of cooperation with PostNL. That is not surprising, because in recent years bpost has become one of Europe's most performing postal companies. This is, of course, primarily due to the 26 000 employees, but also to the future strategy of management and the board of directors. The challenge for bpost is to keep this positive dynamic going. Bpost operates in an increasingly international and digital sector, with a shift from traditional postal activities to e-commerce parcel delivery. In this respect, combining with PostNL is a logical step. This company is perfectly complementary to bpost, partly because of PostNL's strong position on the parcel market in the Netherlands. The two postal companies together would be the fourth in Europe in terms of turnover and the third in terms of profitability. This is a perfect marriage for the two partners, both in terms of financial figures, market demand and employment opportunities in the Netherlands and Belgium. And yet, Minister, the friendly bid of bpost over the Moerdijk is being hostilely received. It is reported that the Dutch are concerned about the shareholding of the Belgian State in bpost, despite the amended legislation to which my colleague referred. I am surprised by that; hence a number of questions. Is this concern of our Dutch fellow Members justified? After a possible takeover, can the Belgian State promote Belgium's investment, employment and services to the detriment of the Netherlands? You had a conversation yesterday with your Dutch colleague, Mr Kamp. Can you tell us how that conversation went and what you talked about? What next steps should be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not so numerous, but the sound that is produced is quite impressive for such a small group. May I ask you to have respect for the speakers, the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u46	Mr President, I am pleased that my two predecessors of liberal signature agree with me that a public body can do very well. You have both paid tribute to bpost, a public undertaking that is doing very well. If I go back to today's topic, I think we should be able to get these companies to talk to each other. I actually think it is a paradox that the Dutch government says to PostNL that it should not talk to that Belgian company because it is a public company. Understand who can. I believe that this merger can have added value. A market can be created for 28 million inhabitants. If we look at both companies, there are few overlaps and there is rather a complement. Moreover, one would become the fourth player in the European market, which is actually important for consolidation and not to be taken over. For our party there are a number of mares in this story. It must not be done on behalf of the employees and the customers. PostNL, as you know, actually works with contracts of employment which can be questioned. It's about maximum part-time work. Quite often it is not about employment contracts, but about additional tasks for housewives, pensioners and students. The parcel market works with piece wages which sometimes makes parcel delivery guys drive around the streets like crazy because they are forced to deliver everything by a certain time. Nor is bpost free from sin, because I have asked you a question earlier about the flagging out of computer science in order to make more profit. However, all this must not happen in the face of customers. I believe that people in rural municipalities such as Brakel and Heist-op-den-Berg have the same right to a good service as in cities. A stamp must be just as expensive. I'll come to my questions. We have already read many messages. Where are we today? Have you been in contact with your Dutch counterpart? What was said there? Are you prepared, as a majority shareholder, to ensure that management will always take the respect and interest of those employees and customers into account in these talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u47	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you: how far are you ready to go to privatize La Poste, to achieve your ends? Two attempts by the bpost management and board of directors failed. You, you go all the way to the Netherlands to sacrifice La Poste, which is now an autonomous public enterprise. At the same time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you refuse to see the representatives of the workers who asked you for an interview. I have two letters on this subject. As Mrs Lijnen has said, if La Poste is one of the most successful companies in Europe – and we are proud of it – it is thanks to the 25,000 workers you refuse to meet today, as you go to a Dutch minister to sell La Poste and its workers and thus weaken the state's presence in this company. That's the reality! Deputy Prime Minister, the workers would have wanted to ask you a question. The Post Office is talking about two and a half billion. Meanwhile, we again evoke an umpteenth Georoute to save a few euros or a few cents on the back of workers' productivity. They can't, as you know. It seems that you often discuss with your mailman. Loss of public status means loss of management contract. So stop justifying your choice in the name of a better service! A management contract imposes public service tasks for the citizen and the general interest. How are you going to do that? You mention the creation of 3,000 jobs, when a Dutch analyst claims that no merger has ever created jobs in any country. Deputy Prime Minister, why did you refuse to meet the workers? What were the exchanges with your Dutch counterpart? How high are you prepared to increase the price of the action and reduce the federal state's participation in bpost? For us, it must remain a public enterprise, employment must be maintained, the quality of employment must be safeguarded. We do not want workers at the discount, as is the case in the Netherlands. My colleague Foret rightly pointed out that we had changed the law to employ false part-time self-employed women and housewives who were supposed to bring our mail. This is neither our company project nor that of a public company!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u48	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, and for a few days now, the press has been echoing discussions between bpost and PostNL about a possible marriage between the two companies. It can be noted positively that bpost manifests its willingness to purchase to remain or to become a European leader in postal services. It is true that in Belgium, we are rather used to seeing family jewels leave rather than maintaining them or keeping them at home. We believe that it is better to take the initiative of consolidation rather than to undergo it. In this case, if the negotiations could succeed, this group would become the fourth largest postal operator in Europe and position itself in a much stronger way. Minister, you have suggested that bpost negotiates this project alone, but is it really in complete freedom? What is the government's position on these negotiations? Did the government intervene? Or has he set a framework for negotiations, knowing that the Belgian state is still a majority shareholder, as my colleagues have pointed out? Secondly, Mr Minister, you met yesterday with your Dutch counterpart, Henk Kamp. I guess that file was put on the table. What can you tell us about your discussions with him?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, I would like to make one point very clear. The Dutch concern for interference by the Belgian State is totally unjustified. Bpost governance standards are perfectly comparable to those of other listed companies. Bpost makes his own decisions, without interference from the outside. Those decisions shall be taken by the Executive Board and by the Management Board. I want to be very clear: a government does not intervene in this. And that is a good thing. It is an Indian story that the Belgian State would hang over Dutch interests as a kind of dark shadow and favour Belgium. That is absolutely not the case. The governance structure of bpost does not allow this. Besides, the private shareholders of bpost would not accept in any way that the Belgian authorities would intervene. As already mentioned, about a year ago, we also amended the law to ensure that bpost is managed in exactly the same way as a publicly listed private company. I did indeed have a meeting yesterday with my Dutch colleague Henk Kamp, on his question, in Brussels. Mrs Lalieux, it wasn't in the Netherlands, it was here in Brussels! The purpose of that conversation was not to negotiate. The negotiations must take place between the two companies. The executives, the boards of directors and the supervisory board must do so. Politics has to stay out of that. I have also stressed this with regard to my Dutch colleague. It is true that in the past few months the Dutch side has repeatedly asked to intervene in the management or board of directors of bpost. The Belgian Government's answer was very clear: it does not work that way in Belgium. It is not a matter of politics, it is a matter of management of companies and boards of directors of companies to do so. Some questions relate to the implications for collaborators. As many of you have mentioned, bpost is a modern company, a company at the forefront of development in Europe, thanks to the work of its 26,000 workers. On the other hand, I was able to see that the employees' representatives were disappointed by PostNL's negative response, which proves that the bpost initiative is largely supported by its workers. I would also like to stress that I clearly understand that four of the five people who have asked the question in this House are positive about the initiative of bpost. As far as workers' rights are concerned, you know very well that, in the legislation we discussed a year ago, workers' rights will be fully protected, regardless of the scenario chosen. A royal decree will be issued setting out the acquired rights of statutory staff. It was exactly the same method that was used in the past, for example when BIAC was privatized. I will not anticipate the scenario scenarios that can develop. Again, these are talks to be held by the executives, the boards of directors and the supervisory boards. It is not up to me, nor to the government, nor to politics, to speak on this issue, especially because it concerns listed companies. I come to the question of the public service mission. As you know, it does not depend on whether it is carried out by a public undertaking or not. You know that if this company changes its status, this public service will continue. I hope you agree with me that we need to give a company as a bpost its autonomy in order to build its own future. The clarification I have given to my Dutch colleague Henk Kamp is the same as that I am giving here, in particular that the negotiations must be conducted by both companies and that political intervention is no longer required.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u50	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I will not enter into a sterile ideological debate. Rather, I will show pragmatism by reminding that bpost is evolving in a competitive field, with an important digital reality. Everyone uses the new means of communication. In this context, it is important to safeguard a quality service and to sustain employment. This is one of our priorities. I will also be optimistic that the guarantees that have been included in the 1991 Act are threefold: the Belgian anchor must be respected, there must be growth and employment, and the strategy's interest in the decision must be maintained. Mrs Lalieux, you see that the government takes these elements into account in order to ensure that there is a real strategy for employment and quality of service and that Belgium can exist on the map of Europe. Deputy Prime Minister, continue like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I would like to go back to the Dutch situation, because I find it remarkable that a Dutch minister agrees that Dutch state-owned companies, 100% owned by the Dutch State, take over foreign private companies in the gas sector, but that he does make it a problem that the Belgian State would have a minority share in a listed combination of PostNL and bpost. Allow me to say that the Dutch government measures with two sizes and two weights. Minister, bpost and PostNL are complementary in the postal market. It is therefore clear that both companies can grow by joining forces. Mrs Lalieux, additional investments and additional job creation would result in up to 3 200 additional jobs being created in Belgium and the Netherlands. It would therefore be particularly unfortunate if that operation could not take place. Allow me to address the Dutch Government with her Prime Minister Rutte. I have heard very well today and noted that the Belgian State is not interfering in the negotiations. It is a matter of two companies and not of the political world. It is a pity, therefore, that the Dutch Government is putting its political weight on the table in order to thwart a logical cooperation. Mr President, I will conclude with a direct message to Prime Minister Rutte. Liberals are not nationalists. Liberals are not protectionists. Let us give PostNL and bpost every opportunity to take the lead in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have made it clear that, in our view, this merger can bring added value. However, we do want a proper framework. Staff members at bpost say that they have already given a lot in the past. There is already a great deal of flexibility. A regular postman doesn't live above his standards. Postmen receive a moderate wage. So we want a good framework so that the workers, who have already made efforts, will not get an ass-pump later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u53	You didn't convince us, Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, once again, the strengthening of the industrial bpost project is not taboo for us. It is under socialist ministers that the post has become what it is today. But you didn't tell us about an industrial project, the Dutch analyst, and the creation of 3,000 jobs. You did not tell us why you did not receive the representatives of the workers you probably respect so much. The workers are so much with you and with the AC in your reform that notice of strike is on the table, Deputy Prime Minister! Stop lying here. You do ideology. As you said at the beginning of your term of office, you want to privatize public enterprises without an industrial project. That's what you do, and it's a real hold-up for workers and citizens. The post office is above all a service to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u54	Deputy Prime Minister, we agree that the decision-making centres remain in Belgium. We weren't talking about interference. It is important for us that these centres stay at home. Only you said that it should not be a political matter. We do not ask that this be the case, but it is still a matter of state. The State is still the main shareholder. For us, it is important that you come back to us about this decision. You told us about what you didn't discuss with your counterpart, but you didn't tell us what you talked about. We therefore remain a little on our hunger. We still think of the workers involved in this decision; it is not a political matter, but a matter of state, and we would like to have a little return.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u55	Mr President, Minister, a press conference is currently taking place at Zaventem Airport from Brussels Airport Company, with Mr Feist, who is developing his plans to double the number of passengers in Zaventem from 240 000 to 500 000 by 2040. I am also ships of Spatial Planning and Environment in Zaventem. After his press conference, the ships are invited to say in half an hour what implications that plan has for the use of jobs in the Zaventem area. One extends a runway by 800 meters, which will allow many more aircraft to land, but because that runway will be four kilometers long, it can also be used for take-off. Planes that will take off there can do so on two sides: towards Kortenberg-Leuven and towards Zaventem-centrum, where I live. Then they take the bend to the left towards air beacon Huldenberg and they arrive in Sterrebeek and Tervuren. In concrete terms, this means that in the future, if that job were to be used, half of all flights on Zaventem would go along the Flemish eastern edge towards Leuven, Sterrebeek, Tervuren and Zaventem-centrum. This is interesting for Brussels, because it avoids the Brussels Region. I do not have to tell you that this is unacceptable. The mayor of Steenokkerzeel has already spoken of a second Goal and the mayor of Kortenberg talks about the inviability of Erps-Kwerps. I'm from Zaventem. Mr President, what has been the intention of Brussels Airport Company? You are working on a distribution plan and then BAC comes up with something that will cause discussion and one part of the region will have to bear the greatest burden, so that that region will become unviable. I live near the airport, one kilometer from the runway. If we get half of all day flights there, it will become unliving in Zaventem. Have you been informed by Brussels Airport Company? How sensitive is BAC to creating a basis for the expansion of the airport when it makes that statement so unilaterally?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u56	Mr President, Minister, Zaventem Airport, Brussels-International, is Belgium's second economic pole, with 20 000 direct jobs and 40 000 indirect jobs. It creates an added value of 3.2 billion a year, 1.8 % of GDP. 2016 has been a difficult year for our airport. The attack on 22 March was very difficult, but was handled in a very human and professional way by the people in the airport. We must wish the CEO of the airport and his entire team congratulations for the serene and professional way in which they have solved this. In recent decades, investments have already been made at the airport. Pier A and Pier B were built and recently the connector was added. That connector is an example in the world of how passenger handling should be done. People come from a long way to look at that. It is good that Brussels Airport is looking to the future again today. The compass of Brussels Airport points back to the future, towards growth. The growth in the aviation sector is global. If Zaventem airport cannot grow, be sure that the airports around us will grow Paris, Schiphol, the German airports, and that they will walk with our passengers, our packages and our jobs. The proposed growth plan contains good measures, but there are also a number of unrealistic measures, such as the extension of job 25L. More economic activity does not mean that there must be more nuisance for the environment. Growth must be done with respect for the locals. Economic growth can only be achieved if there is legal certainty for the airlines and for the airport. Minister, you are responsible for providing that legal certainty. I have two questions about this. What role do you see for yourself in this dossier to carry out the long-term vision of the growth of Brussels airport? When will you provide legal certainty in the form of a flight law to the airport and to the airlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u57	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard in the press that Brussels Airport Company was currently working on a long-term vision for the national airport, a vision that would go through the expansion of its facilities. Brussels Aiport would be thinking in particular about the extension of runway 25L. Although the airport is an economic asset – we will all agree to recognize it – both for our country and for its capital, it is clear that we can only look at its development from this particular perspective. In my view, this development must also be carried out in concert and in harmony with the Brussels people. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the federal parliamentarian who speaks, but today he is also a Brussels elected official. And I can tell you that the inhabitants of the Brussels Region are overwhelmed, exhausted by the noise pollution they have been suffering for years. Brussels and its million inhabitants are not a take-off route and Brusselsers too have the right to improve their quality of life. You have announced a comprehensive solution, a structural solution to this problem of overflight and the resulting nuisances. Where are you in your thinking? What would be the practical consequences of the extension of runway 25L as proposed by Brussels Airport Company?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u58	My colleague, the questions that you are asking me illustrate one aspect of the complexity inherent in the issue of noise pollution management, namely the balance between the economic role of the airport and respect for the residents. To sum up the Government's position, I quote from the Government's statement: "In view of the particular importance of Brussels Airport for the economy and employment in our country, the Government will support the economic development of the airport taking into account the living conditions of the residents and of all citizens experiencing noise. My approach to the matter is to integrate all the actors and all the subjects with the constraints that govern the aeronautical matter. To imagine that a simple solution exists is illusory. On the other hand, I can confirm that, after identifying the seven components that set the framework for this issue, namely the technical, operational, environmental, economic, legal, and of course political and institutional components, I have studied a fairly broad set of avenues of work by integrating the proposals made by all the actors I have met. I am aware that this approach is new. But at the same time, if you ask me today, it is that the methods chosen by my predecessors to find a solution for fifteen years, all parties combined, have not given complete satisfaction. My intention is to present the outcome of this work to the federal government and then to all the actors involved. This concerns the regions, but also associations of residents, mayors and socio-economic actors, such as employers and trade unions. My will is to present the results of this work to the federal government and then to all the actors involved. It is too easy to shout to the wolf one day about noise nuisances, then the next day to become an unconditional defender of employment. Both aspects must coexist in the development of a comprehensive and structured proposal, in accordance with the government agreement, as I recalled a moment ago. A comprehensive proposal also implies not simply moving nuisances but managing them as a set to be distributed equitably, taking into account the legible, transparent and respected criteria. Of course, some of the proposals I will make are aimed at reducing the overall volume generated by the airport. The Brussels National Airport Manager, LAC, presents this afternoon at a press conference his strategic development plan by 2040. According to my information, LAC has presented this plan to all political actors and to others, no doubt. I had the opportunity to attend a presentation on this subject. I repeat, BAC is a private enterprise. This means that BAC makes its strategic decisions in full independence. The company must think about its future and it is therefore logical that it should propose a good strategy. It is not the role of the State to intervene in the management of the company. It is our job to frame growth, so that it goes hand in hand with a real reduction in noise pollution. The role of the State is not to intervene in the management of this enterprise. On the other hand, it is up to us to frame growth so that it can be accompanied by real improvements in noise pollution. Among LAC's main development lines are the extension of Runway 25L. This measure could expand the forms of airport operations, which would also open up opportunities for better management of nuisances. In my view, the future of the airport is of course an environmental but also an economic issue. This now represents several thousand direct and indirect jobs for the Flemish, Brussels and Walloons. In conclusion, I am convinced that the search for a structural and equitable solution will require consultation of all public actors, airport operators and representatives of local residents. That is the meaning of the approach that I have implemented and that I am currently pursuing, and which will be presented to you shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u59	Mr Minister, my question concerns the proposal from Brussels Airport today to extend a certain runway. Contrary to what is currently the case, this may mean that every year 100 000 aircraft will take off along the Kortenberg-Leuven side or along the side of Sterrebeek-Tervuren. So you will tax the entire Flemish eastern border. I am not the only one to say that; the mayors of Steenokkerzeel, Kortenberg and Zaventem also join me. I am also surprised that Mr Vandenput, who is from the Overijse-Huldenberg region, is not sensitive to this. Minister, if you are seeking a balanced distribution, you must take account of the historical use of jobs. By the way, the government agreement states that the preferential use of jobs will be laid down in a flight law. The extension of runway 25L means that you move away from preferential runway use and such a measure does not belong in the new flight law. Minister, it is not Brussels Airport that will have to approve the distribution plans, but Parliament. Now, when submitting the new flight law in Parliament, take account of the historical use of runways and also of the Flemish eastern border, which clearly says no to that proposal. Let it be clear: do not try to give in to the lure calls that make the Brussels Region suffer less than 100 000 flights. If one takes off along that runway, it is true that airplanes do avoid Brussels. Be very careful. I should like to warn you that the many elected people here from the Flemish East Rand will not accept that distribution plan. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We, as liberals, are in favour of the economic growth of Brussels Airport, but we are in favour of the residents. Mr Van Rompuy, I can reassure you. Job 25L is also my concern. I said that in my speech. You're right, this will cause the eastern edge more inconvenience. A perfect balance between the environment and a high capacity for the airport is possible, because technology allows it today. A balanced distribution of aircraft across the three regions is also important. We also believe that the Brussels Region should accept a number of aircraft landing and departing at Brussels Airport over its territory. That is why I think you should take the lead, Minister. You have to call the Regions, the municipalities involved and the action groups together.You have already started this, because as mayor I have already been to such a meeting so that they can work together on the growth plans of Brussels Airport and the drafting of a flight law, which will preferably be implemented before the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers and the information you have given us. I have retained that you are working on a comprehensive solution with the actors involved, namely residents and job providers. I repeat, for us, it is essential that the activities and development of the national airport and the decisions to be taken do not hinder the well-being of the residents of Brussels. I have every confidence in you that a structural and equitable solution will be found quickly. Of course, I can only encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, we heard yesterday that you decided not to send new asylum experts to the EASO in Greece. The EASO is the European office that helps with the registration and reception of refugees on the Greek islands. You have decided to do so because the safety of our staff is being compromised there. Safety can no longer be guaranteed. Office buildings were set on fire and an interpreter was injured. That's why you raised the alarm with your Greek colleague. You wrote him a letter and the ink was not yet dry or new incidents on the island of Chios were a fact. Groups of refugees looted a store with fireworks and our tasks which then in the refugee camp burned down another part of the office buildings. Mr Secretary of State, 15 000 refugees are trapped on these islands. Some nationalities naturally receive faster treatment because of the high degree of recognition, but many people from other nationalities are also waiting for a decision on their recognition. That is still Greece's pure responsibility. As I said, the EASO helps to register asylum applications, interviews and reception of refugees, but the treatment itself remains Greece's responsibility. The refugees have been stuck on those islands for weeks now. It is understandable that there may be some unrest, but it is not acceptable that our EASO staff should suffer and work in unsafe conditions. Mr Secretary of State, are you the only State Secretary concerned with the safety of the staff? Are there any countries pulling the alarm? Have you heard your Greek colleague in the meantime? Is Greece prepared to guarantee the safety of personnel and, above all, to offer a perspective to the thousands of refugees on these islands and to communicate clearly about their perspective of refugee recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard in the Committee on the Interior, I have sent a letter to Mr Mouzalas, with whom I have a good working relationship, to announce that we are temporarily not sending any new staff and that we have no one there either. Our country has actually given a great deal of support to the Greeks from the outset. I have always said that we would help them as much as possible from the moment there was a deal with Turkey. We did that, too. I believe that our country has even given the most comparative support in the European Union to Greek fellow Members to deal with asylum issues in the hotspots on the islands between mainland Greece and Turkey. Since March 2016, we have already delivered experts to Greece for no less than 1 700 working days. This makes us one of the most important contributors, perhaps the most important. It is not that we are not lagging behind ourselves and that we do not need these staff here. For the record, there is a delay of 11 000 files here, so I can also use the people here. However, we have decided to help the Greeks. We have sent people from Fedasil, from the Commissioner-General for the asylum files and from the Foreign Affairs Office for the intakes, to the maximum, to carry out a wide range of tasks. We have not been strict about this at all. When we needed our help, we immediately provided help. However, the security situation is precarious. I sent letters. I addressed Mr Mouzalas and my fellow Members at European Council meetings. Mr Van den Bulck has sent letters, the EASO has sent letters again and again with the request to guarantee the safety of our employees. It's very dangerous there and it's getting more and more grim. That is not illogical, because there are 80 to 90% of young single men, who have been stuck on a number of small islands for months. That creates a lot of tension. As you mentioned, a new fire was set last night, a big fire, on one of the islands. The ink from my letter was indeed not dry at the time. Are there other European countries with the same questions? Absolutely. Since the report on that letter was in the news, I have had several colleagues on the line asking what exactly I have done and whether we would discuss it tonight. An informal JHA Council starts within two hours and this item is on the agenda. It will therefore have to be discussed clearly. Within an hour I have an appointment with Mr Mouzalas to discuss this letter in private and to see what exactly we are asking for. In fact, I have always been clear in the questions I have asked, together with the EASO and all the other European asylum authorities. We are calling for a structural increase in police presence on the ground. That may also be a military presence for me. You know I'm less sensitive to whether they're police or military. For me, that is a little less important, as long as there are security forces present. We also call for an integrated safety plan for hotspots, which is still lacking. There's been a search, but there's no plan. We also want to examine the slopes to establish the EASO experts outside the hotspots, so that the interviews can be done outside the hotspots. We want to give all our support. As soon as there is an agreement on more security, I will immediately send employees back there. At the moment, however, that would be irresponsible. I believe that you agree with me that the safety of our staff must always be guaranteed and that this is a priority. If anything were to happen, you would be the first to question me about it, which would also be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u64	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. I understand that you want to give a signal and that you pulled the alarm to avoid worse. I know you're a big supporter and a pioneer of the hotspots. It would be very bad, should they be called into question. That is why you are now sending the signal that the hotspots and the registration of asylum seekers on the Greek islands are part of the deal that Europe has with Turkey. They are also a necessity to further reduce the European asylum crisis. They also fit into the anti-drinking plan. Europe's deal with Turkey saves lives. It is of the utmost importance that it is not called into question. That is why you are sending this message with an explicit question to Greece, which you will discuss in an informal manner within the hour. I think it is very good that you are pulling the strings, that you are taking that initiative and that you will place Greece, in an informal way, on its responsibility to make our staff work in safe conditions and, above all, to give the thousands of refugees there a future perspective. I thank you and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 November 2016 and at the request of the Government, I propose that the following draft laws be postponed to the plenary session of 23 November 2016: - the draft law introducing a general residence condition in the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, Nos 1901/1 to 11. - the draft law amending the Law of 14 March 1968 on the abolition of the laws relating to residence tax for foreign nationals, coordinated on 12 October 1953, Nos 2097/1 to 3. - the draft law amending Article 61-2 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in order to replace the order to leave the territory by a temporary residence document in the procedure for victims of trafficking in human beings, Nos 2045/1 to 3. In accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents on November 16, 2016 and at the request of the government, I propose to defer the following bills to the November 23, 2016 sitting: - the draft law inserting a general condition of stay in the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and expulsion of aliens, Nos. 1901/1 to 11. - the draft law amending the law of 14 March 1968 repealing the laws relating to the residence taxes of foreigners, coordinated on 12 October 1953, Nos. 2097/1 to 3. - the draft law amending article 61-2 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens in order to replace the order to leave the territory with a temporary residence document in connection with the procedure for trafficking in human beings, Nos. 2045/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Bellens. It shall refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2074/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2074/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Deseyn and Mr Piedboeuf. They refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2052/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2052/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u73	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Servais Verherstraeten, Leen Dierick, Patricia Ceysens, Dirk Janssens, Benoît Friart, Philippe Goffin, David Clarinval, Vincent Scourneau, Goedele Uyttersprot, Werner Janssen
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Uyttersprot. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u75	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a central solvency register is undoubtedly an important step in the process of computerising justice. It was also welcomed by all the players in the judiciary involved in the bankruptcy proceedings and who were heard in our Committee on Commercial Law. It is true that centralizing all documents and data relating to bankruptcies, through the bankruptcy trustee and not through the court registry, in a computer platform will be beneficial at several levels. First of all, this would allow for a considerable reduction in the workload of the transplants. From the hearings, it became clear that, for example, for the Walloon Brabant Commercial Court, the management of bankruptcy declarations – almost 400 each year – occupied a full-time clerk. The transplant will then be able to carry out other tasks. In addition, a deposit of claims at any time and without displacement for creditors will be made possible. In addition, this will result in considerable savings as a result of automatic case management, the lack of handling of these files and the disappearance of postal costs. A series of documents will now be communicated automatically by electronic means. Finally, of course, we can also hope for an acceleration of the judicial process as such. Bef, this registry will ensure more efficient and less costly management of bankruptcy proceedings in our country. I would like to point out here that the recommendations of the Privacy Commission have been incorporated through several amendments. Our concern for efficiency must be combined with the desire to respect the privacy of citizens. It is therefore without hesitation that the MR Group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u76	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1779/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1779/9) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Civil Code and the bankruptcy law of 8 August 1997 with a view to the introduction of the Central Solvency Register." The title was amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Judicial Code and the Bankruptcy Act of 8 August 1997 with a view to introducing the Central Register of Solvency. The bill has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u79	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u80	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 9 November 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 9 November 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 187/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 187/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u81	Yes 75 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u82	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u83	Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2074/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2074/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u84	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u85	Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2052/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2052/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u87	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1779/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1779/10) Mrs Smeyers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-17-54-plenair-ip139x.u88	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 21 November 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of November 21, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 23 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 23 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
