ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on several occasions I have had the opportunity to ask you about the recruitment of police officers. At that time, I pointed out to you that the ceiling on the 800 annual commitments seemed derisory to me in order to fill the shortage of police officers, especially since retirements and the terrorist threat that is mobilising a large number of personnel must be taken into account. You have – and I'm happy about it – changed course and finally realized that it was necessary to push the ceiling. That said, your previous measures planned to adapt the teams of trainers in police schools according to the number of aspirants revised downwards. Today, therefore, I am concerned about the supervision of these aspirants. Another concern is that of the waiting list for police aspirants, some of whom have been registered for a very long time. Minister, with the increase in the number of police officers hired, will the teams of trainers in police schools be adjusted in numbers and capacity? How will police candidates on the waiting list be managed? Are they priorities? Does the recruitment campaign achieve the expected results in terms of number of applications via jobpol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, to answer your first question, a contingent of 58 trainers from the Federal Police is available to accredited police schools. During previous mobility cycles, initiatives were taken to fill vacancies. Therefore, the number will be increased by 58 trainers. I must confess that I do not understand the content of your second question. You're asking me if priority will be given to police aspirants. Candidates are permanently placed on the reserve list because of their date of application, in accordance with Article 4.1.30 § 2 of the Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 on the legal position of police personnel. The order of appeal for basic training is organized on the basis of this classification, the language regime, the choice of candidates to be admitted to one or other of the police academies according to the quotas of aspirants police devolved to each of them, taking into account their capacity to receive them. Only those candidates who have indicated an interest in immediate or supplementary recruitment as envisaged in Ministerial Circular GPI 73 of 14 May 2013 could opt out of this rule and be admitted to training more quickly. For the time being, only the local police in Antwerp are recruiting additionally from own funds. So, we started trainings planned last month. Others will follow in September and October. If a large police area like Antwerp wants to add a fourth one, it can do so. For your third question, the recruitment communication for the core framework has resulted in the expected results. This year, we see an increase of 36 per cent for the applicant inspectors compared to 2015, for the period from 1 January to 31 May. Also note the strong participation, with 7,000 people, in the open days organized within each police academy last March. The marketing survey, submitted to each application, shows an increase in 2016 of 12% of applicants after an open day. The numerous recruitment activities – already 102 events in 2016 – also explain the attraction for the police function. These include employment fairs, information sessions, school meetings, media communications and points of contact in police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u3	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u4	Minister, the Doel 4 plant was sabotaged on August 5, 2014. Can you first tell me at what level this incident, fortunately rare and of unprecedented intentional gravity, was classified on the INES scale? We know that a judicial investigation is under way to find those responsible for this sabotage. While I find that more than twenty months after the facts, the investigation has still not brought anything concrete, I am not going to ask you about this judicial aspect. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the facts found by the operator and/or the AFCN, as it is known that a team of AFCN experts went to the site very quickly to make the necessary findings in addition to what the operator himself had found. Minister, can you give us an exhaustive account of what was observed on this occasion? Do you confirm that in addition to the loss of oil in the turbine, another sabotage was also found? What was that other fact? In which part was it located? Furthermore, after the automatic shutdown of the reactor, one of the three pumps in the auxiliary food water system was found to be unavailable due to a technical problem. This anomaly was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. Is this anomaly completely independent of the sabotage act? Finally, I would like to know what steps and contacts you have had with your colleague from Justice on the investigation itself. Do you know what means are allocated to the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u5	Mr. Nollet, the incident at Doel 4 was not classified on the INES scale because nuclear safety incidents are not classified on the INES scale. In addition, this incident occurred in a non-nuclear area and therefore had no impact on the safety of personnel, the population or the environment. AFCN acted as a technical expert in this legal case. The Agency's experts found that the steam turbine oil tank had been emptied by someone who opened the escape valve, who sent the lubricating oil very quickly to an emergency tank in the event of a fire. Based on these findings, it was found that the oil leak was caused by voluntary manual handling. As stated in 2014, it was also found that one of the three pumps in the emergency food water system was no longer available due to a technical failure. However, the reactor was safely shut down without further problems. After analysis, this anomaly was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. As the investigation is still under way, the requested information is covered by the secrecy of the investigation. For the same reason, I cannot answer your last question, which also relates to the investigation conducted by the federal prosecutor's office. Following this incident, AFCN imposed a series of complementary safety and security measures on all Belgian nuclear power plants. In concrete terms, the level of security has been raised by the placement of a large number of cameras, by changes to the badge access system, by the implementation and optimization of the four eyes principle and by the application of a series of other security measures. I really hope that once this investigation has been completed, we will have all the details, because I understand you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u6	The more time passes, the more challenging this situation becomes. Indeed, we have still not obtained any clarification in relation to this act which I at the moment describe as sabotage, even if it probably hides something else. It would be more than time to get some answers to this question. We know that communications from the federal level appear for other matters that we are currently dealing with. Would it not be time for you to speak to the Minister of Justice so that a communication can be established and we can take stock of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u7	I confirm that I have already made a request to the Minister of Justice on this subject, but I cannot force his hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u8	I just wanted your statements to be acted on because I think it is important, even if we do not yet have an answer to everything, that a channel of communication be established in this area. On the other hand, you acknowledged that another problem occurred on one of the three pumps in the water system. It was classified at level 1 on the INES scale. However, you didn't tell me if there was a connection between the two incidents? Are these two events completely independent or are they related? Is the pump problem related to the sabotage found? Would it be precisely two acts of sabotage? This specific question was included in the written document that I submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u9	For the time being, we believe that these two facts are independent of each other. If the investigation were to reveal a link between them, I would let you know, but for now we are assigning this second incident to a technical failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u10	Thank you for the accuracy of your answer. To sum up, at this stage, you do not establish a link, but it is not impossible for the investigation to reveal one later. I will not go any further, but I reiterate my request for contact with the Minister of Justice, so that a communication can be put in place. When I see what can be done to investigate the attacks (on Thalys or on 22 March), I think it should be possible to communicate a minimum, even if these issues are no longer relevant and unfortunately we have other concerns. However, this issue must not be forgotten. I know that's not your intention. I would simply like to insist that your colleague should also be aware of this. I will also work on it, so that we can get information on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u11	You know that I am very attentive to the development of this issue, and in our most recent exchanges, which are also very correct, you were informing me that the AFCN, having concerns that the company would evade its responsibilities - in your words - had forced EZB to provide it with an application for authorisation to dismantle before May 15, 2016. This period had been set in the light of AFCN's desire to receive from the operator a quality and unequivocal record as to the final and safe destination that is preferred for both cyclotrons. That date being behind us, I'd like to know what's going on. Has the company filed such an application? What does she understand? Is it "quality", since that was the criterion that the AFCN had deemed necessary? According to what calendar will the company be dismantled? Can you also reassure us about the information circulating that there would be water infiltration into these buildings, and that the site would not be fenced? Anyway, there could be pretty easy intrusions into this building. In addition, on the part of the waste generated by this company, during its March 16 inspection, AFCN required the UCL to conduct a characterization exercise of all the units stored in order to make a decision for each of them. Thus, all those which have been stored for more than 10 years and whose level of radioactivity is higher than that of release will now have to be subject to a request for evacuation from ONDRAF. The UCL had announced the results of this exercise for May 15 and would be presented to the AFCN. Can you inform me about the characterization exercise and the follow-up that will be given on the management of all stored waste? At the time, AFCN did not consider it necessary to impose these measures through an injunction, but did not waive it if the actions and deadlines imposed were not respected. What now? That, Minister, is a follow-up to my previous questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u12	Mr Nollet, the company EZB has asked AFCN for an extension of the deadline for submitting an application for authorisation to dismantle. Based on the arguments put forward by the company, mainly internal organizational issues and the need for additional time to complete the necessary analyses, and always in the interest of obtaining a quality and unequivocal file, the AFCN extended the deadline to 31 July this year. In the meantime, the PSAN of course ensures that the site is adequately secure and that the facilities are safely managed. With respect to waste from the company's activities, AFCN received a detailed inventory on May 9, 2016. Of the liquid wastes, 41 of the 103 units stored have a level of radioactivity higher than the level of release and will not be released within 10 years. They must therefore be the subject of a request for disposal from the Belgian National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material (ONDRAF). The same applies to 301 of the 563 solid waste units. The other liquid and solid waste units, which have been stored for less than 10 years, are either released or will remain stored at UCL, which will regularly measure the level of radioactivity of these units in order to determine whether they can be released or whether they should be stored again until the next measurement. Finally, in the case of injunctions, they shall be applied where the actions imposed in connection with the finding of the infringement are not complied with neither within the prescribed time limit nor in the quality of the reply provided. The application for authorisation to dismantle was the subject of a warning which was not complied with. It was therefore taken over in an injunction. On the other hand, UCL met the deadlines for the waste characterisation exercise. Thus, until further notice, there is no question of an injunction at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the accuracy of your answer. I distinguish well the part of the waste managed correctly by the UCL, until proven otherwise. I'm closing this part of our exchange. On the other hand, the company has not been producing since 2008, when we are in 2016, and the company is asking for a further extension to submit its decommissioning plan. The Federal Agency agreed when it had previously issued a warning, issued an injunction and set a deadline for May 15. We're playing cat and mouse here, and it's not good, it's not healthy. We know that this company is no longer able to produce anything. There's nothing left in the buildings, just two cyclotrons that are still there and that you need to be able to dismantle and evacuate. But we're hanging out, with the prospect that all the know-how and the staff will be gone. There are only two or three people on the site. You're saying everything's safe. I'd like to be sure. I don't think there's a fence around the buildings. I don't think the infiltration problem is under control either. We've had severe weather, even though it's a little better today. I will ask you again at the beginning of the parliamentary year, because on 31 July it will not be possible because of parliamentary leave. I ask you to pay attention to this because I feel like they are pulling as much as possible on the elastic, but this elastic has been broken since almost 2008. The danger to local residents and businesses, even if it is not immediate because it is not a nuclear power plant, is still real because of the risk of de-empowerment of a company leaving. From 2008 to 2016, it's been eight years. We may not be a month's extension, but at some point we're going to have to be firm and act for the safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u14	Question No 11871 by Mrs Gabriels 1 11911 by Mr Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u15	Mr President, Minister, this is going to be very short since on 25 May last I asked you about OECDFO. You answered me about the number of cases handled, the way they worked; you explained to me that the financing of terrorism was entrusted to the Terro cell and I asked you when I noticed that one of the major files of OECDFO was money laundering. I asked you which police department is now dealing with it, since it is probably no longer ODCFO. To which unit of the federal police have money laundering files been transferred? As money laundering cases are now granted to this division – I don't know which one, since you didn't know exactly who it was at that time – has its personnel capacity increased? at that time, exactly to whom it was entrusted. What bothers me in money laundering cases is that they are highly complex legal, tax, etc. I would have liked to know if there was any particular training for those who are now dealing with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u16	Mrs. Matz, there was no transfer of files. The transition from the OT2ter to the OT3 was not brutal, but rather continuous. Although the OT2ter provided for 43 FTES and OT3, 16, the overnumbered personnel were not excluded on the day the OT3 came into force. It was October 26, 2015. Staff mobility is a process that can take a little time. During this period, individuals who would not have obtained a seat at the OECDFO were able to complete their money laundering file. The deconcentration of OECDFO staff is still under way and some files are about to be closed. For this reason, it was decided not to transfer open files to other units of the Federal Police Judicial Districts. The old files remain processed by the people who have started processing and therefore, gradually decrease. With regard to your second and third questions, the members of the Ecofin and/or laundering sections of the PJF have always dealt with most of the money laundering cases and are therefore long-standing specialists in this area. The Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO) managed only a limited percentage of these cases. The additional workload for PJFs is therefore very limited. The capacity of all federal police directorates is provided for in the Royal Decree of 26 October 2015 on the distribution of federal police personnel. The police inform me that the capacity of Ecofin's personnel in the PJFs is increased, ranging from 632 full-time equivalents in the OT2ter to 656 in the OT3. The judicial officer will set priorities between the files to be processed, where appropriate, by applying the management of the research.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u17	Thank you, Minister. It is true that there is a mismatch with what you say about OECDFO, which already did not deal with many money laundering cases. To hear them talk about their past, despite the transitional phase that you decided, the majority of the cases they dealt with were money laundering cases. Why not let Ecofin management take care of this because its employees are specialized in this area? It is true that, like several other actors, we are in misunderstanding of a form of dismantling (or deconcentration, no matter how the phenomenon is called) of the staff of OECDFO in the boroughs. In the long run, we will come to the conclusion that the latter are no longer doing anything and that the OECDFO will be completely dismantled. We regret that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u18	Question No 11933 and Question No 11957 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven 12031 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u19	Minister, in Trois-Ponts, on the edge of the Ardennes, a gîte has repeatedly welcomed a group of some 30 radical Islamists accompanied by an imam, called a Salafist and well-known service. This kind of weekend is dedicated to rest, prayer and combat training. The mayor of Trois-Ponts was informed of this fact by the local police, but "could not act," he said. At the time of the previous visit of this radical group, the mayor had met the owner of the gîte, who had then committed himself to no longer accommodate such people. Minister, in previous passages of this group in Trois-Ponts, the State Security seemed to have information. Did she know about this group's training weekend? Has monitoring been put in place? If so, what means have been used to achieve this? Was the federal police on the scene this weekend?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u20	The mayor of the commune was not informed until the day before, of the arrival of this group of radicals on its commune. Would there have been no communication between the federal police, the State Security and the local police in Trois-Ponts? How do you explain it? Is there no way to prevent such rallies during which radical Islamists practice combat training accompanied by radical and Salafist Islamic preaching? I was very surprised at the reaction of the mayor who said that, since no offence had been committed, he could do nothing. Nevertheless, we know that preaching is radical in nature, and our Penal Code criminalizes everything that is terrorist propaganda. In the knowledge of this, can a mayor, by virtue of his powers in the maintenance of public order, not simply prohibit this kind of assembly? There is a certain impotence of the mayor. If I had been a mayor, I would have found in my legal arsenal something to prohibit this gathering, which has already received special attention from the services. I'd like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u21	Madam Chair, Ms. Matz, the security services were aware of this activity, although the last details were only obtained a little before. Federal police and local police cooperated to ensure follow-up of the event. The local police and the local administrative authority had the information available at any time. Recently, a decision plan was developed with the R Plan partners to assess possible hate preaching activities and possible actions to be taken. There is, however, a need for concrete evidence to indicate that wrongdoing is being committed in order to prohibit or arrest certain activities. As long as an activity remains to be considered as a sport, leisure or reflection activity, it is allowed. Here we fall into the debate on the fifty shades of grey between black and white. It is clear that I asked the security and police services what tools they still needed to stop camps like these. The question is this: when does this become a danger? When is it a training to fight? How can we determine when the Qur'an's explanation is transformed into a hateful preaching? This debate is difficult, in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u22	Minister, as soon as the police know that there is an imam on the ground that is called a hate speech preacher, is that not enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u23	This is enough to withdraw his visa if he comes from outside. I've done it several times. I asked the services to determine what tools they needed to really ban camps like these, because I'm upset too!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u24	Madam President, Minister, for about a year now, the airport has had e-gates, electronic gates with facial recognition at border control. The e-gates automatically verify the identity of passengers landing at Brussels Airport from outside the Schengen area. Anyone who wants to pass must have his passport scanned. A software system then makes sure that the underlying databases examine whether the person who wants to pass is ended somewhere. In April it became known that these gates were not working properly for a while. At the end of May the media read that the gates are broken again. This was also confirmed by the federal police. Now that it's summer, there's some concern. Hence a few questions, Minister. Are you aware that the e-gates are not working again? What is the state of play on the operation of these gates? What is the reason why the gates have failed several times? If the gates fail, the controls are carried out by cops. Should additional agents be used to do this, or are agents always available to cover for such defects? Do foreign airports operating with this system have the same problems or are there other technologies available there? Can you give an overview of the moments when the e-gates have not worked since their commissioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u25	Madam President, before the attack on 22 March at the national airport, there were a number of problems with the e-gates. In the first instance, it was a problem with the connection with the general police database, which caused difficulties. This problem was solved. Afterwards there appeared to be a problem with the feeder 1 of the identity cards. The device that was first installed proved to cause problems over time. A new feeder 2 was developed and installed by Vision-Box. That device met the expectations, allowing the e-gates to be re-used a few days before the attack. After the attack, the e-gates were not used for a time to give priority to the occupation of the ordinary control boxes due to the high number of absentees in the Border Control department. When it was recently decided to re-use the e-gates, it was again found that a problem arose in connection with the connection and thus the control to the general police database. The reason for this dysfunction of the e-gates is apparently to bring back an error in the format of the date of birth used by the machine during the connection to the police database, so that no check could be performed. That problem has now been solved and tests are now being re-examined. When using e-gates, one or two staff members should always be provided for, to monitor passengers using the system, to refer passengers to manual checks or to intervene in any technical problems. They are per six. There are one or two staff members on the planes, not per gate. There are one or two staff behind the gates. Moreover, the regular control boxes are still manned. If the e-gates fail, this staff can be engaged without difficulty for manual control via the ordinary border control boxes. Therefore, additional staff should not be provided. As far as foreign airports are concerned, we do not know the same problems. However, Belgium is the only country that has placed a feeder for identity cards in the e-gates. Other countries don't do that. I will give you in writing the closure of the e-gates per month and all the relevant statistics. It would be boring to read that here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So in Belgium we have a feeder. I'm far from an informer. What exactly is the function of a feeder in the identity check?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u27	That a check of identity cards is also carried out. Each country has identity cards. Belgium is the only country that has purchased e-gates from that company which also carry out the verification of identity cards. In some countries visual control is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u28	All I can ask is this. There is nothing you can do about it, but one problem arises after another. The installation of the e-gates may have been a major financial investment, but it also meant a security investment. We must give the message that we must insist and that any claims for damages should be made. Such problems are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u29	Indeed, ICT companies always promise heaven on earth until the customer is confronted with reality. I've had some experience with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 12043 was converted into a written question. The same applies to questions Nos 21046 and 21048 by Mrs Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u31	On 28 April, I was already asking you about the matter, but at the time you did not yet have all the detailed information on the techniques used, nor on the causes and consequences of the incident at the Paluel plant, and you told me that you had asked AFCN to look for information about this incident. I hope that since then this information has been given to you. So let me come back with my questions. On 31 March 2016, EDF informed the ASN of the fall in the handling of a steam generator in the reactor building No. 2 of the French nuclear power plant at Paluel. In the course of maintenance, the 22-metre-high steam generator, weighing 465 tons, tilted from its full height to immobilize on the ground partly on the concrete of the reactor building and partly on the protection trays of the said building's swimming pool, some of which were damaged. The handling stud also fell. Mr Minister, can you give us more information on this incident, its causes, its consequences, but also on the risk of such an incident occurring in our Belgian power stations? Do we use the same techniques to replace steam generators? On the other hand, it appears that the unions had expressed doubts as to the ability of the company in charge of the assembly of lifting structures to have the necessary qualities to work in the nuclear industry. Have you had confirmation of this element, which would once again be the basis of the problem of subcontracting in the sector, of course, at home? Finally, it is argued that the origin of the accident would be more complicated than has been said so far and that, in fact, the replacement generator could not have been removed and that it would have been necessary to cut it in half, which could be a generic difficulty for all reactors, including those located on our territory. Can you also give us information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u32	Mr. Nollet, the synthesis of the April 7 inspection report published by the NSA announced that the detailed analysis of the causes was still under way at the time of publication. In any event, the identification of the exact causes and consequences of this incident abroad does not fall within the competence of the Belgian authorities, in this case AFCN. If important conclusions that could be extended to our nuclear facilities were to be drawn, the Agency would, of course, take this into account in accordance with its jurisdiction. In any case, the initial steam generators have already been replaced between 1993 and 2009 in all our nuclear power plants without posing any problem. A second replacement is currently not planned by the end of the operation of our reactors, 2025. If the steam generators have to be released at some point, for example when the nuclear reactors are dismantled, we will not fail to take into account the lessons of the French nuclear incident, about which we will certainly know more by then. I am not competent to express myself on any problems of outsourcing abroad. So I can't answer you about that. In Belgium, subcontracting is governed by a regulatory framework set up by AFCN in the form of a royal decree dated 30 November 2011 prescribing the safety of nuclear installations. This regulatory framework ensures that active subcontractors can only provide high-quality services. As far as the safety of the vessel's steam generator is concerned, this type of component is usually delivered in one piece to the site. It can therefore, in principle, have come out of it in the same way. This is the practice of international use.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u33	Minister, thank you, but I'm still a little hungry. I note, however, that normally this type of operation must not be carried out by us on any of the power stations by the time of the closure, which you confirm in 2025, of all the nuclear power plants. However, during our previous exchange, on 28 April, you told me that you had asked AFCN to look for the information. Here it is said that this happened in France. Yes, we know that, but in the nuclear field, there are a lot of interactions and I have more important questions, more related to consequences in our own country and normally, the Federal Agency must be able to collect this information to see what consequences this can have in our home. I know - and the chairman of the board of directors has not failed to say - that parliamentary questions are annoying them. I don't think it's a good tactic to consider that behind parliamentary issues there is necessarily a willingness to prevent the Federal Agency from doing its job. Doing your job also means looking at what's going on abroad, learning enough to see if it can have any consequences for us. I hope that, behind this reply which the Agency has sent to you, there is no deliberate intention to deny parliamentary work, a little as was mentioned between the lines by the Chairman of the Management Board during his visit. I know that's not your style. I also know that on this kind of issue, you are dependent on what the Agency provides you with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u34	Madam President, Minister, on May 11, I was already asking you about this. At the time, you did not yet have detailed information. You told me that a consultation was soon planned between the Agence fédérale de contrôle nucléaire (AFCN) and the Autorité de Sécurité nucléaire française (ASN) in order to make the matter clear. This is again a cross-border matter. I hope that since then the necessary elements have come to you. So let me come back to you with my questions. The French Nuclear Safety Authority announced on its website that it had been informed on 21 January 2016 of a falsification of control reports in the nuclear sector by the mechanical company SBS, a subsidiary of the Genoyer Group. This company produces parts to be integrated into industrial equipment by manufacturers, some of which supply the nuclear industry. The company supplied products with wrongfaces, accompanied by falsified certificates concealing, for example, the non-compliance with the expected specifications of the material tested. Minister, what kind of problems do these falsifications lead to? What is the extent of malfeasance? When did they start? Are any of the documents supplied by this company likely to have been used in the Belgian nuclear sector? What controls, investigations or inspections has the AFCN initiated to be clear about it? What are the conclusions and lessons learned from these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u35	Mr Nollet, the Autorité de sécurité nucléaire, the French homologue of AFCN, announced on 18 April 2016 on its website that it was collaborating in an ongoing judicial investigation into a case of falsification of material analysis reports. The PSAN and the NSA have regular consultation and collaboration meetings on all nuclear safety issues. At the last consultation meeting in mid-May, this issue was discussed. The NSA explained the context and the issue to the NWCA. The company in question is a small supplier of forged metal parts. These parts are delivered to larger companies that assemble them in important components such as steam generators, valves or pumps. As a result of this information, AFCN requested by mail to Electrabel to identify whether Electrabel produced parts used by one of the contractors or subcontractors of the Doel or Tihange nuclear power plants for one of the Belgian nuclear reactors. In the same letter, AFCN requires, if this company is part of the subcontractors of our nuclear power plants, to make every effort to identify whether documents whose certificates are false have been and are still being used in Doel or Tihange and, if so, to determine the impact of falsification on the usability of the affected component and to draw the appropriate conclusions. In response to this letter, Electrabel presented an assessment of the actions carried out and the results achieved so far. In the period from 2009 to 2015, Electrabel placed orders from 64 different component suppliers. The operator is in the process of verifying, for each of these suppliers, whether it has delivered equipment containing parts from SBS, potentially affected by the irregularities. To date, only one company has provided potentially affected equipment. This material is being analysed by the quality assurance department of Electrabel and Tractebel. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency will monitor the development of the file closely and communicate the results. The Agency is not aware of the fact that the Belgian nuclear sector has already been confronted with this type of fraud or falsification. In order to prevent this type of problem from occurring in our country's nuclear power plants, Electrabel, as the operator of a Class 1 facility, had to set up a process of qualification of parts, structures and components. The implementation of this process is also required by Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations. In practice, as soon as a new type of classified part is to be supplied to Electrabel, Electrabel conducts audits of potential suppliers in order to qualify suppliers on the one hand and each type of part likely to be supplied by Electrabel on the other. The purpose of these audits is to verify that the company has a standard quality assurance organisation and system and that the parts are manufactured in accordance with the technical specifications of the specification. In addition, Electrabel must complete the reception of each of the parts ordered upon arrival on the site. The Belgian nuclear safety authority continuously pays attention to this qualification process through the systematic controls of Bel V and the thematic inspections on subcontracting management carried out by AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u36	Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive aspect of your answer. Needless to say, the process is under way. The results are not yet known since audits are under way with the 64 suppliers. Only one company provided potentially affected equipment. I will therefore follow this point closely. In addition, you have not communicated any delay. I guess there's no point in re-examining you before the holidays. It will therefore be for the parliamentary re-entry which will finally take place on 1 September! I'll ask you again at that time. Nevertheless, in my reply, I would like to point out that in recent months there have been obvious falsification problems, as is the case with this SBS company. I'll ask you later about the Creusot plant. All of this raises the question of our ability to monitor the equipment provided. In this case, we go back from 2009 to 2015. But these parts may well have been designed before 2009. Also on this subject, I have questions for you. What about the period before 2009? Did the company already exist and already supply parts as a subcontractor? All these topics will be offered to you at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u37	The May 26 newspaper Le Monde tells us that to coordinate their arsenal of ballistic missiles and nuclear bombers, the United States is still using computers dating back to the early 1970s, an obsolete system that works with 8-inch diskettes. These somewhat embarrassing revelations appeared in a report by the Government Accountability Office, the equivalent of our Court of Auditors, which took stock of the U.S. federal government's old-fashioned computer fleet. What about Belgium in the nuclear sector? Are nuclear power plants still using such technologies? What technologies and standards are currently used in computer systems at power stations? What about the military arsenal? Similarly, what about the control by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), the Court of Auditors or another body in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u38	In the context of previous parliamentary questions on the computer systems of Belgian nuclear power plants, I have already replied that the control and safety systems of our plants are based on similar technology. Since computer application configurations are classified and confidential information, I cannot disclose any further information on the subject. However, I would like to stress that a system must be judged on its functionality and effectiveness. In this context, the recent or non-recent nature of the technology used does not appear to be an important criterion. On the contrary, resistance tests revealed that the use of this similar technology was a protection against cyberattacks. The proper functioning of computer systems is controlled by the AFCN as they relate to the safety and security of nuclear power plants. On matters relating to the military arsenal, I must direct you back to my colleague in charge of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u39	I take note of the suggestion and will therefore put the question to your colleague on the military side. But for the rest, let me be surprised! So we still use a similar system in Belgium using 8-inch diskettes! You say this is the most effective way to fight cyber attacks, but I don't think that will reassure a lot of people!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u40	Mr Minister, on 11 May last I was already asking you about the subject, but at the time you did not yet have detailed information. You made it clear to me that there was soon to be a consultation between the AFCN and the ASN in order to make the matter clear. I hope that, since then, the necessary elements have come to you and this is all the more so since a dispatch of 31 May announces that the customers of the group abroad concerned by the findings identified have been informed. The chained Duck, in its edition of May 25, also evokes an internal and confidential note from AREVA revealing that at least two nuclear equipments have defects that can have an impact on safety. I would therefore like to come back with my questions on the impact in Belgium. Following the detection of an anomaly on the Flamanville EPR tank, AREVA committed in April 2015 to the encouragement of the ASN, a review of the quality of manufacturing at its Creusot Forge plant. This in-depth review, which only dates back to 2010, was considered insufficient by the NSA because it did not provide an overall view of Creusot Forge's organization and practices, the quality of the parts produced, and the facility's safety culture. At the end of 2015, the ASN asked AREVA to complete it. I note in passing this very strong attitude of the ASN, quite the opposite of some of the reactions of our Belgian agency. On 25 April 2016, AREVA informed the ASN of the first results of this complementary analysis. They reveal irregularities in the production control of approximately 400 parts produced since 1965. These irregularities consist of inconsistencies, modifications or omissions in manufacturing records involving manufacturing parameters or test results. According to some information, an operator performing part tests entered standard results on the manufacturing file so as not to have to justify too high values. It is the entire credibility of the industry and its control that is at stake. It seems that this would be a widespread practice beyond the Creusot plant alone. You are aware that the Tihange 1 tank was manufactured in this factory. In France, following these discoveries, Fessenheim 2 was closed for further inspection. What for Tihange 1? Can you tell me at what point AFCN has initiated steps to know the impact of the discovery of these anomalies on the Belgian reactor fleet? Above all, can you tell me what the parts are (violas of vats, steam generators, etc.) Who in our park are affected or potentially affected by these anomalies? Are we going to find dead bodies in the closets again? Can you tell us what the AFCN has put in place to verify that such falsifications have not taken place in plants other than Creusot? I am thinking in particular of those which are at the origin of the cracked tanks of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. What are the consequences of these discoveries for each of our plants? Do the Agency or operators intend to prosecute the Creusot plant company? What political lessons do you learn, at your level, from these discoveries of serious anomalies and falsifications? Is this not a question of internal control and confidence? Should we not change the control mechanisms? This is a more in-depth question, which I asked in the finale of my reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u41	I will try to be more synthetic than my colleague, avoiding repetitions. Finally, we had news from the press that AREVA was reporting to Electrabel that a non-compliant part would equip the Tihange 2 reactor. This piece, as my colleague said, was made in the Creusot factory. At this point, the daily Le Soir quoted the figure of 400 irregular pieces out of the Creusot. It is therefore possible that other Belgian power stations may be affected. AREVA claims that these irregularities do not affect the integrity of the parts, except in the case of the Alsatian reactor at Fessenheim, which was put to a preventive stop on Monday. Did my colleague say so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u42	Yes, it is Fessenheim 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u43	Minister, what information does AREVA provide to Electrabel and AFCN? What is the piece identified as irregular? What analysis has the Agency conducted to ensure that there are no risks to the population, workers and the environment? Finally, what measures are being taken to ensure that no other irregular parts equip our nuclear reactors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u44	The Creusot Forge file was discussed at the last consultation meeting between AFCN and ASN in mid-May. I have already referred to this in previous questions. On this occasion, the ASN informed AFCN that the irregularities in the production control of the parts involved approximately 400 parts produced by Creusot Forge since 1965. The French colleagues also confirmed that, according to their information, about 180 of these 400 pieces were used outside France. On the basis of this information, AFCN requested by mail to Electrabel to make every effort to determine whether certain parts concerned by these irregularities have been used or are still in service on the Electrabel nuclear plant. If so, Electrabel should assess the impact of the irregularity in the manufacturing control of these parts on their acceptability to service. In mid-June 2016, Electrabel informed AFCN that, according to its research, a component, upper flat support, of the internal parts of the Tihange 2 reactor tank has an incomplete quality assurance record. During its production, this component underwent two thermal treatments. However, the file mentions only one. This dual treatment has no impact on the behaviour of the component, but it should nevertheless be mentioned in the quality assurance file. This is therefore an irregularity in the documentation that has no impact on safety. On the basis of the provisional information, no major non-compliance with the components produced by Creusot Forge delivered to the Belgian nuclear fleet was detected. AFCN continues to monitor investigations and will ensure that all necessary checks and controls are carried out, inter alia, through thematic inspections to be carried out by subcontractors and quality control of the components and services they provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u45	Mr Minister, obviously the nuclear industry is supplied by people who sometimes take the safety and the seriousness of their work with great lightness. This is the case here at the Creusot plant, which brings out parts which it knows are not in conformity and which falsifies their certificates. This poses a real problem for our ability to control what is happening and what is being installed in our nuclear power plants. You say it was Electrabel herself who identified this piece in Tihange 2 by cross-checking the origin. This is not included in the checklist issued by the Creusot plant. Does this mean that we are still waiting for information from the French NSA and Creusot or do you consider that the information is complete and that it is the only piece likely to be affected by the defects that caused the Creusot? I had information that the problem was in Tihange 1 but you're telling me about Tihange 2, of which act. According to Greenpeace France, for Belgium, Tihange and Doel are equipped with replacement steam generators, lids, vats and pressurisers from the Creusot. I want to be sure that there are no other parts that can be a problem and that everything is covered. To be sure that the whole problem has been covered, do we still need more information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u46	I said in my reply that on the basis of the provisional information, no major non-compliance with the components produced by Creusot Forge and delivered to the Belgian nuclear fleet was detected. In addition, Electrabel's research is carried out in dialogue with Creusot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u47	Thank you for that clarification. It's a bit weird to say on the one hand that one room is not a problem, but on the other hand, Electrabel still identifies a problematic room. I also note that this is provisional information. Do you have a deadline for confirmation by a final inspection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u48	Electrabel's investigation is over. But others are under way in France and we follow them to see if other elements should not be taken into account. For Electrabel, of the 180 rooms, only one is involved in our entire nuclear park.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u49	Minister, thank you for these detailed explanations. I'll give you an appointment next week because we have practically every week to ask you about nuclear safety. This is not your fault especially, but each time the image of nuclear security is deteriorating in the country, which is very damaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u50	Mr. President, Minister, the second half of April surveys revealed that the concentration limits for air releases of tritium had been exceeded in a special batch storage facility at Belgoprocess. Can you tell us more about the source and extent of these exceedances and what has been put in place so that such exceedances do not happen again in the future? Can you tell us what kind of waste this was? Is there a history of this on the Belgoprocess site? Can you also remind us of what exists in terms of measurement? Is it a continuous measurement or a periodic survey? What is the frequency of the survey? Can you also confirm that this new incident was classified at level 1 on the INES scale and provide us with the elements that led the PSAN to classify this incident at such a level? I would also like to ask you again about the slow pace of dissemination of information in this area. How is it that these April overruns were only released by the AFCN on May 11th?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u51	Mr Nollet, the air release limits for tritium have been exceeded in a limited and temporary manner without any impact on the population. These releases were from a drum containing a steel case containing glass ampoules filled with tritium-contaminated liquid from a pharmaceutical research institute. In mid-April, the Belgoprocess security department found a high concentration of tritium in the atmosphere of a storage building. In this case, however, the legal limit has not been exceeded. In the following week, an intervention was performed to detect the source of tritium release. The drum could be identified and opened, resulting in increased tritium release over the next two weeks. Finally, during the first week of May, the contents of the defective drum were transferred to a waterproof case which was immediately sealed to stop the spread of tritium. A specific problem with tritium is that this low-intensity beta emitter is difficult to measure. For this reason, Belgoprocess will now carry out further checks in the event of the receipt of waste from tritium and all the premises where this waste is stored will be equipped with a tritium contamination detection system. In addition, the packaging of this type of waste will have to be properly checked in future to prevent the breakage of glass bulbs during transport or handling. This is the first case in Belgoprocess. In any case, the release limit is very rarely exceeded and when this happens, the exceedances are systematically notified to AFCN and Bel V. Measurements are carried out weekly on the basis of samples analysed in the laboratory. Given the limited radiotoxicity of tritium and its short biological half-life in the event of internal contamination, this event would normally be classified at level 0 on the INES scale. However, as some deficiencies have been observed in waste treatment procedures, this case has been classified as Level 1. Once the release limit was exceeded, Belgoprocess immediately notified AFCN and Bel V. AFCN received this notification on May 11 and published a communication on the same day on its website. Your criticism of AFCN's slow communication is therefore not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u52	Madam Chair, Minister, one answer is not the other. I would therefore like to thank you once again for the fullness of your answer. With regard to the content of the latter, I appreciate that a series of measures were taken after the first such incident occurred. This type of reflex deserves, in my view, to be emphasized. I will, of course, take the time to analyse these measures, but they are obviously not anodized. With regard to my criticism of the slow flow of information, I accept your comment. This is part of the game and you are entitled to say that the AFCN cannot be called into question. It is true that if she received the information on May 11 and broadcast it the same day, she could not do much better. I therefore withdraw my criticism on this point. However, the incident occurred in April. In this case, the problem is not at the AFCN level, but at the information transmission level since the incident was identified in April and the information was not transmitted to the AFCN until May 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u54	What I'm saying isn't fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u55	Yes. But the problem was noticed, for the first time in April. Investigations were then carried out and only later, after finding that there were still procedural problems as such that it was decided that the problem was level 1 on the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u56	Mr Minister, today there are 25 special assistance teams (BBTs) active in the different police areas. These intervention teams are mainly used in crisis situations. The teams were recently vetted by the P Committee. The study showed, among other things, that these units are often insufficiently trained. In order to address the problem, you provide new training for members of BAT-AELs, which is a good thing. Both new candidates and people who are already part of such BAT will have to undergo the training. Some teams already followed the renewed training. Half the candidates would not have passed the tests. According to the rules of the admission test, candidates failing one test would no longer be able to be part of such an intervention team. What tests does the new training consist of? What is different from the previous one? How will the training be organised? Will this be done at regular intervals, or at the request of the BAT zones? How long will the training take? Will the candidates be prepared for the tests so that they know what awaits them? Will additional training courses and courses be provided by the Federal Training Institute for members who are part of a special support team? Or do the zones themselves have to vouch for that? Will the tasks of the local intervention teams remain the same or will changes be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u57	Mr Demon, I have a preliminary remark. You said that some teams already followed the renewed training and that half of the candidates would not have succeeded. I can tell you that the candidates concerned were not active members of a special intervention unit. They were just police officers who were candidates to join a special assistance team. I'll answer your exact questions. The test battery contains 14 tests, each decisive, organised according to three main themes: shooting skills, physical skills and tactical skills. Shooting skills include precision shooting and shooting according to GPI 48. The physical skills are assessed in the army test, i.e. functional course, dips, pull-ups, push-ups, sit-ups, bench press scott. Keeping tactical skills know, can and want to team up in three scenarios. These are the three chapters in which 14 tests, each of which is decisive, are taken. Police officers who passed the uniform potentiality tests and were selected by their local authorities will receive a special qualification after the training. This qualification will enable them to apply special techniques and use special means, namely special protective equipment and armaments. The techniques resulting from cooperation with the Special Forces of the Federal Police will enable the Special Assistance Teams to cooperate with the Federal Units in the field of tasks requiring the presence of the two levels of intervention. They are trained in a similar way and can therefore also operate together on the ground. There was no previous uniform training. Each unit had its own training, often without official recognition. That's very well-ordered now. As for your second question, the training is carried out according to the principle of train the trainer. The potentiality tests and training courses for the trainers GPI 81 are organised centrally by the National Police College. The department of Violence Control and Sport organizes a first session for potentiality tests on 28 June for the trainers 81. That session shall not be open to members of the Special Assistance Units. Other sessions are scheduled between September and December this year. The first training session starts in September 2016 and the next sessions over the next six months. The local units are responsible for organising the potentiality tests of their staff end user and should integrate the tests into the selection tests of those candidates. Consequently, the local units shall organise the potentiality tests whenever they deem it necessary and inform the national coordinator accordingly according to circular GPI 81. The uniform, functional training Special Assistance is organized in a police school, but can also be provided, where appropriate, in the police area concerned, by these practical monitors. It falls under the auspices of a police school based on the recognition file and in consultation with the national training coordinator. The 160-hour training programme will be divided into two periods, each consisting of three weeks: two weeks of three days and one week of four days. The two periods are separated by a two-week period of return to the unit. This allows the candidate to settle the subject matter of the first period. In addition, this will ensure that the unit does not run out of operational capacity for too long. Once the training has been completed, there is a six-month integration period so that the unit and the chief of police can confirm the incorporation of the certified member into the Special Assistance Unit. There is a training sheet "Physical skills" described in an accreditation file Potentiality test. This was sent to or distributed to all units via their chief of police or representative at the meeting of 18 February 2016. Based on our observations and what is already happening in the units concerned, we propose the minimum standard of 96 hours of training per year, or 8 hours per month. The final objective to be achieved is the quality of the actions by the BAT members. In the event of a lack of quality, measures shall be taken against the staff member or unit concerned. The chiefs request an annual evaluation in the form of coaching with the possibility of additional training hours to get back to level. To ensure the quality of training, a follow-up system is proposed, divided into five categories: interzonal follow-up, supralocal follow-up, integrated intraprovincial training, integrated local-federal training and a workshop. Under BAT or special assistance team we understand a unit, a service, a team or a group composed for interventions that may involve a certain degree of risk. This group meets at least the following criteria: a specific selection, a specific continuing training on a voluntary basis, a specific equipment, both armament and protection, and specific procedures for recruitment and recall. We will only talk about the units concerned as compileable units as a general name without categorizing them. What should be seen as a general name is the way in which the units are structurally to respond to the missions entrusted to them. It is particularly necessary that they work as a composite unit at the time when they are effectively deployed to respond to a mission that involves a certain risk, for example reinforced search, arrest on public roads or emergency crew in the framework of Fort-Chabrol and hostage-taking. BAT should have at least six staff members who are available for planned missions at any time. To achieve that minimum number, common interzonal units are proposed for the smaller zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u58	Thank you, Minister. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 12149 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u60	Madam President, Minister, you have recently sent a circular to the presidents of the emergency zones in order to communicate to them your intention to reform the shift system for professional firefighters to limit them to 12 hours. This reform would be based, inter alia, on the health risks to workers in the event of shift of more than 12 hours. The SLFP union reacted to this proposal by denouncing the lack of consultation, as well as its lack of understanding of the motivation based on the health of workers, already taken into account in the area's own management. Minister, do you confirm your intention to reform the shift system for professional firefighters? What is contained in the circular sent to emergency zone presidents? Were the unions consulted before the circular was sent and, if not, will they be consulted in the future? On what basis do you base this reform? What are the health risks in case of shift longer than 12 hours? What are the studies behind these findings? How many zones do they currently use the 12-hour or 24-hour system? What would be the operational and organizational consequences for the areas currently subject to the 24-hour regime? How long is it necessary to implement this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u61	Madam President, Mrs Matz, I have adopted the circular of 24 May 2016 following the desire of some relief zones to extend the 24-hour shift work regime to emergency stations other than those to which this regime applied prior to the passage into the emergency zone. In this circular, I explain the reasons why the plan to extend the 24-hour shift system is clearly incompatible with an approach to social progress, raises a question of safety and is contrary to Belgium's international commitments. The unions were not consulted in the development of the May 24 circular as it does not include any regulatory aspects of personnel policy. Trade union organisations will be consulted as part of a possible reform. Recent scientific studies involve long-term shift due to their adverse health effects, including the risk of heart disease, depression and burn-out. I also refer to the American College of Physicians, which published an article on its website in May 2011 on the link between working hours and the risk of heart disease. In addition, long shifts reduce the effectiveness and quality of workers' interventions towards citizens, as demonstrated by a 2012 University of Pennsylvania study on the relationship between hospital nursing shift duration and safety and quality of care. I have asked my services to draw up a list of positions working in 24 hours in the areas. It will be forwarded to the services of the Chamber for transmission to you. However, I can already reassure you: if a reform is carried out, it will be accompanied by transitional provisions. I'll give you that painting right away. As far as your last question is concerned, I will discuss with the various partners and bodies concerned, including trade unions, the best timing for possible reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u62	If I understand correctly, you have sent a circular but it will have to be translated into a legal text, either an order or a law. I do not understand why you are telling us that trade unions should not be consulted on this because this does not include regulatory aspects. This still concerns the quality of life at work and the health of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u63	Because we've had the demand for different areas. We've gathered several barracks. In one body, formerly communal, the 24 hours were feasible and not in another. So I sent a circular asking not to generalize the 24 hours because there were problems. But if we are to change the rules, we need consultation. So I just gave an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u64	It was therefore a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u65	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u66	I understand better why unions are not consulted on this part. But they will be in the near future, when you decide to implement all this. This, of course, poses a number of problems, but the health factor is important, especially in occupations that require sustained attention almost permanently. We will therefore wait until we see what standard you will adopt on the subject before deciding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the Association des foyers volontes francophones et germanophones de Belgique has recently expressed its opposition to the establishment by the rescue zones of a quota of availability for volunteer firefighters. This would allow areas to require volunteer firefighters to be available a minimum of hours per month. Today, the minimum availabilities of voluntary staff members as well as the manner in which they are recalled are set out in the rules of procedure (Article 177 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014). The main objection of the volunteer firefighters is the lack of harmonisation and the application of a disparate regime depending on the area concerned. According to the figures mentioned, availability quotas could range from 75 to 154 hours per month. Minister, what regime are you considering? How will it be framed? Will the zones be subject to criteria to ensure equal treatment between the country's volunteer firefighters, regardless of the area from which they originate? How is respect for their main activities taken into account? I am thinking in particular of the principle of orange availability, according to which volunteer firefighters are recalled only for interventions of a certain gravity. Will sanctions be applied in the event of non-compliance with this quota? If so, how will they be defined? Is the sanction also subject to the free assessment of the area concerned? In the previous answer, I hear your health argument well. It is equally valid for this question, considering that volunteers also often have a main activity. Moreover, it seems to me that a breach is made in the uniformity that we wanted through reform. The great majority of Parliament was in favour of a uniform set of conditions. Otherwise, things will be disparate again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u68	Mrs Matz, with regard to your last point, you are right. But the legislator still gives some autonomy to the relief areas. It is the responsibility of each emergency zone to establish in an internal regulation the general rules which voluntary firefighters must comply with in terms of their availability. These general rules concern, for example, the procedures to be applied to declare themselves available and unavailable (e.g. via SMS, Internet, telephone, etc.).), the minimum hours of availability per month or per year, the consequences if a person has notified himself or herself as being available without presenting himself or herself in the event of a recall, the period for prior notification of foreseeable periods of availability. This is the autonomy of the areas. Equal treatment between the country's volunteer firefighters is ensured by the rules laid down in the administrative statute of the area's operational personnel. Thus, concepts such as "time of duty", "housekeeping service", "recall service" are defined in the same way for all firefighters. However, for certain aspects which are essentially part of the organisation of the zone, such as the rules applied in terms of availability, some autonomy has been left to the zones. This autonomy is regulated because the area must exercise its jurisdiction within the limits of regulation. As part of my supervision of the emergency zones, my services are required to examine the compliance of the internal regulations on availability with the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 and its implementing orders. As I pointed out to Mr Blanchart last autumn, the objective of the internal rules laid down by each area is to reconcile, on the one hand, the need to have the staff necessary to carry out the legal tasks and, on the other hand, to take account of the voluntary nature of the civic commitment of these firefighters. In this regard, I would like to point out that it is a matter of respecting a balance of interests. As much as it would be exaggerated to want to impose a constant availability for 168 hours in a row, it would be exaggerated to allow the system of availabilities to not include any obligation. The area has the possibility to impose a minimum number of hours of availability. On the other hand, the distribution of these hours of availability over the month must be the subject of consultation with the volunteer in order to allow him to combine his civic and his professional and family life harmoniously. Some areas do provide for voluntary firefighters to choose between different status of availability: available, available for non-emergency interventions, unavailable. These statutes sometimes have codes of green, orange, red colour. These hours of availability will not constitute ex officio service time. The objective is to allow the area to know in advance the periods during which volunteer firefighters are available. In the rules of procedure relating to availability, the area may provide for penalties to be applied in the event of non-compliance with the quota of availabilities. In the absence of sanctions provided for in this Regulation, non-compliance with the availability quota may be taken into account in the evaluation of the volunteer firefighter. Having greater availability than required by the area may have positive effects. Following the amendment of the financial status of the operational personnel of the rescue zones by the Royal Decree of 9 May 2016, the Zone Council may, in fact, decide to fix a minimum benefit per benefit in excess of one hour for the volunteer firefighter, whose availability rate and favourable response rate in case of recall are higher than the rates set out in the Internal Rules on Availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u69	Minister, if I hear you correctly, you have in no way changed this regulation. There was already autonomy. Why does the Association des foyers volontaires francophones et germanophones seem to say that imposing an availability quota on them almost arbitrarily is a novelty? There's something I don't understand very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u70	This is true for trade unions as well as for associations, they do not distinguish between the rules imposed at the federal level and their free application by the zones. Sometimes they oppose the federal government at the level of the rules, but the opposite can also happen. Therefore, a dialogue with these associations can solve the problems and we are in constant dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u71	In view of the substance of this case, it is indeed interesting to have some latitude in accordance with the needs of the area, given that the federal government covers the lower limit and the upper limit of this quota of availability. It is true that the confusion between rules decided by the zones and imposed by the federal government, coupled with the fact that some areas also benefit from the reform to adapt certain regulations, is sometimes not such as to calm the game with respect to certain claims. Thank you for the full answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u72	Madam President, Minister, this question is now a few weeks old, but it is still topical. On Sunday, February 28th, Stig Broeckx was hit by a motorbike during Kuurne-Brussels-Kuurne. Just a month later, on 27 March, the young and promising Belgian rider Antoine Demoitié died after a crash and crash with a motorcycle during the Ghent-Wevelgem cycling race. Many connoisseurs already claimed that there would be too many motorcyclists present in cycling races. Barely three weeks ago, on Saturday 28 May, that information became burning again. That time a collision between two bikers caused a massive fall in the Baloise Belgium Tour, better known as the Tour of Belgium, in which Stig Broeckx was taken to a hospital in Aachen in Germany with two brain bleeds and a broken eye socket. He had to be kept in an artificial coma. I understand that everything is going in the right direction with him now, but his recovery will drag on for months to come. The fact that there are too many motorbikes riding with the platoon is beyond question. No less than 48 motards made their appearance in that fateful Tour of Belgium. The 15 signalers in duozit, the 10 signalers and the 10 signalers of the federal road police account for a large proportion of that number. But that's not the end of it. There are also cameramen, press photographers, course directors, signmen and VIP guests. They all move from start to finish per engine. Apparently a permit to ride between the platoon costs only 180 euros. On the website about safety during cycling races under the logo of the Royal Belgian Wielerbond I could read the following. In order to be admitted to a cycling race as a pilot with the engine in order to perform one of the aforementioned functions, one must have a licence issued by the KBWB, the Royal Belgian Wheeler Federation. That licence shall be valid for one calendar year. A mobile signaler may be a maximum of 70 years; for the other motorcyclists the maximum age is 65 years. In other words, in order to be admitted to a cycling race as a motorcyclist, one should not take special tests or examinations to prove his driving skills. In the light of recent events, the UCI, the international cycling union, announced that the regulation would be refined. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, will you wait for the UCI, now and then a rather unwieldy instance? Or will you take some measures yourself? Secondly, will you investigate or have you already investigated the causes of all these accidents and the application of the relevant directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u73	Madam President, Mr Janssens, my answer to the first question is no and my answer to the second question is yes. We didn't wait. A meeting has already taken place on 8 June at the seat of the Belgian Wielerbond, together with my services and also with the federal police, to raise the issue. That meeting formulated some hypotheses which are now being examined in greater detail. In any case, it is quite clear to me that we must assess not only the problems of motorcyclists, but also the problems of the trailers, of the whole caravan. That's a work in progress. We have not yet come to any conclusions, but the aim is to complete this work as soon as possible. The work process therefore started on 8 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u74	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As a sports enthusiast I will of course follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u75	Especially in the Tour of Flanders!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u76	Minister, on 13 April last, I asked you about the state of the rescue systems of our nuclear reactors following the disclosure of internal documents at EDF in which the electrician considered the reliability of the backup generators of French nuclear reactors to be "degraded" between 2012 and 2014. To be more precise, all groups posed problems in 2014: 43 per cent were classified as "to be monitored", 44 per cent were classified as "degraded" and 13 per cent were classified as "unacceptable". When I say graded, it's not by the ecologists' study centre or my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre, but by EDF. This situation was cause for concern and alarm, especially since the Nuclear Safety Authority stated that it was not aware of these reliability reports. However, it is these massive engines that must, in the event of a shutdown of the electricity grid, supply vital electricity to the cooling of the radioactive fuel in a few seconds. In Fukushima, these relief generators did not start after the tsunami, causing the disaster that we know. I wanted to know what happened to us in Belgium. What is the proportion of emergency generators at our nuclear power plants that are in an "unacceptable", "degraded" or "supervised" state? Does the AFCN have knowledge of the precise reliability records of these generators? Can you share these balances with us? At the time, you told me that the AFCN did not receive and did not request reports of tests and interviews conducted on all of these components. In reply, I asked you whether, in view of the French situation, the fact that the AFCN does not currently have a detailed balance sheet should not lead, in your own or that of the Agency, to the fact that one should be requested. I argued that this could be asked, not in the light of a concern for Belgium, but of the situation in France. It's a wish I made for you. In response you said: "I agree with you. I'll see what we can do with the AFCN about it." So I would just like to come back to you two months later to see what this contact with AFCN has given me. What have they put in place or what will they put in place following your agreement on my request?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u77	Mr Nollet, the AFCN does not take stock of the situation of foreign power stations and has so far received no information from its foreign colleagues justifying any action in this regard. Normal tests to verify the availability of generators from Belgian establishments are carried out in a usual manner and verified by AFCN. If such a check revealed an unacceptable state, the AFCN and Bel V would of course take the necessary steps, but there is no signal to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u78	Minister, I find your answer too brief. Indeed, given the magnitude of what was revealed in France, the AFCN should at least have wondered – and it seems to me that this was the subject of our previous exchange. First of all, when it is said that in France, 44% of reactors had to be monitored, that 44% were in a degraded state and 12% in an unacceptable state, we must think that such problems are likely to arise in our country. However, the AFCN believes that everything is fine. Secondly, and this is perhaps even more important, these data were not in the possession of the security authority, in any case in Belgium. It was by the tape that this report came out. In any case, again the question arises of the ability of our control system to carry out controls on its own initiative and to have sufficient information to judge the condition of our reactors – in this case, their emergency system. This is not to depend on information coming from within the company. But that is still the case. The problem here is the emergency generators. I am convinced that the same is true in terms of cybersecurity. Both you and AFCN are totally dependent on the operator's good intentions to deliver information or not, but also on potential leaks. The control system is not sufficiently secure, as the French case illustrates. In Belgium, we're trying to get rid of the problem. Contrary to what we had hoped, the AFCN did not take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation was known. She trusts the operator blindly. It doesn't seem like a good war to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u79	Mr Minister, on Wednesday, 9 March, we were receiving the representatives of the Higher Health Council in the nuclear safety sub-committee to present their recommendations for the reform of the emergency plan. The least we can say from this hearing is that our current emergency and evacuation plan is no longer adequate. In their recommendations, the experts agree with the request of the Scientific Council of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN), whether in terms of the distribution of iodine pills throughout the country, the extension of the evacuation zone to 20 km or the organization of full-scale evacuation exercises. Having said that, I was most struck by the insistence they put on saying that the main lesson to be learned from Fukushima is precisely that we can no longer exclude this kind of incident at home, whether in Antwerp or Liège. When I asked you in the meantime, on 14 March in the Committee on the Interior, you informed us that a first proposal for a plan would be made public in June. We are not yet 30 June. You have eight days to make it public. This is just enough time for printing and dissemination. The options are decided. I will therefore allow myself to ask you about them and not yet about the access which, I imagine, will be possible the penultimate or the last day. So, on the options, are you going to follow the recommendations of the AFCN Higher Health Council and Scientific Council, both in terms of the distribution of iodine pills throughout the territory, the extension of the evacuation zone to 20 km or in terms of the organisation of life-size evacuation exercises? How will you concretely translate each of the recommendations? What is the consultation process you initiated between the public release of the first version and the final adoption by the government? You are aware that the nuclear safety sub-committee has dealt in depth with the subject, in particular through multiple hearings. What arrangements have you planned or are you going to plan so that parliamentarians too can give their views before the plan is adopted in its final version, since you were talking about a first proposal in June?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u80	The Crisis Centre will actually send me, at the end of June, a first version of the updated nuclear emergency plan. The first version is the result of the work of an editorial team composed of experts in the field, the Crisis Centre, AFCN and its subsidiary, Bel V. In drawing up the updated plan, and therefore also in this first version, there are many elements which have or may have an influence. The results of the emergency plan exercises and the resulting improvement projects, the experiences of actual situations such as the Fukushima accident, national opinions such as those of the Higher Health Council and the Scientific Council of the AFCN, international opinions and directives such as the results of the RK-WENRA working group, the European Commission Directive on Basic Safety Standards and the IAEA Directive on Emergency preparedness and response, and the results of the working groups which have considered this update. It is important that these various possible influence factors be interpreted and properly integrated. With regard to sanitation, for example, with regard to direct protection measures for the population such as shelter, evacuation and iodine intake, an international distinction is also made between the concept of "emergency planning zone" and what should be interpreted as a region or area in which measures should be taken over a longer distance. The opinion of the AFCN Scientific Council includes, for example, an emergency planning area for evacuation up to 10 kilometres with the possibility of extending it to 20 kilometres. The nuclear emergency plan will describe these enlargement mechanisms. As far as iodine is concerned, as my colleague from Public Health has already pointed out, the distribution of iodine tablets throughout the country is being studied. An interdepartmental working group examines the conditions under which this should take place. This concerns the distribution mechanism and priority target groups. With regard to the organization of contingency planning exercises, I repeat that in the development of exercises, both scenarios with severe consequences and scenarios of limited scope are required. However, there is a need to ensure that the engagement of personnel and resources does not endanger the normal functioning of the services concerned, particularly for relief services in the field. Finally, this first version of the emergency plan must be the subject of a wider process of formal consultations: governors, federal departments, the Regions, the European Commission, basic safety standards, the Higher Council of Health are examples of the bodies concerned. The principles of the evolution of the nuclear emergency plan as reflected in the first draft version of the plan have already been explained to all the governors' representatives and the representatives of the mayors with a site on their territory, as well as to the representatives of the federal and regional departments. Before this finally concludes at the end of this year a final updated contingency plan, the Crisis Centre is also always prepared to explain this to the members of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee in the vicinity of Parliament itself, or within the buildings of Ducale 53 Street, which is the address of the Crisis Centre. We can agree on where we'll give this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u81	The place will not be the subject of bitter and difficult negotiations, Minister... I understand that the timetable for the end of June will be respected, for a first version. Secondly, there is a space for discussion, and in this space we will introduce a moment of possible reaction for the nuclear safety sub-committee. We'll find the modalities. If I hear correctly, the final version is for the end of the year? Okay. The elements could therefore be planned with the subcommission. I just have one more reaction on the content. Regarding iodine pills, as my colleague said, you say it's studied. The principle seems to be acquired for me. The study deals with the modalities of distribution everywhere, but the principle is acquired; I want to be sure that you do not question the principle of distribution throughout the territory. As far as the modalities are concerned, is it both at home and in schools, businesses, etc. I want to be sure that there is no question of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u82	I confirm that the principle is not called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u83	Mr Minister, in France, EDF has just asked for a thorough review of the timetable for dismantling nuclear power plants (and in particular the reactor casings) by asking for 50 to 60 years longer than expected. Recall that the current law provides for deconstruction in France "within as short a time as possible". Without waiting for the decision, EDF has already taken the consequence in its annual accounts published in February. The provisions were increased by around EUR 300 million. What about Belgium? What is the timetable? What is the framework within which the operations take place? The arguments put forward by EDF which considered that "the technologies envisaged presented far too great risks and that it was therefore necessary to abandon the dismantling under water. This avoids problems of sealing and corrosion, etc." Are they also valid in Belgium? We know that the generation of the plants concerned is not the same. Are we going to Belgium to ask for an extension from 50 to 60 years, assuming that this company still exists? Will we dismantle "underwater"? What do you think of the arguments now highlighted by EDF? I hope you can reassure us on these aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u84	Mr Nollet, I refer you to the full report of the committee on Tuesday 14 June, at which the Minister for Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development has already answered the question on the timetable for the dismantling of nuclear power plants. This is question No 12218. The mentioned reactors are natural uranium graphite gas type, while the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants are equipped with pressurized water reactors. It is a very different technology with other materials and other constraints for dismantling. But I am referring to Mrs Marghem's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u85	Minister, I am well aware of this answer, since I asked Minister Marghem the question. But since the content fell within both jurisdictions, I had hesitated. Since I had already had this kind of situation, the secretariat had told me to send my question to the two ministers. I've allowed myself to do it. However, Minister Marghem was unable to remind us of the framework and tell us exactly what was happening on time, since it was only recommendations. Since you have invited me to reread the answer that I also knew, I invite you to reread the exchange that we had to identify with me the weaknesses of the current legal situation, which does not provide for as short a time as possible, in any case in the law. We will come back to this later, probably through changes in Belgian law to avoid an extension of the order of 50 to 60 years. Mr Minister, should this type of question on dismantling be addressed to you or rather to your colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u86	That is my colleague's responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u87	So I know who to talk to. You consider that this is not about the security component.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u88	Minister, I will ask my question of memory. Indeed, I had so many questions that I no longer have this one in front of my eyes. I asked you a few weeks ago about the competence of airport security. You told me that you were not competent for airport security, but the Minister of Mobility. It was the 11th of May. In the meantime, your former colleague Mrs Galant has spread in the press - how to say it? - on the grounds of his resignation. This was in response to a recommendation problem in relation to airport security or safety. This recommendation would not have been passed on, although she said that her firm was aware of it, but she did not, which seems unlikely. She says, in her interview, that she was, in fact, not responsible for airport security. The journalist asks him if it means that others are, and you are quoted, as well as Mr. Geens. She says, "Let everyone take responsibility." I can tell you that this answer is a little intriguing to me. You responded by referring at the time to a European directive which mentions to whom information on airport safety is transmitted. I'd like you to clarify my lantern with regard to safety and security. We know these are two different concepts. I wish you'd told me who depends on what and who takes care of what. Even if the load was felt, it was nevertheless well present in the article. I ask you the question: has Mrs Galant made a sacrifice for the whole government, even though she was not in fact competent in this matter? That's what she looks like.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u89	Mrs Matz, thank you for this question because we need clarification. "Security" in English is "safety" and "security" is "security". When it comes to aviation, safety is defined as all the human and material measures and means intended to ensure the safe flow of civil air traffic, excluding measures and means of protecting civil aviation against unlawful acts. Security is the combination of measures, as well as human and material means to protect civil aviation from unlawful acts. That is where the difference lies. Aviation safety and security are governed mainly by the Act of 27 June 1937 amending the Act of 16 November 1919 on the regulation of air navigation and its implementing orders. The Minister of Mobility and Transport is a special administrative police authority. The supervisory authority is Belgocontrol whose mission is, inter alia, to ensure the safety of air navigation, the control of aircraft movements and their guidance at the national Brussels airport, the safety of air traffic at airports and aerodromes, and to provide the police and air and airport inspection services with information on aircraft, their pilotage and their observable effects. Aviation inspection is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Air Transport of the Mobility and Transport FPS, which is the body responsible for ensuring the safe, orderly and sustainable development of civil aviation in Belgium. As regards the Brussels-National airport, airport inspection and security and safety missions fall within the competence of the Brussels Airport Company, with the exception of the general police missions of the police services. The latter, which cover administrative and judicial police, as well as any tasks requiring the use of coercion, fall within the competence of the Federal Police, without prejudice to the police powers conferred by law on certain competent public officials to be informed when an offence falling within their jurisdiction is found. The Federal Police Directorate of the Aviation Police brings together the federal police units operating at the six Schengen airports in our country and is primarily responsible for the following tasks: - border control, - police functions which include the reception of passengers and visitors to the airport, the reception and handling of complaints and depositions, the settlement of traffic, the detection of offences, the execution of patrols and protection missions; - specialized police functions, which include specialized support to other units of the Federal Police and local police in the analysis of documents of all kinds as to their authenticity and legal use, as well as the first urgent findings in criminal offences, the execution of and participation in judicial control actions with regard to drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Rather, the Federal Judicial Police is focused on judicial investigations. The exercise of aeronautical police missions which have an impact on the management or operation of airports shall be the subject of concerted action. The conclusions of this consultation are reflected in a memorandum of understanding. The memorandum of understanding concluded between the aviation inspection, the airport inspection and the Federal Aviation Police, concerning the Brussels-National airport, gives concrete distribution of the various tasks in this field. Finally, I am responsible for the interdepartmental coordination of emergency planning and crisis management, as well as for law and order. I also lay down the general rules in these matters. However, the mobility-specific aspects of mobility are the responsibility of the mobility actors. But I realize that a simplification of all this would be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u90	Minister, in the diagram you have just described, you confirm to me that the well-known recommendations inherent in airport security were the responsibility of the Minister of Mobility and not the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u91	There's Airside and Landside. The control of the police at the border is part of the Landside and therefore falls within my jurisdiction. The Mobility FPS is in charge of the Airside.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u92	You say it yourself, the dividing line between the two is a little blurry. It is rather surprising that there was no consultation at the level of the examination of the recommendations that Europe had provided on the airport on Airside and Landside. These recommendations concerned the airport in general, without distinction, and it may be in that sense that Ms. Galant wished to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u93	Following the 22 March attacks and the strengthening of security measures in the public area, the press echoed numerous complaints from citizens who had to be searched by private military or guard patrols. There have also been numerous returns to this area. With regard to the military, the office of your Defence colleague, Mr Vandeput, confirmed that they could only carry out searches in the presence of police officers and with their permission. In addition, the person searched must give his consent. As far as private guarding firms are concerned, it is our responsibility that excavations have taken place at the entrance to concert halls such as Forest National. Some citizens complained to the mayor of Forest, who confirmed, in a letter, that he had authorized a systematic search of the public space by a private guard company, given the level 3 and the anticipated number of concerts. Unfortunately, few citizens know their rights in this area and that leads me to ask you the following questions. First, do you confirm that the military cannot conduct searches, bags or persons, without the police presence and without the consent of the person concerned? Have there been complaints from citizens about illegal searches since the military was present in our streets? Have the military been informed of what they can do, what conditions must be respected and what limits must not be crossed? If not, do you plan to do so? What about private guarding agents? Are they allowed to search our fellow citizens? Finally, can a mayor authorize such searches by a private guarding company and in what cases? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u94	As far as your first question is concerned, in terms of law, the military does not have the right to carry out a legally binding search of persons and check of baggage. Searches carried out by the military must therefore be based on the consent of the persons under control. Police presence is necessary as long as the control measure must be applied in a binding manner, i.e. in the event of the refusal of the person searched. Two measures are possible when this is the case. Either access to the place is denied to the person concerned. The military is entitled to do so without the presence of the police. Either, the circumstances require that the search and check of the baggage be carried out in a binding manner. For example, where there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person has committed an offence or is preparing to do so, it is possible to verify the person's identity and, if necessary, to conduct a security search. In this case, police officers intervene. Answer to the second question: Police services are not aware of complaints regarding illegal searches. Answer to the third question: As with any involvement of the armed forces in support of the police services, a note on the rules of engagement of the military in the context of the security of public places following the attacks was sent by the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police to the military authorities. These rules of engagement explicitly repeat the prohibition on military personnel to search persons and their baggage in a binding manner, i.e. without the consent of the persons concerned. I come to your fourth question. The Private and Special Security Act allows persons to be searched and baggage checked in two cases: in the context of access controls and in the context of exit controls at certain places. In two cases, the law does not allow guardians to use coercion. The person's search and check of his or her baggage may be carried out only with the consent of the person. Such searches and checks may also be carried out only in the circumstances in accordance with the particular procedures and purposes laid down in the above-mentioned law: detection of weapons and dangerous objects, prevention and detection of theft. Finally, I would point out that the Law on Private and Special Security explicitly states that guarding agents may not, in particular when controlling a person, use coercion or force with the exception of what is necessary in the context of self-defence or citizen arrest. For the implementation of searches of persons and baggage checks at the entrance to a place accessible to the public, the law on private and special security requires the prior approval of the mayor. As part of its task of maintaining law and order in the territory of its commune, the mayor may also require the owner or manager of a place where one dances to set up a guard service which could, subject to the above conditions, carry out checks at the entrance, including the search of persons and the check of luggage. The fact that the mayor authorizes or imposes controls on the entry of certain places by a private security service does not affect the right of persons to consent to them or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u95	Minister, thank you for that answer. Many messages were received from citizens who wondered about the rules and what was in force. Specific information campaigns should be launched through the municipalities or police areas. In any case, there is a lack of clarity about private guarding companies and the military. Perhaps more press articles were able to clarify the role of the military? On the other hand, as far as private agents are concerned, this seems much less clear to me. Finally, I come to what was watermarked in the question that I forwarded to you. In the reply mail of the mayor of Forest which I was able to consult on Forest National, he makes a link to level 3 of the threat. However, in your answer, I do not see any connection with the level of the threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u96	Yes, because the protocol I mentioned states that the presence of military personnel on the streets is justified only in phase 3 or 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u97	Yeah, but there's no connection to private agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u98	No, this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u99	That's what I thought, too. In any case, we will remain attentive to this important issue and we will certainly come back to the issue in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u100	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Catherine Fonck's 12299 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 12313 and 12602 by Mr Benoît Hellings and Mr Brecht Vermeulen are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u101	Minister, at his hearing in the House on April 6, the Director of the Cybersecurity Centre stated: "The Centre has read the report on the nuclear security index. With a score of 0 out of 4, Belgium has achieved poor cybersecurity results. It is therefore absolutely necessary to act. The AFCN is aware of this and will take the necessary specific cybersecurity protection measures that do not yet exist." Could you tell me what these measures are now being taken by the AFCN and which did not exist at the time of this hearing? I therefore do not wish to obtain a complete list of what has already been implemented. Can you present them to us and tell us for each of them how they are likely to reassure us sufficiently about the ability of the Belgian nuclear power plant's computer systems to cope with the various risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u102	Mr Nollet, the AFCN and the Cybersecurity Center work together constructively and organize regular meetings to discuss initiatives that could optimize cybersecurity in Belgium. One of the reasons why the NTI achieved a bad score in the NTI (Nuclear Threat Initiative) cybersecurity report is that the notions of cybersecurity and cyberattack are not literally mentioned in the current regulations. The cybersecurity approach is part of the security of information, which is regulated by the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011 on the physical protection of nuclear facilities, materials and transport, and on classified information. The AFCN is looking at how we could amend the regulations to include cybersecurity and cyberattack. Cybersecurity is an ongoing process and consists of continuous and necessary monitoring, taking into account rapid and constant developments in this area. As a result, AFCN and Bel V specifically monitor the protection of information at each of our nuclear facilities through regular verifications. Similarly, each change is assessed in terms of information protection and cybersecurity. The AFCN also closely monitors developments within the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regarding international cybersecurity recommendations in order to allow for a return to cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u103	Minister, I am disappointed by the elements of your answer, which appear to me to be very minimalist. I would like to take advantage of the presence of my colleague Hellings in committee, because this is a dossier which he has followed. Earlier, the minister confirmed to us that in Belgium too, in the field of nuclear energy, we are working with parts and elements similar to the eight-inch diskettes! Here, we're talking about cybersecurity. We will respond to our very bad score by introducing references to cybersecurity into legislation. I think that this answer is far too weak compared to the shortcomings that have been pointed out by international studies and evaluations. I doubt that this is enough to raise this score of zero out of four to a modern country in cybersecurity. I think, Minister, that you are too confident about this and that the AFCN is not sufficiently armed in this area. I will inquire about this in the coming weeks or months. I will come back to you later because I believe that you are minimizing this aspect of the risks that also concern the nuclear sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u104	I'm the minister's sparring partner, but that's the last question!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u105	He'll stop by 9:00, don't worry! You can see the game!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u106	Yeah, but he wants to see the 6:00 game! He doesn't care about Belgium. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u107	I want to see Sweden.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u108	Oh, the Swedes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u109	And the Swedes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u110	Your affinities are well recognized here! However, you will not escape my question, Minister! The Tihange 2 reactor shut down again on Friday, June 10, following a clear breakdown of an electric motor. As usual, the operator has shown itself to be reassuring and almost derogatory to whom legitimate questions arise, going so far as to consider such failures to be entirely logical and claiming that automatic shutdown proves that everything is working. When you think about it with a little hindsight, it's huge! "Everything works well, because the power plant has stopped." Of course, when the plant is stationary, any immediate danger is ruled out. All that would be missing. But do you find it normal for this plant to be shut down again after having been checked and updated – at least it is assumed – for long months following the discovery of thousands of cracks in its tank? Can you tell us more about the incident, about its avoidable or even predictable side? Can you explain to us what will be put in place to prevent such incidents from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u111	Mr Nollet, the automatic shutdown of Unit 2 of the Tihange nuclear power plant is due to the concomitance of the unavailability of the turbine and the condenser of the secondary circuit of the unit in the non-nuclear part of the installations. Due to over-intensity, the engine intensity transformer of the turbine lubricating pump burned. This failure directly resulted in the loss of the lubricating pump. The spare lubricating pump started correctly but was not able to recover the oil flow to maintain the turbine in operation. The Commission has therefore become unavailability, and therefore at a standstill. At this time, the turbine triggers the vapour deviation from the steam generators, which turns the turbine in normal operation to the secondary circuit condenser via the turbine bypass and triggers the start of pumps at the condenser level to maintain the flow of the fluid in the secondary circuit. The pump in question started too slowly or late, generating a short signal of unavailability of the condenser. For a second, the condenser and turbine unavailability signals were concomitant, leading to automatic shutdown of the reactor. The latter is therefore due to the initial failure of an engine-intensity transformer of a lubricating pump. In the current state of investigations, it is difficult to tell whether this incident was foreseeable and/or preventable. The incident occurred as a result of a failure of an unclassified element that does not play a role in the safety of the nuclear reactor. As long as the security of the facility is guaranteed, as was the case at this event, the AFCN does not have the authority to implement measures to prevent this type of incident that affects the generation of electricity and not the security of the facility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u112	Minister, as happens very often, everything is fine! There is no problem because the problem is not in the nuclear part. The sector has the ability to use certain words. This reminds me of a worker who, one day, dares to tell his boss that he is absent not because of illness, but because he has unplanned unavailability while reassuring him by telling him that he has no problem of heart. The proliferation of incidents in nuclear power plants is inter alia linked to the obsolete nature of the equipment, which must be recognized. Taking out of denial will make it possible to move forward. The security and safety aspects must, of course, be kept in mind, even if, in this case, I recognise that the nuclear part is not involved. But justifying these incidents by invoking the fact that they are far from being rare legitimizes, in itself, the fact that breakdowns are nothing exceptional and that this is part of the process. In conclusion, I have serious doubts and reservations about this way of justifying the proliferation of incidents in aging nuclear power plants on Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u113	Mr Nollet, let me say that we are facing two problems. First of all, there is the issue of safety and security. This is why the systems have been installed, and they are working. So there's no problem. Secondly, there is the problem of energy availability. These are two different aspects. In this case, there is a question of safety and security. We can track all the incidents that occur. Still, the protection systems are working. In addition, the question arises as to whether nuclear power plants supply energy in accordance with the requests of the State. On this point, the statistics show that the amount of energy supplied by nuclear power plants is sufficient – this matter falls within the competence of Mrs Marghem. In other words, we are not facing an energy supply problem. On both criteria, safety systems work. Did we want to avoid incidents? Certainly. Security systems work and energy delivery is sufficient. I don't see the problems you see every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u114	Since you are inviting me to have the last word, it is clear that, in this case, there is no safety problem and that the protection system has worked. Luckily! I have had the opportunity to ask a number of questions today, particularly about the emergency generators, where we are turning a blind eye to the situation. In France, the internal report to EDF showed how catastrophic the situation was in this regard. This concerns the safety aspect. I recall that in Fukushima, they didn't start when we were waiting for him, during the breakup. They didn't work. With regard to this aspect as well as sabotage at Doel 4, for the time being, we remain with more questions than answers. I will not list all the questions I have asked. If, here, we are not in the safety and security aspect, this, however, generates a constant question in my own country as to whether these aging plants pose no more problems than they bring answers when alternatives exist. Madam President, thank you for spending part of the afternoon with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u115	I hope the Minister does not apply that last argument to his car.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u116	Madam Chair, Minister, the issue of returns is a matter that I think is of great concern to both of us. There has been some information, notably from King's College London, which has studied about a hundred jihadists, who have indicated that there is a greater influx of jihadists back to Europe or who are trying to join Europe - they obviously do not systematically - for a variety of reasons, including abuses, corruption of their leaders, the fact that they are disappointed, the fear of air raids, abuses against certain Sunni Muslims or simply boredom. The national intelligence coordinator in France, Didier Le Bret, also reported that some of these candidates for return who are seeking to flee the Islamic State, due in particular to the progress of the coalition and the fact that some cities are now being taken over by the Islamic State, have reportedly contacted some French intelligence services. I do not know why, but it is understandable that they may seek to negotiate a return and see what the conditions would be for them to be granted by the French justice system or the French state upon their return to France. I would just like to know the state of affairs here in Belgium. I saw that in the meantime, some figures had come out no later than this morning, on the fighters returning to Belgium. So I wish I had your last numbers. I myself have received, following the inquiry that I made in plenary session, and I think you have been a copy of this letter, from the Director of State Security, who wanted to clarify matters concerning returns following our differences of views and who has made some extremely interesting points of view. I would have wanted to know what was the status of the follow-up given to each of these returns, and also whether there were, in your opinion, some of those returns, I think, which are on a mission for the Islamic State itself. What is the state of affairs in Belgium? Is there a particular influx? Do our intelligence services report certain elements? What are the figures and what is the treatment of all this and what is your government's vigilance in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u117	Mr Dallemagne, I would first like to make a small comment. Almost at every international meeting with the security services, the defence services or the police, it is a question of the fact that, because the IS is under pressure in Syria and Iraq, we are going to have a flow of turns. Knowing that 3,000 people, I think, have gone from Europe to Syria, it is clear that we are concerned about this. We have been warned for months, but for the time being we have not seen it in our territory, on the basis of the information available to the OCAM. As you know, the information available to OCAM comes from the State Security, the Defence Information Service, the Federal Police and their international counterparts as well. At the moment, there is no return signal from the 200 Belgian returns. There are 114 returns for the entire period until June 7. This figure has already been reported several times and has remained fairly stable for weeks. Upon return, each combatant is subject to a judicial record and follow-up by the justice and security services. I can't provide details on the follow-up. It's a little dangerous. I think it's information that would be of great interest to terrorists. As to whether they have a mission or not, this is indeed the great concern of the services concerned. It is increasingly difficult to leave the ranks of the Islamic State. It is very likely that the fighters returning from the front are actually sent by the Islamic State in order to carry out attacks against the world. People who escape because they are disgusted or for many other reasons represent a limited number of the 114 returns. The vast majority are people who come back with a mission. I would also like to add that of those 114, 7 have already died because they were involved in the actions in Verviers, Paris and Brussels. Finally, with regard to your last question, whether intelligence services are directly solicited, we have no indication of this. Intelligence services are better placed to respond. We must therefore question my colleague from Justice, Mr Geens, who is the minister responsible for the intelligence services. At OCAM, there is no indication of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u118	Minister, to be sure of the accuracy of the figures, I see press reports that date back this morning and that refer to 122 returns. This information seems to come from your own services. This would be 122 returns rather than 114 because we were already 117 in January. People continue to return. I continue to be concerned that some of them are at large today in our territory. Some of these releases were also commented on in the press. As you rightly point out, I believe that the vast majority of them have a mission and therefore constitute an obvious threat to our people. I therefore ask you to act quickly to ensure that security screening is systematic for these people, regardless of whether or not they have committed an offence within the meaning of the law, as it exists today. You know that our group has tabled a bill criminalizing the mere fact of having gone to the territory of the Islamic State and other terrorist territories. It is important that this proposal or other similar proposals be quickly debated, given, once again, the dangerousness that you yourself stress of these turns. I will ask your colleague about the follow-up to the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u119	Can I ask you where that number of 122 comes from?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u120	I see here an RTBF file from this morning that speaks of figures "which have just been put in the possession of the Minister of the Interior". [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u121	This figure of 114 is not possible because in January, I know, it was 117. We are fatally beyond 117 today, since returns are systematically cumulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u122	I'm going to ask for the exact figure right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u123	Yes, because that figure is not possible, minister. Another last element, among the information that has been communicated to you by the State Security. We can see that you are right on this point when we exchange views in plenary session: there are fewer people who succeed in joining the Islamic State. On the other hand, there is always as much if not more attractiveness of the Islamic State since the number of candidates who have sought to leave the ground, according to the latest information that is in my possession, and in your possession, is 71. 71 people have attempted to join the combat zones recently, which is an unprecedented figure. So, we see that despite the attacks of 22 March, despite the shock that this has constituted in the population, the attractiveness for departure continues to be high, which is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u124	Question No 12354 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Mr. Raf Terwingen was to ask question No. 12425, but we have no news of him. Mr Calomne sits on another committee and will join us later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u125	Minister, the Brussels Parliament is in the process of adopting an order organizing the electronic vote for the next communal vote. This order concerns you because the Internal SPF works with the Regions to provide for the same voting systems, both for the 2018 communal elections, which the federated entities organise, and for the 2019 regional, legislative and European elections, which are the responsibility of your services. In sections 11, 12 and 13 of this proposed Order, it is stated that the rental of computer equipment used in voting operations is envisaged. This option therefore concerns the Internal FPS and represents an important paradigm shift, concerning a fundamental right to vote. Can you tell me whether the future rental of the equipment in question will be based on the current contract between the Inland FPS and the Smartmatic company? If not, will a new tender be launched and when? How will the coexistence of the old Smartmatic machines purchased in 2012 and 2014 and the new equipment leased from Smartmatic or another company in 2018 and 2019 be organised in Flanders and Brussels? In previous questions I asked you in the Chamber on this subject, you confirmed that the average cost of the paper vote was EUR 2.1 per elector, while voting via the Smartmatic system cost EUR 4.4 on average. These estimates were based on the purchase of voting machines. Could you explain to me the results of the Inland FPS estimates of the average cost of electronic voting per elector in the event of leasing? Smartmatic, approached to assume electronic voting via rental, operates in many other countries. If computer equipment is rented from Smartmatic or another company, will Belgium use machines that have been used or can be used in other elections? Is not seeing these machines and their software moving from hand to hand a cause for concern as to the safety and reliability of future voting operations in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u126	Mr Minister, the Brussels-Capital Region has finally made a choice, which must be voted on in the near future. Given the problems of counting in 2014, in view of the findings and recommendations of experts since then, it was indeed time to take a decision. In this regard, I believe that the letter you sent to the communes recalling the recommendations of the expert report on the control of the voting system of 19 June 2014, stating that the old system could no longer be used, has borne fruit. The choice of Brussels, which I consider logical, to implement the new electronic voting system for the entire Brussels Region, like what the Flemish Region has been doing for some time, unfortunately, for the 2018 elections, is still a question. Indeed, Brussels and Flanders will use the new generation of electronic voting and Wallonia will use paper voting. Consistency at the federal level is therefore not guaranteed, a situation that you wanted to avoid, like many of us. A year ago, on June 10, 2015, you made it clear to me that you did not receive a request from the federated entities for the organisation of voting systems for the next elections and that your intention was to harmonize the voting system for all forthcoming elections for the country as a whole. This was in line with this essential recommendation of the College of Experts in favour of "replacement by a uniform system for all elections in Belgium, whatever the organizing power, offering better means of control". With the Walloon choice, this recommendation does not appear to be respected. Therefore, while the organizing power will be the same for the 2019 elections, it will be necessary to co-exist with paper results in Wallonia and electronic data in the other two Regions. Minister, since June 2015, have there been any consultations within the interdepartmental working group and federated entities set up on this subject? What initiatives have been taken by the federal level in this context? In view of the decision taken by the Brussels Region, do you consider it necessary to start a new consultation, alongside Flanders and Brussels, so that Wallonia may reconsider its position and to comply with the recommendations of the panel of experts I was quoting at the moment? Finally, based on the principle that "prevention is always better than cure", have you asked the College of Experts, following the Brussels decision, for a forward-looking opinion and analysis, with a view to ensuring the optimal coexistence of paper and electronic systems in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u127	Madam President, with regard to the first questions raised by Messrs. Pivin and Hellings, as I had informed the communes of the kingdom, the aim is for voters to be able to vote in the same municipality and in the same way, whatever the elections and whatever the organizing power concerned. In accordance with the applicable rules, however, federated entities decide independently on the voting method used for elections within their competence. I have noted that the Flemish Region, as well as the German-speaking Community, will vote using the new Smartmatic electronic voting system. The Walloon Region, for its part, has decided to vote "paper" and the government of the Brussels-Capital Region has not yet officially informed me of its decision on the choice of electronic voting system with paper proof, nor, moreover, of the possibility of renting this system. With this in mind and in the interests of consistency, economy and uniformity, the federal government will necessarily adopt the same paper and/or electronic voting system for elections within its jurisdiction, as the one or those independently chosen by each federated, regional or community entity. The public procurement for the new electronic voting system awarded to Smartmatic has indeed set up a market centre allowing the purchase but also the leasing of new electronic voting systems with paper proof, while defining the conditions. If necessary, however, these requests should be examined in consultation with the Brussels Region, as well as with the German-speaking Community when we have received more information on this subject. As regards your second question, Mr Hellings, the material currently present in the Flemish Region and the Brussels-Capital Region dates from 2012. The new systems that will be ordered under the same procurement will have to meet the same technical specifications as those of 2012. Your third question. In view of the official information we have at this stage, it is not possible to estimate, and therefore to communicate to you, the precise cost per elector for the use of these new systems via a rental. A consultation with the Brussels Region, as well as with the German-speaking Community, will be organised shortly, taking into account the choice of the Region. Your fourth question. One important specific feature of our hardware is that it does not have any hard drive, so it cannot store software from a possible different election. In reply to Mr Pivin (questions 2 and 3), I should like to point out that with regard to the recommendation made by the College of Experts, it should be recalled that the task of the College is to exercise control over the electronic voting system(s). It is in this context that the above-mentioned recommendation is read in the electoral context of 2014 where two distinct electronic voting systems coexisted: Jites and Smartmatic. The recommendation in question from the panel of experts in its 2014 report (in point 6.2.) "On the subject of the Jites system, the College recommends abandoning the system and replacing it with a uniform system for all elections in Belgium, regardless of the organizing power, offering better means of control by the citizens and drawing on the recommendations of the Be Voting analysis". In addition to the paper voting system, the College recommends the use of a single electronic voting system rather than multiple systems at the same time. This has been the case since the abandonment of Jites. The coexistence of paper voting and electronic voting is not in itself a real problem. I would also point out that in the Flemish Region, in 2012 and 2014 the paper vote and the new electronic voting system coexisted without any problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u128	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say that two systems cannot coexist. In the event that the Regions choose, with your services, a rental system, I imagine that the systems will be different. Obviously, the decision has not yet been taken. I'll put the question to you. The risk is to have two different systems. Today, in the Brussels Region, two municipalities have already been equipped with the Smartmatic system since 2012. If the other 17 municipalities are to have a leased system, I assume that it will not be the same system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u129	Why not? Each computer system can be purchased or rented!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u130	All right! So they will be the same systems! In view of Mr Pivin's remarks, the report of the College of Experts is very clear as regards Jites, but it is also clear in relation to Smartmatic. In the case of recounts, on the assumption that electronic and paper ballots were measured, there was an average difference of 2 votes out of 1,000 between electronic and paper counting. Therefore, the Smartmatic system requires changes that will be important to make. In view of the 2007 Be Voting Report to which you referred, Minister, a system that implemented the electronic voting system from the 2009 elections, it was stated that it was necessary to secure the equipment outside the polls. If you choose the rental, this important element of the Be Voting report cannot be guaranteed, because if the equipment is rented, it will pass from hand to hand and from country to country and security outside the polls will not be guaranteed. Finally, you say that you have a concern for economy and coherence. As far as the coherence between rental and purchase is concerned, we will see. But compared to the economy, it is very clear: the electronic voting system costs twice as much or even more. So there is no economic concern. You say there is no hard drive in the machines used for electronic voting. Maybe! But there is a vivid memory and in the event of a rental, there will undoubtedly be hand-to-hand passage of material that serves a fundamental right, that of voting. And that is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u131	I take note of the fact that your ministry considers that there is no problem of cohabitation between the Walloon, Flemish and Brussels systems. It is preferable that there are no cumulative problems. Our concern is to anticipate the acquisitions of the new equipment that the Brussels municipalities will need, but it does not concern you. I have no further comments to make and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u132	Question No 12433 by Mr Alain Top is postponed. The answer to his question No. 12434 will be given by the Minister of Justice. Mr David Clarinval and Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou are not here to ask their question Nos 12441 and 12444. Question No 12459 by Mr Franky Demon is transformed into a written question. Question No 12465 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois is postponed. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is not here to ask his question No 12481. Question No 12495 by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u133	Madam President, Minister, like other colleagues, I was concerned a year ago about threats of disappearance from the central federal police service that is fighting environmental crime, a worrying phenomenon. You yourself mentioned a probable disappearance of the service, which I had contested on principle. The 2016-2019 National Security Plan (PNS), which has just been presented, has since insisted on maintaining the presence of a central point Environment within the federal police and has identified four priorities: waste trafficking, trafficking in animal species and protected plants, animal welfare and finally the fight against eco-fraud. In all logical terms, I assume that this means that the threats to the Central Environment Service should be removed. I hope that you can confirm this, but also, if necessary, that you are committed to providing the service with sufficient human resources to enable it to carry out properly the tasks assigned to it, which require expertise, time and international contacts. In July 2015, you told me that in terms of staffing, the organic table 2ter provided for six PAHOs and two CALOGs, but that this service then had only five members of the operational framework and two members of the administrative and logistical framework, due to the retirement of one person. This framework already appeared to be very limited in relation to the extended tasks of the service. That is why I believe it needs to be expanded. Minister, can you tell me whether you are confirming the maintenance of an Environment focal point within the federal police force? Given the NSP's priorities in terms of environmental crime, what human and logistical resources will be provided to the Federal Police Environment Central Service? How many officers are currently active there? What are their duties and competencies? How will the framework evolve during the period 2016-2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u134	Mr Gilkinet, an Environment section is maintained within the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime (DJSOC), particularly in the National Security Plan department. It will deal with environmental crime, particularly waste fraud. All the security phenomena in the NSP, whose environmental crime deserves special attention and an integral and integrated approach in which the police play an important role. For these phenomena, the police will develop a programmed operation, i.e. projects to improve their daily work. A programme, as stipulated in Article 95 of the Integrated Police Act, will be developed by a team of eight full-time equivalents (FTEs): the programme manager who is a police division; two people for the network with deconcentrated local police directorates and partners (a police commissioner and a chief police inspector); one person for the follow-up of the European multi-disciplinary platform against criminal threats (Empact) or other European or supranational projects such as EnviCrimeNet, the informal network for inter alia the exchange of data between states within Europol (usually a police commissioner); three persons for the management of information and records (including one chief police inspector and two police inspectors), and one person from the administrative cadre. A programme can be supported for the monitoring of phenomena by the National Security Strategy and Plan service. This service has, since Organic Table 3 (OT 3), thirteen TFSs at its disposal for the monitoring of phenomena thanks to the economy of scale of optimisation. A programme is planned for waste fraud. The other three areas – biodiversity, animal welfare, energy fraud – will be dealt with by the integrated police, either by the local police, for the incidents attributed to them and by the federal police, including the de-concentrated units for the materials that occupy them. In any case, quality service must always be guaranteed in the context of integrated police operations, in close cooperation with the federal and federated entities competent in these matters. Currently, there are four people in the Environment department: one division, two senior inspectors and one inspector. The organizational framework of the Federal Police is determined by the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 laying down the distribution of the personnel of the Federal Police. Since it has just been fixed, I do not intend to change it immediately. Nevertheless, I hope that the federal police can act more flexibly with their personnel capabilities. The current context is for organizations to be more flexible. I have agreed with the Federal Police on measures to promote this flexibility. Adjustments must always be possible without I already being able to tell you in what direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u135	Thank you, Minister. On the one hand, I am pleased that the service has not been dismantled, because it seems essential to me. On the other hand, I am concerned that its mission at the federal level has been limited to waste fraud, which is of course a worrying and important phenomenon. However, you refer the other phenomena – biodiversity, animal welfare, eco-fraud – to local police who must certainly be able to intervene in the front line but who cannot carry out the work of expertise, international contacts, training. I really think that the option you have taken must be able to be evaluated. I have already asked you about other specific areas, be it financial crime, with the Central Office for Combating Organised Crime in Economic and Financial Matters (OECDFO), or the fight against antiques trafficking. I think this is an area specific enough to require specific expertise and resources. We see that there has been a small reverse, which I am delighted about. But I wonder if it is sufficient in relation to the phenomenon. I will continue to be attentive to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic453x.u136	Questions Nos. 12544, 12546 and 12547 by Ms. Katia Gabriëls were deferred. Question No 12578 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Mr Gilles Foret is not present to ask his question No 12582. Question No 12592 by Mr Emir Kir is postponed.
