ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we start our work with those who are here, and then we will finalize the management of all the issues. Question No 12914 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is transformed into a written question. I also turn my question No 13286 on gender-related data into a written question, if you can give me a paper copy of the answer. Mrs Kattrin Jadin also turned her question No 13303 into a written question. With regard to Joined Questions No 13357 by Mrs Karine Lalieux and No 13919 by Mr Marco Van Hees, the latter withdrew his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u2	Madam President, Minister, at the time of the sixth state reform, there was a discussion during the negotiations on the importance of continuing to integrate, including for transferred materials, the patient's cost as part of the maximum bill (MAF). Article 44 of the Special Law on the Sixth Reform of the State is concerned. Until the adoption of this Act, moderator tickets, whose jurisdiction was transferred to federated entities, were taken into account in the Federal MAF. This is, for example, the personal share of the daily price of isolated G and Sp hospitals and the personal share of the day price of certain revalidation institutions. The explanatory statement of this special law is very clear: "In order to ensure continuity and budgetary neutrality for the patient, the Communities and COCOM will be able, during a transitional period and only if they so wish, to continue to call on the federal authority in order to continue to incorporate, against payment, the benefits referred to above, capped at the current amounts indexed and provided that the benefit remains comparable to that of today, in the federal MAF meter". It is also stated that "each Community (with COCOM for Brussels) will be able to give up this service, provided that it informs the federal authority ten months in advance, except in 2014 where this choice can be communicated until 1 October. After 31 December 2019, the extension of the system requires the conclusion of a cooperation agreement, possibly asymmetrical, between the federal authority and entities wishing to continue to participate in it." Madam Minister, in practice, does the system set up by the special law on the sixth reform of the State work and make it possible in practice to guarantee continuity and budgetary neutrality for the patient? Have all the Communities continued to call on the federal authority to continue to integrate the benefits covered by the federal FAM to date? Have you received a request from one of the Communities to conclude a cooperation agreement to extend the system beyond 31 December 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u3	Madam President, our colleague, Valerie Van Peel, is on his way. She didn't know the question would be addressed first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u4	Madam President, it is not the first question. It's the next question. The current question is Mrs Fonck's alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u5	Is it the combined question? [[No.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u6	Mrs Fonck, the provisions contained in the special law on the sixth reform of the State concerning the maximum charge (MAF) are fully implemented. Moderator tickets actually paid in the eight hospitals (G and Sp), in the revalidation establishments which were transferred to the Communities, are recorded by mutuals and included in the MAF counters. So far, all the Communities are using this arrangement, for which they must also pay a lump sum to the federal authority. So far, I am not aware of a request from a Community to conclude a cooperation agreement with the federal authority in order to be able to extend this arrangement beyond 31 December 2019, but as you said they were ten months in advance, I think they still have time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. All right, but until now, the patient benefits from integration into the MAF, regardless of the level of power under which care, whether cure or care, is provided. I believe that the issue must first and foremost remain that of the patient's cost, especially for patients who are targeted by the MAF. These are patients who suffer from chronic and most often serious pathologies. I hope that the Communities, even if it is not exactly within your competence, will continue this model beyond 31 December 2019. Otherwise, patients would obviously be penalized. Perhaps it would be prudent, Madam Minister, for you in the Inter-Ministerial Conference to remind the Communities of the need to conclude a cooperation agreement so that it can be extended beyond 31 December 2019. The stakes are worth it to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u8	Madam President, Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about the safety of general practitioners. Dr. François Depoorter's last attack on Forest is a grievous fact. Last April, you told me that you were going to discuss this issue with the Minister of the Interior. In particular, it had been agreed at that time that a working group should be set up. Since then, the reflection with doctors, whether it be through the Belgian Group of General Practitioners (GBO) or the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions (ABSyM), is well under way to move forward on two aspects that seem fundamental to me. The first concerns the possibility of having a very useful emergency appeal in case of aggression and which, in my view, would also have a deterrent effect. The second part is the path also mentioned by doctors to have a list of patients at risk of slipping. These patients could only receive care under enhanced and strict security conditions, including night escorts, etc. These are really two measures that seem to me to be complementary and important. I wanted to see what was happening and how we could now move forward in a concrete and effective way because every new aggression is a catastrophic situation. I can assure you that the last one was especially so. I know the victim's relatives well. This aggression was particularly violent. I would also like to draw your attention, if I may, to the fact that there is a significant problem in the case of violence, which nevertheless occurs in the exercise of the profession, since professional liability insurances consider that they should not intervene. On the indemnification side, for example, there is a refusal by insurers because it is an act of violence when it intervenes directly in the exercise of the profession, which I find totally unacceptable, minister. I would like you to speak with the assurances and especially with Assuralia, so that this type of motive cannot be invoked for reasons that are absolutely not admissible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u9	Mrs Fonck, following my consultation with the Minister of the Interior last February, it was decided to set up a working group on the safety of healthcare providers. This working group was set up within the Directorate of Local Security of the Internal SPF and thus falls within the remit of the Minister of the Interior. The objective of this working group is to formulate recommendations to avoid any form of violence against caregivers. In the meantime, a first meeting of the working group was held. In addition to representatives of the Directorate of Local Security, the following organizations were represented or invited: the various medical unions, the College of Physicians, the Public Health FPS and the Praag Group (Patrick Roelandt Anti-Aggression Group). My firm was also represented. The Order proposed to create a contact point for acts of violence on its website. In addition, he will carry out a survey in collaboration with the VUB among general practitioners. This investigation will begin in the next few days. Once the results of the survey are available, the working group will reconvene to formulate the necessary policy proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u10	Minister, the point of contact already exists, as do statistics on attacks. Of course, I am still hungry for your answer. What about an emergency call, which can have a deterrent effect, very useful in case of aggression? What about this list of patients who could only receive care under strengthened and strict conditions of safety, in particular on the basis of the idea expressed by the Order of Physicians? What about the refusal of professional civil liability, allegedly because it is an act of aggression and violence even though the act is suffered in the exercise of the profession? I asked you to discuss this with Assuralia and the insurance industry. Minister, we could really move forward on this issue because the issues are major. It would be a shame to wait for further attacks to act effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you several questions on this issue. I come back almost every year on the issue of the double cohort. Indeed, studies have increased from seven to six years. Thus, in 2018, the Masters of 6th and 7th year will be released at the same time. The main question is how the internships of general practitioners and training specialists will be organized to ensure that the number of places is sufficient, but also to provide them with quality training. Now a little over a year ago, you told me that you were looking at the issue, but that you could not give me more information, particularly on the timetable. I know that all the universities have stood on the file and have put forward a whole series of very constructive proposals in this area. I also know that work is under way within the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners. The three issues that need to be addressed in particular are: the availability of internships, the maintenance of the quality of vocational training, and adequate funding. It is now more than ever time to see clearly in this dossier, in order to have time to implement the necessary measures. I would therefore like to hear from you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u12	Madam Minister, I will be brief because most of this has already been said by Mr Fonck. I have also asked you a few questions about this last time in July. Then you talked about the budgetary initiatives you took. Among other things, you wanted to free up EUR 10 million to provide internships in non-university hospitals, which I believe is a very good measure. You also indicated at that time that several other matters had to be investigated and worked out, such as lowering the seniority conditions for internships and staff members and providing sufficient capacity and internships. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play now? We are a few months away and time is beginning to run short, as you know. In the meantime, have there been other practicalities, for example as regards the conditions of seniority? I believe that there has already been an opinion on this matter from the Supreme Court of Medical Specialists and GPs. Can it be implemented? Were there any other support measures that have now passed the stage of the investigation and become more concrete?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u13	Mrs Fonck, mevrouw Van Peel, my administration is currently analysing the occupation of internship places taking into account the "Basic Scenarios of the Evolution of the Labour Force" published for each medical specialty in June 2016 by the Planning Commission. This fall, the Conseil Supérieur des Médecins Specialists et Généralistes will make final recommendations to deal with the dual cohort. Following earlier opinions of the said Council, the Ministerial Decision of 23 April 2014 on the cross-cutting criteria for the recognition of internship managers and internship services is also amended. It provides, inter alia, for a relaxation of the conditions for recognition as an internship master. That amending act already entered into force on 1 October and is therefore already applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I sum up, this royal decree relaxes the criteria for approval. For the rest, the administration is working. I think I can clearly say that the amendment to the Royal Order is sensible, but it will not be enough to take on the number of young doctors, either for general or specialized medicine. It is good to say that you are studying the dossier, but even though the Higher Council of Specialists and General Practitioners has already put forward a whole series of proposals, we could have obtained at the level of Parliament a minimum of information and, at the very least, exchanged on the subject. I regret that, but I can only urge you to do so quickly. To believe that there will all of a sudden be new general practitioners, who will be approved to be trainee masters with a spoon to pot overnight, is a complete decoy. On the other hand, I encourage you to pay attention to the funding component, since the government is pulling the strings to the point of giving them away on all sides. If we continue like this, we will find ourselves in great difficulty for these double cohorts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u15	Madam Secretary, in July you announced the EUR 10 million. Now you say you've eased the conditions. So it's a step every time. I think you will also feel that there are still a few steps to be taken and I hope that we will be able to move quickly. I understand it's not an obvious story. We will have to come back again to see where we can land. Of course, we still have some time. I hope you see it as well as an opportunity, as I do, and not just as a challenge. In fact, you have already referred to this in previous answers. It is also an opportunity to deal with shortages in certain specialties. It will therefore have to be very targeted, but we will be able to go into this in greater depth next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u16	Questions Nos 13411 and 13412 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u17	Mrs. Muylle is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I understand that incontinence is a federal concession for the needy. In July, a story appeared in the newspapers of a girl who was born with an open back so that she could not go to the toilet on her own, but had to be sonned. I believe that her mother has sent a letter to each of us because she would like to claim the forfait for incontinence. She applied for compensation for this. In reply, she received that her daughter is eligible, but that the waiting period is four months. The problem is that the waiting period starts to run again and again when the daughter is admitted to hospital. However, that is a certainty with an open back. She is also hospitalized regularly due to epilepsy. Madam Secretary, have you taken note of that file? Are you prepared to allow an exception or to seek a solution in a certain way, so that that daughter or her mother can claim that forfait?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat that particular case. In general, I can say that people in need sometimes do not qualify for the allowance because an uninterrupted period of four months has to precede the payment. Madam Minister, is that statement, as it is expressed in the media, correct, or can that period be interrupted? Does a hospitalisation interfere with the completion of the waiting period or not? There are also complaints about the transition from a small one to a large one. Once a person has obtained a small flat rate, another year must pass before the transition to a large flat rate can be made. In the event of a rapidly deteriorating situation, the period of one year may be far too long. The mutualities would respond to this by delaying the application for a small forfait, with a view to a short-term deterioration, but that is, of course, not an optimal situation. Madam Secretary, is that true? Do you have any knowledge of that? Do you foresee changes in this respect or do you intend to work on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u20	Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Jiroflée, the compulsory medical care and benefit insurance system seeks in various ways to reduce the financial burden of those entitled to an incontinence problem. In the first instance, several benefits in kind are included in the nomenclature for which there are interventions for both urinary incontinence and faecal incontinence. In addition to these interventions, two forfaits have been set up to further support those entitled to an incontinence problem, namely the incontinence for untreatable urinary incontinence and the incontinence for dependent persons. The incontinence breach for dependent persons was introduced in order to intervene heavily dependent right holders staying at home for products related to their incontinence. The beneficiary must have obtained the agreement of the consultant for a period of four months, calculated within a period of 12 months before the decision to grant the benefit, for a nurse's act which may give rise to the payment of the flat rate B or C, provided that a score of 3 or 4 is indicated in the schedule of dependency for the criterion incontinence. In order to achieve this objective, persons who receive a concession for car accidents are not excluded. The objective of the incontinence breach for untreatable urinary incontinence is to intervene with untreatable urinary incontinence beneficiaries who do not receive any other intervention from compulsory sickness insurance. Therefore, those entitled who are already entitled to an allowance for car accidents are not entitled to such compensation. At present, the administration is examining a number of reform proposals for both flat rates. For example, it is examined whether a better alignment of both flat rates can be achieved. This problem was also raised by the members of the Observatory for Chronic Diseases. The administration, in consultation with my policy cell, recently submitted a proposal to the Federal Knowledge Centre to examine the costs associated with incontinence problems. This study could examine the costs of the right holders, the best way of financing the incontinence material, and the incentives for funding to try to remove the right holders from the incontinence. Given the scale of this study, a subsequent possible adaptation of the regulation cannot be carried out in the short term. Hence the current initiative of my administration. In reply to your second question, I would like to inform you that there is not really a waiting period for granting the flat rate for dependent persons. The rightholder must have obtained an agreement for a period of four months within a period of 12 months for the flat rate B or C debt, as just mentioned, but this is a condition for obtaining the flat rate, since it indicates that the rightholder is heavily dependent and that this dependency is chronic. After all, the forfait has been created for chronic, heavily dependent people. It is therefore not a matter of waiting time, but of a condition to be entitled to the penalty. Moreover, as a general rule, the concession is automatically granted and renewed, i.e. without the rightholder having to take the initiative himself. Consequently, it does not seem appropriate to interfere in this point with the conditions that apply everywhere, regardless of the condition or underlying problem. In reply to your third question, I would like to clarify that there is no restart of the waiting period. The condition "not staying in an institution on the last day of the four-month period' serves to verify whether the rightholder is staying at home. Indeed, incontinence breaches have been created to support right holders with an incontinence problem who are staying at home. In the case of beneficiaries residing in an institution, the compulsory health insurance shall intervene in a different way. I would like to stress that right holders should not stay at home for four months, but only on the last day of the reference day. So what is in that article is wrong, but we do not know that everything that is printed is true. In reply to the questions related to the story of the five-year-old girl, I can answer you that this problem was discussed by the patient organizations and the insurance institutions in the womb of the Observatory for chronic diseases. We take these problems and concerns to heart. I have instructed my administration to achieve a number of improvements in the relatively short term through an adjustment of the Royal Decree of 2 July 1998 establishing the concession of compulsory medical care insurance for the incontinence material.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Committee is pleased to note that the individual problems are also addressed and that they are taken into account in the reform, thus providing an opportunity for improvement and taking them into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u22	Madam President, I am pleased that the Minister has apparently looked at the whole issue and that there may be refinements to the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u23	Madam President, I assume Mrs Muylle is no longer coming. If she's still coming, I'd be happy to wait. She's not coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u24	Usually, Ms. Muylle is present when she wants to ask questions or she warns that she will not ask them. So I cannot systematically postpone the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u25	Madam Minister, it is an older question, which dates back to 1 September 2016. On 27 July 2015, you concluded a future pact with the umbrella organisations of the pharmaceutical industry. The content of the agreement package has already been discussed. So I don't have to dwell on that. However, it appears that the government will have to spend EUR 300 million more than the amount registered in the future pact. Is the estimate correct? What impact does it have on the future pact? Will you stick to the pact and, so to speak, let them pay for the extra costs themselves? On the other hand, are you taking additional measures? If so, what are these measures? Are there perhaps other sectors in sight for exceeding the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u26	Mrs Jiroflée, it is indeed an older question, in particular on the budgetary estimates relating to the health budget, including expenditure on proprietary medicinal products. The figures to which CM refers are the difference in 2017 between the estimates and the budgetary trajectory, as set out in the Future Pact for the patient with the pharmaceutical industry. According to estimates, the difference was 335 million euros in 2017. The large increase is mainly due to the more than normal amount of innovative products available over the past year and the high budgetary cost for a number of new medicines, such as hepatitis C medicines and immunotherapeutic medicines in the fight against cancer. While gross expenditure does not take into account the budgetary compensation for those innovative products under the Article 81 agreements, in which this is translated. In the future pact for patients with the pharmaceutical sector, a specific budget path was agreed with the sector. When the estimates became known, we sat down at the table. Both Febelgen and phama.be have agreed to respect the budgetary path. Now, when we look at the effort made by the pharmaceutical industry, we see that they have not only compensated to stay on the route, but that they have also made an additional effort of EUR 20 million, especially pharma.be. They have contributed in this way to closing the gap in the budget. They therefore remain, on the one hand, on the route and on the other hand, additional savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u27	You yourself have done well, Madam President, it is to close the gap in the budget. I suggest that we return to the correct figures and to the whole discussion when we discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u28	In discussing the budget, it does seem to me to be the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u29	Question No 13426 by Mrs De Coninck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u30	Minister, I tabled this question in early September. I shall therefore, if I may, move out of the text because it is absolutely out of the question. Indeed, we are no longer before, but after the start-up conference on the reform of Royal Decree No. 78. I had the opportunity to attend almost all afternoon and took note of the information given at that time. Of course, I'm not going to make you repeat what I've already learned at the start conference. On the other hand, there is one point that I really think is existential. On that day, information was given. I know, moreover, that both can submit and send comments on the website www.ar78.be, but the key question in this dossier to move forward in a positive and constructive way is to have a real consultation with the various health professionals concerned. I would therefore like to focus my speech today – beyond all the information you gave on that day, which I became aware of at that time – on how you are going to organise this consultation with all professionals. At what rate? And under what modalities of consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, indeed, my questions were tabled after the start-up conference. Despite all the information provided by the minister, there are still a number of areas of shadow that I would like to clarify this afternoon. Five questions were joined. I will try to make a synthesis of it to avoid wasting time on everyone, but I still want to talk to them. The guidelines for the reform of Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 relating to the exercise of the health care professions were presented on 28 September. On that occasion, the main concepts of the reform were outlined. In this context, a broad public consultation, to which we have just referred, will be held until 30 November next. Apparently, every citizen will be able to convey his or her opinions or suggestions. At this conference, however, no specific information was given on individual professions, as our colleague has just mentioned in his question. The stakeholders have apparently already had to submit their opinions in this context. Minister, could you please tell us who was consulted in defining the main thrusts of this reform? For what reasons did this broad popular consultation take place? Why did you organize it after clearly defining the guidelines and the main elements of the reform? How will opinions and suggestions from citizens be evaluated? Who will take care of it? Moreover, you say that you have already received the opinions of the stakeholders in the context of the specific reforms of the practice of the care professions. What are they? From whom do the opinions received come? How will they be examined? How will the consultation be organised afterwards? You have also emphasized the central position and autonomy that the patient would have in the future as part of his medical care. The latter would also be the manager of his IPR (computerised patient file). The provider will be the "co-pilot" only. You consider it essential that care providers provide patients with correct and understandable information as part of their care. This is not new since it is already, I believe, part of the rights and obligations of each other. You also say that it is the patient who defines his or her care and that it is necessary to increase his or her ability to take care of himself or herself. Could you tell us what you mean by that? You seem to assume that all of our people have the capacity and skills to do so. Yet you know that this is not the case. Do you intend to provide safeguards to ensure that everyone, including the most vulnerable, continues to have access to the care they need? As part of this empowerment, you mention the need to develop telemedicine. Of course, this is a vast project. Consultations were expected in the context of the development and provision of medical devices and equipment at the patient's home in order to frame this important technological shift. Could you tell us if they have already taken place and what emerges from it? Minister, I would also like to touch briefly on the issue of consultation with the federated entities in the context of this reform. It seems essential to take into account federal, regional and community competences to implement this reform. Everyone knows that curative care is the federal responsibility and that preventive care is the responsibility of the federated entities. Minister, how is consultation with federated entities taking place? Have they already been consulted to define the main lines of reform? What will be the important elements of the consultation? Future legislation will be based on three pillars: competent care providers – I hope that this is already the case – integrated and multidisciplinary care, a central place for the patient. In your new model, while you want to transform the pyramidal concept of AR 78 into a flower scheme, there is still a form of hierarchy, with the doctor at the top. Thus, only the doctor will be able to prescribe and make a diagnosis with psychologists and orthopedagogues clinicians. In the context of strengthening integrated and multidisciplinary care, the concept of group prescription also appears. Madam Minister, can you already tell us whether, in the future, only doctors will be allowed to perform prescriptions or whether you are considering allowing other healthcare professions to do so in very specific cases? Can you explain more precisely what the group prescription is? As part of multidisciplinary management, how will the completion of treatment be assessed and how will the issue of responsibilities be addressed? I conclude with the reform of the opinion bodies. If it is accepted that these different bodies of opinion have so far done good work, you are also clearly calling them into question. You believe that the compliant and binding opinions they draw up lead to problems of consistency and constitute a segmented corporate system. Thus, all these bodies would disappear in favour of a single board of health professions with a chamber of ethics, if I understood correctly. It seems to me, in your way of proceeding, beyond the problems of coherence that you say you want to resolve, that your aim is above all to give full powers to politics for the decisions that will be taken in the future. According to the information given at the conference, this council would be a broad interdisciplinary forum with a purely consultative role. Do you want to have easier access to the opinions of the working groups that make up this council, and therefore of those from the professions represented? Do you confirm that there will no longer be any binding opinions in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u32	Yeah, I've already talked about it. We met in the hallways that day, Mrs. Fonck. As early as 2014, in preparation for this ambitious work to reform the regulation of the health professions, numerous discussions with the protagonists of the various professional groups, the academic world and the authorities, beyond each group of professions, took place. I give you a list of the organizations that have been consulted. I'll pass it on to the president. These organizations are very numerous. [[The SPF Public Health, the Federal Council of the Circles of General Physicians, the Commission of Psychologists, the Provincial Medical Commissions, the Planning Commission, the INAMI, the University of Ghent, the University of Louvain, Arteveldehogeschool Gent, UCLL, KKMG, the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the Koninklijke Academie voor Geneeskunde, ABSyM, Domus Medica, Society of Dental Medicine, Dental Trade Union Chambers, PDB, VBT, VVT, Order of Physicians, Order of Pharmacists, Axxon, National Federation of Nurses of Belgium, Federale Neutrale Beroepsvereniging Verpleegkundigen, General Union of Nurses of Belgium, Vlaamse Verpleegunie, NVKVV, Belgische Federatie voor Zorgkundigen, Unie van Vlaamse Vroedvrouwen, Vivalia, Belgian Association of Laboratory Technologists, Scientific Institute of Public Health, Vlaammsse Verengorge, Vorgonegone, Vor ergoepgen, Vor Ergoepgen, Vor]] Various professions were also reviewed: physicians, physicists, assistants, practical assistants, dentists, dental hygienists, pharmacists, pharmaceutical-technical assistants, physiotherapists, nurses, caregivers, midwives, ambulance attendants, clinician psychologists and paramedical clinician orthopedagogues, medical laboratory technologists, logopedes, occupational therapists, pedologists, dieteticians, orthopedists, audiologists, auditorians, prothesists, medical imaging technologists, band operators, orthesists, provincial medical commissions, planning commissions, organization of the custody system, federal advisory boards, delegated acts. There was very broad consultation. The conclusions of these exchanges were discussed at the presentation conference of the project on 28 September. I can confirm that many topics have been discussed. Last year, advisory councils on health-care professions were requested, as provided for in the Act of 10 May 2015, to provide advice on the basic skills and objectives of training in the field of care for which they are competent. As far as they are available, these opinions are being analysed. A launch conference was held on 28 September, at which the reform guidelines were presented. Their description is only the result of the preliminary consultation. A public consultation is under way on the website "ar78.be". Representative organisations will also be heard. Ultimately, the legal framework will be set by the legislator. In other words, this is a proposal following a first round. At the moment, we are organizing a very large consultative round facilitated by the said website. Of course, we will adapt what has been presented. You will notice, in fact, that the concept of patient autonomy (patient empowerment) and health literacy have been taken up as the pillars of this reform, which also includes the professional autonomy and qualifications of the practitioner, on the one hand, and multidisciplinary collaboration, on the other, with the aim of achieving quality and effective integrated care. It is the responsibility of the care provider to contribute to the strengthening of the patient's autonomy so that, in accordance with article 5 of the 2002 Law on the Rights of the Patient, he can assert his right to a quality service with respect for his dignity and self-determination, without any distinction whatsoever. Computerized patient record management is integrated and managed in collaboration with the patient. It is one of the instruments by which it can exercise its right to self-determination and autonomy. Telemedicine could play an important role. This is all part of the important e-health project. As far as the Regions are concerned, on Wednesday, 5 October, a first harmonisation took place in the Health Care Professions Working Group of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. The topics discussed in the report are training, planning and quality control in the context of medical practice. You are also referring to direct access models implying that medical prescriptions would no longer be necessary to go to a non-medical care provider. It is clear that this requires concerted action on actions for which direct access is possible. The Council of Health Care Professions will be asked to formulate an opinion. In addition, it should be pointed out that a number of acts will be reserved exclusively for doctors, as well as for other groups of well-defined providers. With regard to group prescriptions, it is clear that the final responsibility remains with the prescribing physician and that each provider is required to act conscientiously and within the limits of his or her competence. The last response concerns the reform of the advisory bodies. These bodies are currently working in a compartmentalized and parallel manner. It is therefore desirable to establish an integrated council for the health care professions which can deliver coherent opinions independently of any corporatism and the defence of interests. Finally, I note that the proposed Health Care Professions Council, as well as the working groups set up within it, are not decision-making bodies but advisory bodies. Of course, if the executive branch derogates from an opinion contained in a regulatory order, it should be duly justified, in accordance with the principle of constitutional legality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u33	Mr. President, Madam Minister, thank you. There is obviously a lot of evidence. I'm not just referring to your answer. But on this project, I am not going to come at this stage with the various points that concern me, but I would like to make a three-pronged conclusion. First, there was indeed a first round. It is true that many months have passed. There was this briefing. But I would really like to stress that, beyond the public consultation that you are doing via the website "ar78.be", for the next round, once we are going to get into the substance of the subject at the level of legislative changes – since three different laws will be implemented – we have not only consulted people, but we can have a consultation on the texts. The discussions will only be enriched with the expertise of the field. Secondly, with regard to these consultations, there is the item "harmonisation" in the working group on health professions which was made at the Interministerial Conference in October. I was struck, at the launch conference, by the way the representatives of your office separated, as if it were cutting with a knife, the cure and the caress. But it never cuts with a knife. Singularly for chronic patients. A whole series of topics mentioned as positions already taken must clearly go through discussions with federated entities. Thirdly, I would also like to call you to some kind of vigilance. I know that the pyramid has become a flower, in the way you now want to design the organization of health care. The disadvantage of the flower is that it places a very strong responsibility, in the steering, on the patient and his relatives. This may work, but in a number of cases, this steering to the patient or his or her loved ones is far too important and will not really be carried, realized and assumed by any health care professional. On this point, I think we still have to have some kind of vigilance in order not to end up with patients who, in the end, are no longer driven by anyone. Finally, a small addition, some elements are completely absent from the launch conference. I am thinking, for example, of the whole field of clinical research. They're nowhere in your daisy. There are, of course, a number of questions in this area. It's never just an example, because there are others who hit me that day. This means, therefore, that the construction site must really take into account the expertise and opinions of the field players, beyond the stakeholders and the various representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u34	I thank the minister for her rather complex answer given the number of questions. We'll take a closer look at this. I agree with the comment just made by my colleague, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to a survey carried out by Test-Achats among 450 Belgians aged 30 to 79, improvements in the law on patients' rights must be considered. Only one in seven respondents considered that they were well informed of their rights as a patient, and only one in three people knew that their rights were the subject of a law. In addition, a large majority of respondents consider themselves to be moderately or poorly informed. While the right to consult its file appears to be fairly well known, six out of ten respondents report problems in accessing it. In addition, 18% of respondents indicated that they would not file a complaint against a health care provider. The reasons are the fear of being less well cared for, the fact that they do not know where to go, the conviction that this is a waste of time and that the procedure is too complicated. This is why Test-Achats advocates for an improvement of the law by proposing various avenues, such as the establishment of a free information line to find clear answers to questions relating to complaints, greater independence of the mediation services or the establishment of an independent monitoring commission to verify the proper functioning of the structures and to deal with complaints against the mediation services. Minister, have you been aware of this investigation? Are you aware of any other studies on the subject? Do you think, like Test-Achats, that patients are not yet sufficiently aware of their rights? If so, are you considering measures to improve the situation? What do you think of the leads mentioned by Test-Achats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u36	Mr. Frédéric, the article in Test-Achats that you're talking about presents some leads to strengthen the action and effectiveness of the Federal Mediation Service for Patient Rights. I remain attentive to all signals and ideas coming from the field. On the other hand, I note that efforts have been made to publicize the 2002 Patient Rights Act, both to patients and to health professionals. These actions were carried out by the Public Health FPS. Platforms from patient organizations such as LUSS and Vlaamse Patientenplatform have also organized campaigns to their members. The distribution of FPS promotional material continues on a regular and continuous basis over the years and in various forms. The most recent campaign was held on December 8, 2015. A new promotional tool has been and has been distributed: eight two-minute educational films showing concretely each of the patient's rights. The films were distributed to industry partners. Some of them have placed them on their websites. Every citizen can also watch small films through the You Tube space of the Public Health FPS. As a Federal Mediation Service Patient Rights, this cell plays a role of listening and guiding for patients who complain and who have specific questions about their rights. The cell shall ensure that the patients concerned are informed of the authorities that could deal with their complaints according to the type of complaint in question. The cell's 2015 annual report states that of the 792 complaints received, 281 were dealt with directly by it, 195 complaints were referred to the local mediation services and 287 to third parties, whether in the defence services of the members of the mutuals, the compensation fund for medication accidents, the College of Physicians, the inspection services of care institutions, INAMI, etc. The cell also records nearly 370 requests for information on the patient's rights. With regard to the functioning of the Federal Ombudsman Service for Patient Rights at the local level, I would like to stress that in 2014, hospital mediators registered more than 14,500 patient complaints. Both at the local level and at the Federal Mediation Service, Patient Rights, the numbers of complaints and requests are increasing each year and reflect the growing visibility and knowledge of mediation services and patient rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u37	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answers. It is true that by listening to you, many things are set in place, but perhaps paradoxically. Indeed, one in seven people considers that they are not informed of their rights. I think we need to be careful. I'm not saying it has scientific value because the study comes from Test-Achats. Between what is being put in place and the perception of people on the ground, there is still a differential to which we must continue to pay attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u38	It is true that there is a tendency sometimes to overinvest information resources, but this requires a proactive approach. Sometimes it is those who need it most.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u39	Madam President, Minister, this summer, a campaign was launched via billboards and signs. The letters symbolizing the blood groups had been removed to remind people of the shortage of blood and call for solidarity so that anyone in need of blood could be transfused. Minister, can you tell us what was the situation with regard to blood stocks this summer? Was it similar to other years? Has this campaign borne fruit? How much? You will, in agreement with the Red Cross, reopen the blood donation to abstinent homosexuals for the past year. You told me about it very recently and you told me that your project was almost ready. This measure is already applicable in other European countries. Have there ever been homosexual donors in these countries in the centres since then? How much? Is there any change in this number? How have conditions of access to blood donation, different from country to country, whether or not conditioned by prior sexual abstinence on the part of homosexual donors, affected the number? Has the involvement of homosexuals in the donation of blood led to a possible shortage? Were the blood donations of homosexuals checked to ensure that they were safe? Were they therefore considered as reliable as the donations of others? In the light of this practical experience, is it envisaged in these countries to allow, in the long run, the same conditions of openness to blood donation as for heterosexuals, to whom no prior sexual abstinence is required, even if they multiply adventures? What lessons do you learn to open up the blood donation to homosexuals and enable them to contribute to a sufficient supply of blood to our health care system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I come back to you on a subject that, as you know now, is very much at my heart, namely the exclusion of blood donation for men who have sex with other men. I am pleased to recall that the Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice ruled on 17 July 2014 that homosexuality was not "in itself" a conduct that would justify the permanent exclusion of blood donation. On 25 May, as I asked you about the progress made in this area, almost a year after I tabled a motion for a resolution to review this criterion of exclusion, in particular following the opinion of the Higher Health Council, you informed me that a draft opinion had been presented to a group of stakeholders and that, moreover, you were waiting for the results of a round table organised on 27 May in the presence of various actors with expertise in this matter to guide you in your decision-making. Madam Minister, as you know, we believe that it is high time to put an end to this discrimination, namely the prohibition of the donation of blood for men who have sex with other men, especially since the Red Cross sometimes faces the risk of shortages. Has the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health on the appropriateness and possible conditions of a blood donation authorization for men who have had sex with other men been finally given? Can you tell us about his conclusions? If not, when is it expected? Can you also tell us what views were presented at the round table on 27 May by the various actors? What progress has been planned as a result of this meeting? Finally, are you able to tell us at what time male homosexuals will have the right to donate their blood in Belgium as is done, let us recall, in Australia or the United Kingdom and recently also in France and the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u41	Mr Flahaux, Mr Senesael, the campaign you are talking about was part of an international awareness campaign for the institutions in charge of blood donations. For strategic reasons, the campaign took place during the summer months, during which there is traditionally less donor abundance. An overview of the stocks of erythrocyte concentrate in the blood donation institutions in Belgium shows a marked increase from week 33, which can be attributed to this campaign. The figures of the Flemish Red Cross, published on its website, are indeed in line with this. Data on blood stocks available in the country's blood establishments do not make it possible to make a clear comparison with previous years. In Europe, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands took the option, respectively, in 2011 and 2015 to temporarily exclude donors for a period of 12 months after the last contact men who have sex with men. A recent article by Germain et al. Thus, 2016 shows that the incidence of HIV among blood donors remains unchanged after the temporary exclusion has been introduced. Accurate figures on the proportion of men who have sex with men donors in the donor population, the number of donations and their possible evolution are not yet available. As a result, the impact on the blood supply is unknown. In terms of infectious safety, HIV, hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV) and syphilis markers are detected at each donation and the available figure indicates that the number of HIV seroconversions in blood donors remains unchanged after adjustment for temporary exclusion. Blood transfusion centres use clear exclusion criteria for sexual behaviour at risk, regardless of the potential donor's orientation, based on an assessment of the risk of contracting an infectious disease transmissible by blood. After the round table, I am currently preparing a proposal to refer to the temporary exclusion criteria for risk behaviours in the Blood Act. The procedure should be followed, but there is no doubt that it is only a temporary exclusion and not a lifetime exclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u42	Minister, thank you for these answers. I look forward to the text that will come out. I understand that in France the same attitude has been adopted. If one opts for this document of abstinence for a year, I do not see why one does not make it sign also to heterosexuals who potentially multiply sexual adventures, and therefore the risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but it is slow, slow and slow! As Mr. Flahaux has just mentioned, homosexuals, as if they were all at risk, are being excluded in a truly pointy and misleading manner, while heterosexuals may also be at risk. There is not the same focus on them as on homosexuals. I understand that you will make a proposal to mention risk behaviours for a temporary exclusion of blood donation. I recall the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. We look forward to learning about this proposal so that we can position ourselves against your text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u44	It's a case to be followed up with eagerly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u45	Madam Minister, according to research, children under 14 years of age growing up in a 15-mile radius around the Mol-Dessel nuclear waste site receive two to three times more leukaemia than their peers. According to the researchers, there is also a link between the distance from the nuclear waste site and the wind direction in which the radioactive emissions are blowing. A follow-up study may be needed with a larger group, but this is a serious sign on the wall. Madam Secretary, do you take this problem seriously? What will you do to protect these children? Are you planning a follow-up? If so, with what timing? When will you be able to give more clarity to the families involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u46	Minister, this publication has just been recalled in the European Journal of Cancer Prevention. I have this study here and I have examined it. My colleague has just quoted the main conclusions. A further study will be necessary, as you have announced. That being said, this is not the first. We have the Belgian study Nucabel. We also have another one, which was taken up at the seminar of the French Nuclear Safety Authority held in June 2015. The same aspects had been identified. In addition, a whole series of studies have been carried out abroad, and include meta-analyses, sometimes with contrasting results, but sometimes with unfortunately positive results. I recall in particular this recent epidemiological study which showed an excess of leukemia in children aged 0 to 4 years around German nuclear power plants. It is known that it is not easy to draw conclusions from such studies. Indeed, these are small numbers. But meta-analyses include a series of data and studies that converge. I understand and agree with the fact that a supplementary study is being requested. At the same time, given the small number, the same type of conclusion is likely to be reached. Rather, my reasoning would lead me to say that in view of the results of meta-analysis studies and other situations of excess leukemia in this age group around nuclear power plants abroad, a stronger and ambitious step should be taken, and a precautionary principle should be applied within a geographical perimeter around the plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to the conclusions of a recent scientific study on the relationship between the geographical proximity of the Mol-Dessel nuclear zone and the epidemiological risk to the local population, children living within 15 kilometres of the site would be two to three times more likely to have childhood leukemia than their peers elsewhere in Belgium. For several years, the Mol-Dessel nuclear zone has been primarily responsible for the storage of nuclear materials. However, studies conducted in 2013 already reported the possibility of an increased risk of developing thyroid cancer by residing close to the site. While some experts temper these conclusions arguing that the number of children with leukemia in the region remains very low in absolute numbers, they nevertheless insist on the need to undertake further research to assess the relevance of this correlation at least of concern. Minister, have research recently been undertaken by your department on the possible correlation between the geographic proximity of a nuclear site and an increased epidemiological risk to the population concerned? If so, do they support the findings of the above study? Are measures to analyse in depth the presence of an increased epidemiological risk in the vicinity of nuclear sites possible? If so, what measures are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u48	Madam Minister, the other questioners have already outlined the outlines of the question and history. So I will not repeat it. I just wanted to add that the reason for the previous study was a German study of 2008 following the nuclear incident in Fleurus. At that time it was clear that there were some consequences for the health of children living in the vicinity of nuclear installations. Madam Secretary, my questions are similar. The additional research that has been ordered is still ongoing. If not, please provide the other information. When are the results of that study expected? What measures can be taken to better protect the health of those living around the nuclear sites, especially children's health?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u49	Madam Chair, let me begin by thanking Minister Marghem for letting several of my colleagues ask their questions this afternoon. This will be included in the record of our proceedings, as it is rare enough for me to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u50	Those who will ask their questions after you are less happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u51	I apologize to my colleagues, but when Minister Marghem behaves well, he must also be mentioned. Madam Minister, the press has recently echoed the epidemiological study carried out around nuclear sites in Belgium. In addition, a German study published at the end of 2007 – referred to earlier by my colleague – already found more cases of infant leukemia than expected among people living in the immediate vicinity of nuclear power plants. Another study, published in France, also highlighted an increase in leukemia among children under five years of age within a five-kilometre radius of nuclear sites. I have already had several discussions with the government on this issue. AFCN also reported at the time that in the vicinity of Mol-Dessel and Fleurus sites, the number of thyroid cancer cases was higher. In response to my written question No. 583, I was informed that it had been agreed that a follow-up epidemiological study should be organised, stating that it had been carried out in June 2015 and that the data were being processed. More than a year later, I assume you have received the results of this supplementary analysis. What does she say about each of the sites concerned? In November 2011, the PSI completed the introduction of its summary by stating that the Mol-Dessel and Fleurus nuclear sites raised issues. What now? What political conclusion do you draw from all these considerations for the country's energy future and the preservation of both the environment and the health of its citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u52	Madam President, in order to avoid being redundant, I shall sum up my question. Minister, in the De Morgen daily of September 12, 2016, an article was published that reported an increase in leukaemia among children aged 0 to 14 in the Mol-Dessel region. These findings again raise the question of a possible link between the presence of nuclear facilities and the occurrence of cancer in children. Of course, such results should be considered with caution and should be confirmed by additional scientific studies. Minister, do you consider it necessary to conduct new studies in order to establish or scientifically rule out the possible link between the presence of nuclear facilities and the occurrence of cancers in children living nearby?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u53	Thank you mevrouw Dedry, Mrs. Fonck, Ms. Jadin, Ms. Temmerman, Mr. Nollet and Mr. Senesael for your questions. The study of the Scientific Institute for Public Health, ISP in French, published in July 2016 in the European Journal of Cancer Prevention, finds an increase in acute leukaemia in children under 15 years of age close to Mol-Dessel's site. A number of comments can be made on this, as the scientists concerned confirm. I'll come back to that later. First of all, I'm giving you the naked results, but it's a little hard to draw any conclusions from that. The researchers see indeed a two to three times higher risk for the circles with a radius of 5 kilometers, 10 kilometers and 15 kilometers around the site of Mol-Dessel. There are no more statistically increased risk derivatives in a circle with a radius of 20 kilometres. This is a situation that also occurs abroad, in the sense that countries that observe increased risk derivatives around the nuclear sites are always able to find them in the vicinity of nuclear sites. One takes a circle with a radius of 5 kilometers, both in Germany and France, not at a greater distance. Children's leukemia is a rare disease, so we keep talking about limited numbers. Around the other nuclear sites, Target, Tihange and Fleurus, researchers do not observe a statistically significant increased risk of acute leukaemia in children under 15 years of age. In the Belgian territory around Chooz, there were no cases of acute leukaemia in children under 15 years of age for the period 2004-2008. Unlike the French study and also the German study, the KiGGS study, the researchers do not observe an increase in nuclear power plants, but rather around the site of Mol/Dessel, where a combination of industrial activities and research activities takes place. One of the limitations of the study of the Scientific Institute for Health was the short period for which cancer incidence data are available in Belgium. For the study, the dates were available from 2002 to 2008 for Flanders. For Brussels and Wallonia they were only available from 2004 to 2008, so two years less. A second disadvantage was that until then cancer data were only available at a relatively large geographical level in Belgium. When increases in diseases are observed around what we call point sources, the next step is to check whether there is any evidence for a possible association with a point source, in this case the Mol-Dessel nuclear site. The researchers tried this in that study. It has been checked whether there is an association between the new occurrence of child leukaemia and the distance, the dominant wind direction and the modelled emissions of argon-41. For each of these three surrogate exposures, the association with the new occurrence of child leukaemia proved significant for the site of Mol-Dessel. However, effects of the environment on health are often fairly localized phenomena. Since cancer data were only present at a relatively large geographical level, there is a real possibility of measurement distortion in the study. This one can go in two directions. It may be that we observe positive associations that are actually not there. It may also be that we do not find any associations, which are actually there. The decision of the previous study was therefore that, in order to verify associations with the nuclear site, cancer data in Belgium should be made available at the level of the statistical sector. In 2012, it was agreed to organize a follow-up study around nuclear sites once cancer data were available over a longer period of time. Data on the occurrence of new cancer cases in Belgium should also cover smaller geographical areas, i.e. the level of the statistical sector. The procedures for transcribing data on the occurrence of new cancer cases in this study to the statistical sector were launched and were successful in June 2015. Capacity is being deployed to allow the rapid launch of the follow-up study. As with the initial study, this follow-up study will be conducted by the consortium of the Public Health Institute (PHI), the Cancer Registry and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAA). The PSI will recruit a co-worker with the skills needed for further data preparation, execution, analysis and reporting. This follow-up study will also be conducted around nuclear sites in Doel, Tihange, Mol-Dessel, Fleurus and Chooz. Researchers will determine whether there is an increased occurrence of new cases of thyroid cancer for all ages and leukemia in children under the age of 15 around these sites, using cancer data up to 2012. They will also study whether or not there is a possible link between cancer onset and nuclear sites based on the following factors: distance from the site, wind orientation, and the AFCN emission model. It will take approximately one year for data preparation, analysis, reporting and communication. This will take place once the PSI has recruited a person with the necessary skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u54	Madam Minister, I understand from your answer that a number of scientific, statistical and other refinements are needed, as well as further research in order to obtain more clarity. However, you did not say what timing you had in mind. You say that the follow-up will take a year and that you are recruiting the researcher, but I do not think that timing is very specific. I understand implicitly from your answer that you take the problem seriously, but I think the timing is very flou.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. You're resuming a study. I think you will always have a small number, since it will be carried out on a Belgian scale with the number of sites we know about it. You know as well as I do that certain conclusions require studies of more sites, which will lead to statistically significant results. I believe that each European country has carried out a series of epidemiological monitoring studies with regard to its sites. It is becoming urgent to have a joint approach between the different European countries. Therefore, a well-performed study, at least at European level, will lead to results from which we can draw certain conclusions. Madam Minister, I am calling for the Belgian government to take a European position and ask for a major study on this issue to start in order to have conclusions. On the other hand, given the convergence with other studies themselves on small numbers - I mentioned earlier - I think that you should really take stock of these different results and consult with different scientific experts because, pending a broader study, the question really arises whether there is a precautionary measure to be taken for young children who are within a geographical radius of 5 km around the power stations. This is not an issue that can be decided politically, but one that scientists need to address. I urge you to bring them together. We have very good experts in Belgium, as there are at European level. This issue of the precautionary principle must now be put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u56	[[I have heard the Minister's very detailed answers.]] Indeed, I understand that it is appropriate to refine the data in order to have a more conclusive result. It is an answer that I obviously accept, Madam Minister, but as my colleague, Mrs Fonck, said, I also agree to argue for a debate on nuisances and epidemiology at a level that makes it possible to have far more convincing conclusions than on a smaller scale like that of our country. Having a joint approach at European level seems to me an excellent thing. In view of the events which we were aware of at the beginning of September, it seems to me appropriate, under the precautionary principle, to appoint one or the other expert. They will be able to provide results that will rule out any doubt about possible epidemiology.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, from which I understand that further research is possible. There are still data to be completed, with more precise work to be done. I think that's a good thing. I also welcome the fact that the environment of the other power stations is being studied at European level. I am somewhat concerned that in the meantime several studies have already shown that there may be a slight risk factor. There is no answer to the question of what precautions could be taken by now, because the investigation is still awaited, but that will take another year. In the meantime, a number of measures may already be taken. I agree that there should be no immediate panic, but I do think that provision should play an important role in this case. One more year or so, I think it's a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u58	Minister, this is not right! These studies have already begun. The first data are from 2002. It's 2016, fourteen years later, and you're telling us that you still have to hire someone, that you're going to launch a study, and "see again". However, the first figures indicate a risk. There is clearly a real risk and potential danger, and I remain cautious. Put yourself in the place of the families who live there, and the children who are concerned in the first place. I strongly advocate that you take precautionary measures. We're not saying it's scientifically determined, but we're working here with the human, with people who live there. They're asking questions. And we're still going to study the issue, when the first data are long ago? In conclusion to this exchange, my request is that you take prompt precautionary measures. Let the studies continue: no problem. As my colleagues have mentioned, we will be able to look at the situation at a higher level, and to broaden and deepen things. All right, but in the meantime, do it! This is my second request. The problem is not only about Mol and Dessel's site. I take back the figures published earlier, and I have them in front of me. They do apply a little less to plants as such, on the basis of the figures collected in Belgium, but there are those harvested in Germany. This also concerns the Fleurus site. Within a radius of 0 to 10 km and 0 to 15 km, we are beyond the figures for nuclear power plants. Of course, it is a little less than in Mol, but admit that with the uncertainty due to the small number of people involved, there is something to be worried about in that region too. Preventive measures should also be available, without waiting for the conclusion of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to make three points which corroborate what has just been said on the part of both sides: the situation is worrying; the precautionary principle is necessary and there are risk factors. Of course, we are calling for further studies and harmonisation at European level. But we cannot accept slowness. Nor can we accept the disarray in which the persons concerned find themselves. I also call for speeding up procedures to meet the legitimate expectations of the citizens concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u60	Minister, do you have anything to add about this way of acting in anticipation of the results of the study, in order to address the concerns of the families in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u61	As I said, the scientists themselves have said that the situation does not require provisional measures. We are waiting, but I note that Mrs Fonck has pleaded for a European study and that Mr Nollet has pleaded for provisional measures. I think I'm going to ask for an answer from the PSI and the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u62	In any case, we will return to this subject in the course of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, in June of this year, Test-Achats, the League of Users of Health Services and the National Mental Health College launched a petition to denounce the prices charged by pharmaceutical companies for certain medicines, which they consider to be increasingly untenable for the health care sector. They target in particular the prices of medicines for serious diseases such as cancers and rare diseases. At present, pharmaceutical companies defend themselves by arguing that research for these drugs is expensive, which I do not question at all. However, it is worth recalling that some of the research is funded by public funds and that these firms spend more on marketing than on research. On the other hand, while firms argue that large private costs are being paid, they never justify them. We therefore consider it essential to establish a more transparent system in this field in order to help the sick and their families already affected by the disease. Minister, are you aware of this petition? Are you considering new initiatives to improve the transparency of drug prices in the pharmaceutical industry and what strategy are you planning to allow for a significant reduction in the prices of certain innovative medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Lalieux, for your question. Indeed, the problem around the extremely high prices of innovative medicines, often indispensable for serious pathologies, and the petition launched by Test-Achats, LUSS and the National Intermutualist College are known to me. I can tell you again that access to new therapies for patients who really need them, as well as the sustainability of our social security system and more specifically health insurance, are very important to me. The cost of medical interventions and drugs has become a determining factor in this accessibility and sustainability, which explains my particular attention to this aspect. I can confirm that I intend to continue with the investments I have described with the sector in the Patient Future Pact, with the pharmaceutical industry, including the study in collaboration with the Minister of Economic Affairs on price transparency. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the problem of high prices for medicines is not a problem peculiar to Belgium. That is why I will continue to engage in discussions at European level and ensure that the issues and discussions related to them, as well as the real search for concrete solutions with all partners, including the pharmaceutical industry, remain at the top of the European agenda. I am convinced that the study of the KCE and Zorginstituut Nederland in the Netherlands "Payer's views on the changes arising through the possible adoption of adaptive pathways", to which INAMI experts have contributed, can be used as valuable support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have a Price Observatory. I was the initiator in Belgium. It is also important that drugs be transparent, not only in the price chain, but above all to ensure that research money is well invested in research and not in marketing. This is fundamental to ensuring the accessibility of our medicines. I will come back to the timing of this price transparency study with the Minister of Economy. This must, of course, be done at European level. When I hear you say that access to new therapies and insurability are important to you, I can doubt it when you see that you will have to save 3.5 billion over five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u66	This has nothing to do with it. We will invest $1.4 billion in innovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u67	We will return to these issues in the budget discussions on health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u68	I would point out to the members of the committee that the acoustics in this room are not at all perfect. If we don't have the helmet and we try to listen to the parliamentarian or the minister, when you talk to each other, it really makes a very important background noise. There's a wonderful hall with armchairs. Those who want to talk between two questions can do it in the lobby to allow us to work comfortably.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u69	Madam President, Madam Minister, last June you announced that you had released a budget of EUR 3.25 million for the implementation of e-health pilot projects. You focus on five areas of health: diabetes, mental health, stroke, cardiovascular care, and chronic pain. Minister, if my information is correct, a call for projects was to be launched at the end of June. Can you provide us with an update on the projects that were introduced, as well as those that were selected, and how the selection was made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u70	Mr Senesael, the call for mobile health pilot projects was launched in June. It was in progress until September 30th. There are 97 proposals. The selection will be carried out by a selection committee composed of specialists from the various administrations concerned, such as INAMI, AFMPS and the eHealth platform. The selection procedure will be carried out in several phases and will include administrative correction, followed by a positive or negative evaluation and pitching for projects that have received a positive evaluation. This pitching will be followed by a deliberation, after which final discussions will be held with the selected candidates. According to this planning, the first projects will actually be launched in December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u71	Minister, thank you for your precise answer, which includes the timeline. If you don't mind, in early next year, we will come back with this question to find out what projects have been selected and how they will evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u72	Madam Minister, some smart children are entitled to speech therapy, some less smart children are apparently not, because the way in which the reimbursement of language disorders and dysphasia by the RIZIV is done is closely related to the child's IQ. It was previously thought that in a child with an IQ below 86, language disadvantage was caused by lower general intelligence and it was considered that in that case there was no point in stimulating language development. In the meantime, thank goodness this is clearly in the past. It is now known that dysphasia and language disorders in such children can just push down the IQ. So, they're not less smart, they're just worse on the classic IQ tests, just because of their dysphasia or language disorder. Madam Minister, this outdated policy means that some of the children in need of speech therapy are not entitled to a refund. Not all parents can afford that. That's why they're pulling out, and that puts a heavy mortgage on their future. IQ boundaries are really out of line. People now work much more with intelligence profiles because they show much more clearly when there is a language disorder, apart from other development areas. Recently, an opinion of the National Supreme Court of Persons with a Disability Notice on the conditions for reimbursement of logo therapy costs was also published. That's why I have the following questions. How do you justify the refund policy for speech therapy? Do you agree with me that this 86-year-old IQ limit has really been exceeded? Wouldn't it be better to work with intelligence profiles? Do you intend to amend the regulations in this area? Do you follow the advice of the National High Council for Persons with Disability?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u73	Section 36 of the schedule to the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature of health care provides, in its § 2, that "the intervention of insurance may be granted provided that treatment can lead to an improvement of the disorders to the beneficiary who has one of the following language or speech disorders: language development disorders which are receptive and/or expressive and demonstrated by a language test giving a result of less than or equal to the third percentile in the absence of an intelligence disorder, i.e. total IQ of 86 or more measured by individual test, and in the absence of a significant hearing disorder - average hearing loss not exceeding the best ear 40 dB HL". Minister, this in fact means that a child with an IQ greater than 86 may benefit from the INAMI reimbursement system, while those whose IQ does not meet this threshold are excluded. You explained this measure in March 2015 by the fact that, "If this criterion of access is set for these disorders, it is precisely because patients who do not fulfil the condition that falls within the competence of the multidisciplinary institutions (...), in particular the compulsory rehabilitation centre. Patients are treated by different providers because their disorders have aspects falling within different disciplines and it is appropriate to treat them together." The measure is therefore based on the idea that children with intellectual disabilities attend specialized educational institutions where logopeds are responsible for delivering sessions to students. However, this vision poses a number of important problems on the ground. On the one hand, various testimonies indicate that these children do not always benefit from these scheduled sessions. They also raise the question of accompanying these children during school holidays, as well as the question of the continuity of the accompaniment at home, especially in the context of the establishment of an alternative communication. On the other hand, such a measure has a significant impact on the freedom of choice of the parents of these children, since some intellectually impaired children who could be integrated into these ordinary institutions should be eligible for reimbursement of the logopedia sessions, like any other child. In August 2007, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities issued an opinion on the issue of reimbursement of logopedia fees through health care insurance and specified six applications. Minister, have you read this 2016/13 notice from the National Council of Persons with Disabilities and all six requests? How do you intend to take this into account? Have you started thinking about changing the terms and conditions for the reimbursement of logopedia benefits? If so, can we shed some light on how you think about it? Is there any agreement with the actors in the field involved in this issue? What do you think of the idea of entrusting the KCE with the task of analysing this issue and the related budgetary issues, knowing that the KCE had published in 2009 a study on the operation of the ORL-Psy revalidation centres? If not, do you intend to start such a reflection? Thank you for the comprehensive answers that you would like to give to my multiple questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u74	Minister, my question is why people who are in the same situation are treated differently but cannot follow their treatment in compulsory rehabilitation centres, because they simply live too far away from these centres but have a monodisciplinary logopedia treatment close to them. This is really an injustice because we live in a region too far from the major urban centres. You can't be reimbursed only because you don't know how to access these outpatient centres. Minister, I am concerned about the situation of children whose intellectual quotient is less than 86. These children cannot have access to a paid monodisciplinary logopedia treatment. However, it is essential for these children. I am aware that these children can be cared for, with reimbursement, in outpatient rehabilitation centres. These centres provide multidisciplinary care. As you know, however, these centres do not adequately meet the needs of patients. They are very few, if any, in some provinces, such as Luxembourg and the South of Namibia. In October 2015, the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the National Association for Assistance to the Mentally Disabled issued a recommendation on the conditions for reimbursement of logopedia costs as set out in the current regulations and with the exclusion of reimbursements for non-multidisciplinary, multidisciplinary, multidisciplinary, multidisciplinary services for children with an intellectual quotient of less than 86. The National High Council for Persons with Disabilities also addressed the issue. My colleague, Mr de Lamotte, spoke about this earlier. Minister, given the fact that CRAs are dependent on federated entities and the need to find a comprehensive structural solution for children, do you intend to refer them to the Interdepartmental Conference? If so, when will this matter be dealt with? On the other hand, the budgetary cost of extending this treatment to monodisciplinary logopedes is often mentioned. What is the amount of this budget cost? Personally, I have the impression that he must not be well raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u75	Mrs Dedry, first of all I would like to make it clear that it is not right that children whose IQ is lower than 86 cannot receive speech therapy. That limit is laid down for the taking of charge in the multidisciplinary logopedia under the nomenclature of the logopedic benefits in kind and, as you mentioned, concerns only the treatment of disorders in oral language development and dysphasia. It is important that a multidisciplinary approach is better adapted for these children and has greater chances of success than a multidisciplinary treatment. The intention is to refer the child to the best possible solution for him or her and to use the available budgets as best as possible. In concrete terms, multidisciplinary treatments are carried out in the context of the centres for ambulatory rehabilitation, where patients are classified among target groups, in particular on the basis of their IQ. Some of these children also have special education where there is also an adapted paramedical care, in particular a logopedic care. Indeed, opinion No. 2016/13 of the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities to which you refer contains all these elements, in particular the opportunities offered by multidisciplinary treatment. However, the opinion denounces the lack of structures concerned, their geographical fragmentation, the length of waiting lists or the low intensity of treatment in relation to expectations. In any case, this is a less intensive treatment than the monodisciplinary logopedia used in the nomenclature. In addition, the opinion refers, as a reminder, to the requirements and recommendations addressed to our country by various bodies. As far as the challenges to the opinion are concerned, these areas do not fall within my remit. These include the outpatient rehabilitation centres already mentioned, which, following the sixth reform of the State, form part of the competences of the federated entities, as well as specialized education and support for persons with disabilities, which are already within the competence of the federated entities. Given that the above-mentioned structures do not yet meet the expectations and pending the decision of the policy-makers on investment in the sector, the argument in the opinion essentially concludes that the shortcomings must be eliminated by compulsory health care insurance and therefore by the federal government, in particular by amending Article 36 of the nomenclature of health care benefits so that the patients concerned can be cared for. Although I really care about the fate of these children, I am obliged to argue against the decision of the National Council. Its proposal will create considerable budgetary obstacles, bearing in mind that the entire health care insurance budget is already under heavy pressure, in particular the single-disciplinary logopedia budget. Such care has so far been spared and adapted to growing needs as a result of the current legal situation. At the moment, it seems impossible to finance relaxation or expansion to new patients or treatments. But first of all, I would like to stress, once again, that the monodisciplinary logopedia is not a solution for the children concerned. This issue is also addressed in a working group of the Interdepartmental Commission. I don't have his report here. Nor do I have the budgetary cost in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that it is of course a pity that you cannot make an additional budget in this area. Again, it shows how children or patients are affected by a lack of budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u77	Madam Chair, Minister, I hear your answer. I see breaks in the continuity of care, particularly with regard to the rehabilitation of children who have an IQ of less than 86, which poses problems in terms of the merits of treatment. I know that you are facing budgetary problems, but the fact remains that this choice has been made at some point. Mr. Clarinval had concerns about where children could not benefit from the services to which they were entitled. The order was approved by the government. We must therefore be careful at this level. Moreover, the situation in the remote areas of the centres is a real problem. Minister, I have heard your explanations on this, but I am not satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u78	Madam President, I did not intend to argue, but I would remind Mr de Lamotte that, in accordance with the reform of the State, the multidisciplinary structures are now in the hands of the Communities and the Regions and are therefore well placed to set up complementary structures. Indeed, if I am not mistaken, the CDH has been in power in the Walloon Region for decades. In doing so, I do not think his point is really timely. That said, minister, I am not an expert in this area, but some experts still point to the fact that some multidisciplinary treatments performed by specialized logopeds can be as effective as multidisciplinary treatments. I will not engage in a scientific debate because I do not have the necessary skills. But I will show a little more nuance when it comes to saying that this kind of treatment is not as effective. However, some areas unfortunately lack reception facilities, which I can only regret. I therefore appeal to Mr de Lamotte to convey this concern to the Communities and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u79	Madam Secretary, De Standaard reported that the reputable trade magazine JAMA has shown that the sugar lobby is operating in a similar way to the tobacco lobby. In the past, reports have already shown that sucrose can play a role in heart disease. However, the sugar lobby would have managed to reverse that tide and make us believe that not sugar but fat plays a role in heart disease. So much for media coverage. Madam Minister, it is certainly not the first time that the sugar lobby has been accused of using the same trickbox as the tobacco lobby. My questions are as follows. In the meantime, you have concluded a Covenant Balanced Nutrition with the Food Federation FEVIA and the Trade Federation Comeos to reduce the intake of calories in Belgian consumers by 5 percent by the end of 2017 compared to 2012. To what extent do the companies within FEVIA and Comeos sponsor research into the harmful influence of sugar? In other words, is the independence of research guaranteed in this respect? What does the covenant say about this independent investigation? Is it a covenant audience? Can we look at it or can we have it? It seems interesting to me to formulate the necessary health objectives in this area. Do you have a health objective in mind to reduce the number of heart diseases in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u80	Madam Minister, just as the tobacco industry is trying to minimise the harmful effects of smoking, the sugar lobby seems to point a finger at the excessive use of fats as a major culprit in heart disease. Now it appears that the sugar lobby has been financing and influencing scientific reports since the 1960s. JAMA Internal Medicine, as my colleague said, points to the danger of such practices and warns policy makers, scientists, trade journals and journalists. They should not lose sight of public health and the credibility of science when faced with investigations paid by companies with a possible interest in the results, the magazine states. There should be better ways to finance such studies. Madam Secretary, you have concluded a Covenant Balanced Food with FEVIA and with the Trade Federation Comeos with the aim of reducing calorie consumption among our population, which is a good thing. We also know that you are in favour of an evidence-based policy. Madam Minister, FEVIA and Comeos also have an interest in the results of the investigations. Have companies from these federations also funded or sponsored research? What reports and investigations do you base yourself on when drawing up the evidence-based policies? Have these investigations and reports been independently prepared, without sponsoring interested companies? Is there any research in your Covenant Balanced Nutrition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u81	Minister, I have also tabled a question on this subject. Here's the point I want to draw attention to and get answers or reflections from you. We can see that there was manipulation by the sugar sector. Seeing how acceptable or sustainable cholesterol levels are constantly decreasing, one can also wonder about the whole agri-food sector, the links that exist, often in terms of the funding of studies, and how to set thresholds and then guide or force certain dietary behaviours. How can we ensure that the same deviations are not taking place today in this area? Of course, we are faced with over-prescription drugs in both sectors. Our agri-food sector is not subject to a binding policy. It is an area where self-regulation reigns, with marketing, image work and, often, deviation of advertising messages to make it appear that there is less sugar and fat in the diet. In addition to my question about what we have to ensure that other sectors do not experience the same drifts, would these highlighted elements not argue for a re-evaluation of public health and food policies? They bring together all ministers and competent authorities. There was a time when we had a national plan for healthy food. Is this not a dynamic to be revived? Health and food studies should be conducted exclusively by public health institutions. We should have binding regulation instead of self-regulation. In the end, we see the failure of our health and nutrition policies. More recently, we have had to make observations of failure, given the diabetes rates, the eating habits that do not change, the number of cardiovascular accidents, etc. Does this not imply a need to change the policies and constraints applied to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u82	Mrs Dedry, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Gerkens, I can assure you of the scientific basis for the policy. You have also been able to review the updated nutritional recommendations of the Supreme Health Council, which were made public on 22 September. The Council recommends that up to 10% of the energy intake be obtained from added sugars. The Scientific Institute for Public Health, together with the FPS Public Health, conducted a food consumption survey. I have no doubt that this also shows that the average intake of added sugars is above a healthy threshold. I do not know whether they have tried to lobby the High Health Council, but if so, then the so-called sugar lobby has had no effect, because it is concluded that too much sugar is still being consumed. The gap between the ideal and the real diet of the Belgians has narrowed slightly, but there is still a gap. Indeed, there is still much room for improvement as regards the adaptation of the Belgian diet. We aim in the Convenant Balanced Nutrition, which the government together with the food industry and retail, FEVIA and Comeos, made and signed in June, to reduce the average energy intake by 5 percent between 2012 and the end of 2016. The commitments include the reduction of added fats, in particular trans fatty acids, and sugars or the reduction of portions. You will see that concrete steps are being taken for various products, including soft drinks, dairy products, such as yoghurt and food porridge, cereals, cereals, etc. Everyone thinks they are healthy, but there are also a lot of sugar containing pomelos, chocolate, biscuits, soy drinks and other vegetable drinks. The agreement was signed by the various economic operators. It makes them responsible for the commitments they have made. The FPS Health Services will ensure that the real impact on the products in our store shelves is independently controlled. Mrs Gerkens, we must fight globally against the so-called diseases of prosperity that are linked to an unbalanced diet. That is why I proposed to the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health that a joint action plan on food and health should also be prepared. Colleagues agreed in March 2016. The plan is currently being developed. But the distribution of competences is what it is. As you know, it is my colleagues from the federated entities who are competent to promote a balanced diet, encourage physical activity and raise public awareness. Nevertheless, we are also making efforts to communicate (health data, food labelling, etc.) and control. It is necessary to continue, at each level of power, according to his skills, to reduce the amount of fat and sugar in the food.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u83	Madam Minister, I have no doubt whatsoever of the good content of the covenant and of your good intentions. You yourself state that the verification of compliance with the covenant will be carried out independently. That is a positive point. However, my fellow Members and I have doubts as to whether the investigations are sufficiently independent. You also did not answer the question of whether the covenant is public and available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u84	I'll deliver it to the chairman of the committee. It's definitely an audience. There's been a press conference about it. We can provide you with the covenant, via the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u85	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm also interested in the covenant. You mentioned the recommendations. They do seem very positive to me. Nor do I doubt the independence of the Public Health Office. I note, Madam Minister, that you have not answered my questions as to whether companies in these federations have financed or sponsored research, and on what reports and investigations you have based yourself on in drawing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u86	I did say that, Mrs Jiroflée. Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u87	Have companies of these federations also funded or sponsored research?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u88	I don't know, but if there are, we really didn't base ourselves on that. The information we have came through the FOD, through the Scientific Institute of Public Health and through the High Health Council. That is what we have based on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u89	I'm sure it's a good idea, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u90	If these companies do their own studies, this also has to do with taste and sugar content. They can do that. But I will not base myself on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u91	Of course, these companies can do research for themselves. That's a bit weedy, but you say you've based yourself on one or the other organization. I wonder whether they have carried out these investigations themselves, or whether they have made use of data from surveys carried out by companies? That's what I'd like to know. I note that there is not really an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u92	If so, what's your point? Are you saying the numbers are down? The conclusion is that too much sugar and too many fats are being used. What would be the point of trying to influence these results? I really don't understand your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u93	My reasoning is clear, I think. I wonder whether or not there is any influence on the advice given. Of course, it has been argued that percentages should be reduced. The question is, how much? How serious is that? I was just asking if there was any influence there or not. I don't see what's weird about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u94	In absolute terms, it may be interesting to check the references that have been taken into account by the Institute of Public Health and the SPF to produce their analyses and to see on which authors they have based themselves. I take it you're going to pass on the content to us. However, I'm still so wary of self-regulation, because reducing the levels of sugar, fat and other additives always takes a lot of time. That is why I believe that prepared dishes must also be part of our main concerns, not just cereals or yogurt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u95	That's why we're also talking about servings in prepared dishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u96	Governments can be more policy-oriented. We were informed this morning that the next Interministerial Conference would take place in March. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u97	Yes, it will be held on March 27. The last one took place yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u98	Yes. We will therefore discuss the next time the one that failed yesterday, the one that did not take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u99	Yes, it did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u100	So that's the point that wasn't addressed? I therefore believe that questions will be asked on this subject. We will therefore come back to that at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u101	It was separated from the Interdepartmental Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u102	It's 5:57. Do we have time to address the attached electronic cigarette issues or do you have to leave at 6:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u103	As this is an important question, I would like to answer it again, but I will have to leave afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u104	I will then ask members to be specific in their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for taking a moment. I will be very brief, but since this is a combined question, I cannot turn it into a written question. It's about the electronic cigarette. He's on the verge of a huge advance in our country. More and more trendy shops, or shops that look all the way hip, focus exclusively on selling the electronic cigarette. They shoot like mushrooms out of the ground. Not only in shops, but also on TV and in the street scene, more and more people are walking around with the e-cigarette, both young and elderly. A good thing is that the e-cigarette encourages people to adjust their smoking behaviour and even stop smoking, but a less good thing is that e-cigarettes appear more frequently in places where smoking is clearly prohibited. This way I get reports of breaches in hospitality stores and museums to even aircraft. It is therefore clear that it is not always clear to the average citizen that the e-cigarette is also covered by the smoking ban. You have already made it clear to me that the e-cigarette is covered by the smoking ban, but I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you clarify your e-cigarette policy once again? Can you give me the figures from the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service regarding the e-cigarette? How many checks were carried out between 1 January and 1 October? How many infringements were detected? How many minutes were written? What are your plans to clarify your policy to the population? Do you have plans to reach specific target groups, including young people and the catering industry? What timing do you provide for to concreteise and implement your policy and to make it public to the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u106	Madam Secretary, I have a brief question on another aspect. In fact, we have often set up a tree here on tobacco policy and more specifically on the use and sale of the e-cigarette. I personally insist that these e-cigarettes should be sold in special outlets, coupled with a detachment policy. Anyway, we'll disagree on that. My question dates back to 1 September. It will therefore have been at that time that I have taken note of an American study which shows that young people who use the e-cigarette have a much greater chance of starting smoking. That study would even indicate that the probability could be up to six times greater. Last week, too, we heard opponents and opponents again in the press. So that's much more recent. Those in favour also point to a possible reverse effect. I myself remain quite convinced of the precautionary or precautionary principle in this matter. Madam Secretary, what do you think of the finding that the e-cigarette could also encourage smoking? Do you change your policy in this respect or do you stick to your opinion and the policy that the e-cigarette can be offered for free sale anywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u107	Madam President, I have tabled several questions on supplementary matters. From the beginning, I disagreed at all with your e-cigarette choices. I had time this summer to look again at the sixty pages of the very interesting report of the Supreme Council of Health. I was able to conclude that you did everything but follow the scientific experts in this field. The Supreme Council of Health strongly advocated that e-cigarettes should not be sold freely or easily and should not be accessible to the general public and especially to non-smokers. He pleaded for e-cigarette sales to be made at specialized outlets, with the support of trained staff, and for a ban on advertising and display. He also pleaded that there should be an educational mission for sellers who must know the role of vaping in tobacco control policy and who must therefore be able to inform consumers. The Higher Council of Health is also leading the production and marketing of e-cigarettes, which are now largely in the hands of tobacco multinationals. He absolutely did not want disposable e-cigarettes to be allowed. You have done everything but follow the advice of the Supreme Council of Health and all the points I have just mentioned. I gave you the details. I will not take it back to speed up our work. Second, several recommendations made by the Supreme Council of Health (SHC) are pending. For example, the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 stipulates that a new notification must be submitted for each substantial modification of the product, but you have absolutely not defined this. With regard to tobaccoovigilance, e-cigarette vigilance, you have nothing in place! The CSS recommends the creation at Belgian level of an effective and permanent supervisory body responsible for evaluating the notification files. The same thing: nothing has been put in place! Finally, the last recommendation of the CSS is that more in-depth studies be carried out on the role of e-cigarette. I do not know, at this point, whether you have decided anything on this point. So you did not follow the opinion of the experts in this matter. A fairly recent study, published in July in Pediatrics and conducted on 300 young people – a significant number – has clearly shown that for young people who have never smoked, it is then a gateway. Those who have tried electronic cigarettes are six times more likely to start smoking than those who have never vamped. When you compare the decisions you made with the CSS opinion and with this Pediatrics study, you see how far you have not followed the protection of non-consumers for public health decisions as a course of action. Finally, Madam President, the third question: the Council of State suspended on 8 April 2016 the execution of the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 on the manufacture and placing on the market of electronic cigarettes on the basis of two elements: the date of entry into force and the disproportionate amount of the fee for the placing on the market of electronic cigarettes or refill bottles. What about the suspension by the Council of State of the execution of this royal decree? Have you ever changed it? I cannot therefore, it will be my conclusion, urge you to take advantage of this suspension of the royal decree by the Council of State to thoroughly review your line with regard to electronic cigarettes, and to make it a real tool to help stop smoking and not a springboard to tobacco consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u108	Madam President, Mrs Hufkens, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Fonck, my services are closely following the development of the problem of electronic cigarettes. The situation you mention comes from one of the many other studies that have been carried out in recent years. Many studies have been carried out and many of them show contradictory results. In order to develop a coherent policy on the basis of scientific facts, I have asked the High Health Council for an opinion on e-cigarettes. That opinion, and you quoted a few things, Mrs Fonck, clearly states that the e-cigarette has a place in tobacco advertising policy. However, a number of restrictions are also recommended. For this reason, the policy I am pursuing on this subject is intended to protect non-smokers and, in particular, adolescents from starting the e-cigarette. It is therefore prohibited to smoke in closed public places, to advertise them and to sell them to young people under the age of 16. Finally, the Royal Decree regulating, inter alia, the composition and labelling of e-cigarettes and the turnover of the European directive in this field should be amended. This has also been adapted and will apply before the end of 2016. We do treat the e-cigarette and the ordinary cigarette equally. When publishing the first version, my services and I have actively communicated this theme in the media. All the provisions on e-cigarettes are also described in detail on the website of the FOD. Those rules, in particular concerning the composition, labelling and sales via the Internet, mainly concern producers. That is why my services also organised an information session in June for the benefit of the sector. A practical guide for producers and importers of e-cigarettes is also being developed, which will be sent to the sector after the new KB has been published. For use in public services, the control database of the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service does not yet distinguish between smoking tobacco products and smoking e-cigarettes. My services are working to make such a division possible in 2017. In addition, I have taken the decision to ban the distance selling of tobacco products and e-cigarettes, which includes, of course, internet sales. This makes it possible, in particular, to strengthen the prohibition on the sale of minors under 16 years of age. The federal strategy for an effective anti-smoking policy does not currently intend to restrict the sale of these products, nor to prohibit advertising at the point of sale level. Directive 2014/40 does not define the concept of substantial amendment. In order to clarify this issue, the Royal Order on the Manufacture and Commercialization of Tobacco Products was adopted. From the moment these products are sold in so-called traditional stores, I do not think it is justified to assign sellers a task of aid to stop tobacco consumption. This withdrawal assistance must be provided by qualified health professionals to help smokers, starting with tobacco scientists, general practitioners and pharmacists selling these products. With regard to the monitoring of legislation and the system of vigilance, I have hired 12 new monitors and a new lawyer to strengthen the teams of the Public Health FPS. As regards advertising, I have taken very restrictive measures, since the measures applied to e-cigarettes are the same as those applied to tobacco products. The definition of electronic cigarettes contained in the Royal Decree of 15 February is derived from Directive 2014/40. It is not possible for us to change it, under penalty. My services are currently focusing on the application of new measures resulting in particular from the transposition of this Directive 2014/40. Working with the other Member States of the European Union in the context of the joint action on tobacco will also make it possible to better know and understand the products marketed and consumed in our countries. This seems to me to be a fundamental basis of work before any further study is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u109	Thank you, Madam Minister, for clarifying once again that an e-cigarette is the same as for other tobacco products. You said that its implementation has come into the media as well as on the website of the FOD. I have also seen this appear in the media, but I fear that users of the e-cigarette are not aware that this is the case. It is therefore a good thing that a distinction is made in the controls of ordinary tobacco products and e-cigarettes from 2017. I think you'd be shocked by those numbers, seeing in my daily environment how it's handled separately. Perhaps some thought could be given to how users can be better informed where they can or cannot smoke cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u110	Madam Minister, I acknowledge that some very good preventive measures have been taken. However, you will not deny that the vapour stores, as they call themselves, have a very trendy image and thus attract young people. So I stand by my view that we would offer the e-cigarette much more limited in pharmacies, so that they could be a real help in reducing the smoking behaviour of adults and young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u111	Minister, this opinion 9265 of the Supreme Council of Health is extremely well done, extremely solid, widely argued, with a review of the complete literature and very clear policy recommendations on electronic cigarettes. And you took a diametrically different position. Yes, there's a place in the anti-smoking policy for electronic cigarettes, but that's not what you did. You didn't set up the e-cigarette to help smokers quit. On the contrary, you have chosen to support lobbies and you have fallen into the trap with the greatest risk, that is, you do not allow to avoid those who do not smoke to dive. This is indeed becoming a springboard for the tobaccoing of young or old. Personally, from the beginning, I plead and will continue to plead for the exclusive sale of e-cigarettes in pharmacies because, in my opinion, there is no better place to do so, considering that this is a medical device to help stop smoking. This would make it possible to have preferential VAT and thus accessibility and even reimbursements and, above all, to have the pharmacist's advice on tobacco cessation aid. Madam Minister, your order is weak. I conclude by taking this example. You're saying, "No Internet sale." On Google, in three seconds, you find dozens of Belgian websites that sell electronic cigarettes and all the essential products. A clicked beast is enough! Some put a hanger "forbidden to under 16" but the majority don't even put it. All of this to show you how much the political measures that have been taken in this area are a levelling down. It is not a tobacco cessation aid, and it is clearly a springboard for smoking. In terms of public health, it is a real disaster! Tomorrow we'll pay the price in every sense of the word. First of all, it will be people who will suffer the medical consequences, but it will also have an impact on the budget, and I regret that. I think you really need to change your strategy on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u112	Mrs. Fonck, I respect your opinion. I accept that you disagree with me on the manifesto. However, I cannot accept that you accuse me of contact with lobbyists. I haven't seen any lobbyists; you might. I'm not sensitive to any lobby work. It is and will continue to be a tool, along with Tabacological advice and along with advice from professionals to detoxification of tobacco. I think any tool can be used. To this end, a legal framework must be established. In fact, I find it offensive to the Chamber that you accuse me of being sensitive to lobbyists. That is really not the case. I'm not sensitive to any lobbyist. You may not know me, but many other people can testify to my advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u113	Members shall have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u114	Minister, everyone here has been flooded with e-cigarette lobbyists' e-mails and I cannot believe that this was not the case with your office. Their request was very clear and I find it in the way in which you, or rather did not, translate the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health. You have made other choices, which do not correspond to a public health strategy, which protects and uses e-cigarette to help stop smoking. On the contrary, it is a springboard for smoking. I am sorry to say that in view of the decisions that have been taken, contrary to the opinion of the CSS, I cannot reach any other conclusion than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u115	I just wanted to tell you that they didn't have my address.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-25-54-commissie-ic515x.u116	We shall return to this matter.
