ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u1	The first item on our agenda is closed. A brief minutes will be drawn up to prevent redundant questions from being asked. Since Mr Senesael was ill, he asked for his questions to be deferred (Nos. 9745, 9694, 9695, 9700, 9706); Mrs Capoen also (No. 8259). Mr Foret has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u2	Minister, in Belgium, sulfuric acid attacks have taken place. It is often women who are victims. These attacks not only destroy the body but also the future of these survivors. In the face of these unprecedented acts of violence, the authorities seem to be very helpless, but it is their duty to find solutions to try to minimize this phenomenon. The regulation of the acid used, which is now on the open market for everyone, is particularly at the heart of the victims' claims. Can you, minister, detail the number of such attacks that have been recorded in recent years? Do you have details of the volume of sulphuric acid sold annually in Belgium? Is the distribution of volume acquisition by professionals on the one hand, by individuals on the other? In 2013, your predecessor, Mr Wathelet, already questioned on the subject, referred to the launch of legal studies and market studies to identify the most effective measures in this field and to analyse the framework of existing European legislation. According to her, it was on the basis of the results of these studies that legislation would be possible in Belgium. Can you confirm that the above studies have been initiated? Did they succeed? Minister, can you tell us at what stage this is being considered today? It seems obvious that if a decision is taken, it will not concern Belgium alone and will have to be coordinated and established uniformly in Europe. Can you confirm that discussions on the subject are taking place at European level? Can you tell us about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we do not have precise information on the number of attacks, which I do not hesitate to call a lousy, like all attacks on physical and psychological integrity. Minister Jambon, my colleague in charge of the Interior, may have more specific information on this subject, since this information is necessarily collected through the persons who receive the complaints or who deal with such cases in the judicial organisation. For sure, since Mr Jambon, Minister of the Interior, is in charge of the police in this country, you will probably get precise figures from him. The volumes of sulphuric acid produced in Belgium are large, exceeding 2600 kilotonnes, most of which is used within companies. Only more or less 350 kilotonnes of sulphuric acid are placed on the market and only 2% of this tonnage is sold as such to consumers, i.e. less than 0.2% of consumers and professionals. These are mainly products intended for consumers and professionals such as excavators, battery acid and other minor-use products such as metal strippers, PH pool correctors or gardening products. It also refers to products intended solely for industrial cleaning professionals in the food sector or the chemical and air scrubbing industry. The studies that my predecessor told you about, namely market studies and legal studies, were finalized in 2014. A risk management analysis has been carried out by my administration on the basis of data collected at Belgian and European level. This analysis was presented to a group of European experts in early 2015 in the framework of REACH. The Member States and the Commission commented and discussed possible proposals for action. However, for the time being, no clear leads have been identified. Since the criminal use of sulphuric acid is not a normal use of the substance, it is difficult to regulate it at European level under REACH. The conclusions of the risk management study are therefore still under way. As sulphuric acid is also a precursor of explosives, it is currently being discussed in a group of European experts on explosives precursors. In this connection, I would refer you to my colleague from the government in charge of this matter, Mr Peeters. In any case, you should know that this is one of the issues we were discussing yesterday. In Belgium, during the spring of 2015, my firm, as well as the Health and Economy, Consumers, my administration and the sectors concerned, namely producers, users and distributors met three times to identify concrete Belgian measures that could emerge for this substance as part of a general public use. At present, discussions are still under way. I can tell you that it is also a question of "culture" between administrations. The economic affairs inspectors, on the occasion of their ad hoc and impromptu visit to one or the other distributor, in either store could verify the operationality of a regulation that we would have made. It is out of the question of taking action without control. That's the eternal problem. I spoke to Kris Peeters about my inspection department and a group of inspectors who would work together to optimize the work. However, on his side there are x inspectors, and on my side I only have one. This is all about the environment. We must try to get these inspection services to work together. Each jurisdiction says it is not competent: the Economic Inspectorate says it is not competent for explosives precursors, and the Environmental Inspectorate says the same thing. It is this specific point that interests you today, but it is not the only one. It is also a question of culture, I say very openly and calmly, for better control of the regulations that we are putting in place in order to fight effectively against these attacks, which are totally odious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u4	Thank you, Madam Minister. It is indeed important to measure the effectiveness of the regulations that we would make so that they are enforced. Thank you in any case for continuing to follow this file and for seeing how to provide an answer to those people who are traumatized. I've had the opportunity to meet one recently. Fortunately, they are not too numerous in Belgium but the various facts are there to attest that there are. It is important to minimize the risks. If you can work with your colleagues to pool government resources to enforce these kinds of regulations, it will be positive for the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u5	Question No 8985 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u6	Minister, the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil (BASP) brings together the food federations and nine Belgian companies, including a cosmetics company. It was established in 2014 and has set itself objectives recognised as the most ambitious (with those of the Alliance Française) by NGOs, including WWF and Greenpeace, although there is still a need to further improve the quality criteria and their monitoring. Since the end of 2015, these nine member companies of the Belgian Alliance have only imported oil certified according to the criteria of the Belgian Alliance. These alliances were created because the criteria for judging the sustainability of palm oil by the sustainable palm oil round table launched in 2004 were unsatisfactory in terms of implementation. The Belgian Alliance would like the Belgian authorities to join those of the Netherlands in putting this issue of sustainable palm oil on the Council of Europe's agenda during the Dutch Presidency by integrating concerns about the criteria in terms of production patterns, non-grabbing and non-confiscation of land - as this is one of the major concerns of this large-scale production -, traceability in the various stages of the process of processing these oils, chain and follow-up of intermediaries, fair remuneration of producers, and workers' rights. Minister, what assessment do you have of the criteria adopted by the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil? Will you please ask them to join the Dutch authorities in putting this item on the Council of Europe's agenda? What quality tags will you ask for? This is a very complicated subject because there is both traditional culture and intensive exploitation by some actors in some parts of the world. It is not always easy to monitor compliance with the criteria I mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u7	Mrs Gerkens, you are asking me about the criteria adopted by the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil. The criteria adopted by the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palmoil (BASP) are those of the RSPO round table which wishes to strengthen them in the near future. These criteria are in the right direction, but what the round table is asking for can only be seen in a step-by-step approach. Putting people around the table is not an end in itself but a milestone in moving towards the goal of developing a sustainable palm oil. A double effort to integrate and strengthen the criteria should therefore be made to ensure that the work of this round table becomes more credible. Future developments must be made transparent by integrating the various stakeholders. Examples of integration such as organic farming or fair trade can inspire members of the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil. In general, I think that we should also bear in mind that local oils can also have advantages, such as rapeseed, which produces not only oil but also protein meal that can replace South American soya meal used for livestock feeding. The round table and similar initiatives should not lead us to abandon the oils produced in Europe. You are asking me if I will relay their request to the Council of Europe. I will support the Alliance if I have a clear commitment from the Alliance to address the above issues. Of course, we must all speak with one voice, and we must attack all the forces of our country to speak in the same direction. As to what quality marks I intend to ask, in my view, three points need to be developed as a matter of priority. First, better recognition of local populations and involvement of local producers. Secondly, the inclusion of the Alliance and the Round Table in a more comprehensive framework, including the objectives of COP21, the Aichi Goals and the Convention on Biological Diversity Strategic Plan and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Finally, greater transparency and objectivation of the criteria, which will require greater involvement of all stakeholders. These beacons were exhibited by a representative of my firm at a seminar organized by the Alliance last December. I also asked my administration to strengthen collaborations with the Alliance to help improve the criteria developed by the round table and to support them. As you can see, I would like to work actively to improve the criteria, while supporting the positive approach of these companies. We meet with the Alliance on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u8	I find it difficult to understand how these alliances are organized, including the Belgian Alliance; it is my responsibility that the Alliance has set sustainability and quality criteria that are superior and better than those of the Round Table. The round table will apparently improve these criteria at the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Next, starting in 2016. In your answer, you say that the criteria of the Belgian Alliance and the Round Table are the same. However, I understood that the Belgian Alliance had done more and more extensive work and that the criteria adopted by the round table were, on the other hand, too weak in terms of quality and control. I am not a specialist in this matter, but I think that if that is the case, it is worth specifying what criteria we want, regardless of the Alliance or the round table. This decision would then form the basis of the work requested of the European Council in order to use the best criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u9	Yes, that's the purpose of the meeting. Belgium wanted to be more ambitious. Unless I was mistaken, this round table would validate these criteria, which we will obviously not discuss. However, even these are not enough. Hence the stakes of this meeting, in order to see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u10	It also seems to me important to preserve local production here and there, as well as access to land. There is no point in importing from intensive production to replace oils that match our plants and our land. This meeting will take place on Friday. I assume that this item will also be on the agenda of the Council of Europe on 28 March?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u11	It's not the 28th, it's the 30th.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u12	And will this issue be dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u13	I don't dare swear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic352x.u14	We will be able to follow up on how things are going.
