ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u1	Minister, very recently we were able to read in the press that an interned person who was interned in 2006 did not return after a penitentiary leave and committed new facts in 2013. According to the press, the court cannot say exactly when it had fled and under what circumstances. He was re-arrested and interned. During a penitentiary leave, he committed another rape. He was arrested and is still in custody, according to the press. Minister, is it correct, as the press reports, that the man was a fugitive the first time and that people do not know exactly when he was a fugitive? Is that what he's signed up for, national and international? What steps has the Justice Department taken to find him? Was FAST enabled, for example? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u2	Ms Van Cauter, both in 2012 and in May 2016, the interned person obtained some night-time permits because of the Commission for the Protection of Society, a court under the chairmanship of a magistrate, who had granted night-time permits in all independence to the person concerned. Of course, the prison services had to enforce those judgments. I have thoroughly repaired the internment law of 5 May 2014, together with you, with the amendment of 4 May 2016, the so-called potpourri 3 Act. The new law entered into force on 1 October 2016, and the following provisions of that law are important. From now on, a real court will have jurisdiction to take all decisions implementing the internment, namely the multidisciplinary chambers for the protection of society in the criminal courts. That means one judge and two instructors, including a clinical psychologist. That should give more professional guarantees. Moreover, the law in Article 27 now expressly states that an exit permit or leave cannot be granted until there are no counter-indications. Those contraindications relate to the risk that the interned person would evade the execution of the internment, the risk of committing criminal offences or the risk of harassing the victims. In Article 47, the law expressly provides that for persons who are interned for sexual offences, a mandatory reasoned opinion from a specialised service must be available before implementing procedures can be considered or decided upon, such as limited detention and trial exemptions. In addition to these legal improvements, I make every day an effort to place the interns in secure settings other than the penitentiary institutions, such as the FPC and forensic hospitals, where the possibilities of making psychiatric diagnoses of such persons are much greater. That is where these people also end up in a context that is aimed at therapy and thus avoiding recurrence. The operationalisation of the new internment law must also avoid such incidents, which are indeed very serious. Moreover, in my policy paper and in my state of affairs on recodification, I have made it clear that criminal law and the execution of penalties must also pay even more attention to the fight against sexual and violent crimes, including the follow-up, monitoring and supervision of such convicted offenders. In the meantime, I have already instructed the penitentiary administration to treat those convicted of rape with sentences of up to three years in the same way as sex offenders on minors. It means that they can only be released after a specialized advice and with guarantee of effective guidance and follow-up. In the case of convicted persons with sentences over 3 years of age, the criminal enforcement court, which already legally operates in the same way, is competent. I can confirm that when an interned person withdraws from a measure of exit or escapes, which is immediately notified to the Commission for the protection of society, so now to the Chamber for the protection of society and to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The prison will report that to the police immediately. In the present case, that was done; the person concerned was terminated at national level, but the Fast service was not employed. As far as FAST is concerned, allow me to refer to my answer to your specific question on this subject, which is also on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u3	Minister, I am, of course, aware of the efforts made not only to improve the legal framework but also to implement it as the most important instrument. Also in the field one is committed to looking for suitable places for interned people. However, there is a need for close monitoring of those involved when measures or initial permits are actually granted. You confirm that it will be reported immediately to the prosecution as soon as one withdraws, and that the person in question will be terminated. It is a pity that facts have had to be repeated. We are talking about a double repetition here, Minister. I therefore call for particular attention to be paid to the monitoring of the succession by the detainees of conditions and to the close monitoring of signals, not only as a result of the previous incident. Too often in the media we have to take note of such incidents, which should not actually take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u4	Minister, my question is specifically about the FAST team. Indeed, for about 16 years, our country has had a police team specializing in tracking down fugitives. There are quite a few of them, as you well know, Minister. Formerly escaped prisoners and fugitive convicts could only be arrested as a result of an accidental check-up. Many serious criminals who organized their fugitives thus remained out of the question and waited for the statute of limitations and then returned to society with impunity. Since 2000, the creation of FAST has been used to actively detect fugitives, both at home and abroad. Fast's way of working includes the action that was set up around the launch of the website most wanted criminals. FAST is effectively charged with active detection and capture of a number of categories of convicted persons, whether or not returning from prison leave, with regard to persons who do not comply with the conditions of their parole, fugitive interned persons, etc. I have a number of specific questions for you. Can you clarify on the basis of which the FAST team begins to track down a fugitive? Does a signal from a fugitive in this context automatically lead to a search by FAST? If this is not the case, do you think this is appropriate? Is there a difference in this respect depending on national, European or international signaling? Is there a difference according to the category of fugitive? What actions can FAST take and what resources do they have? Is there a difference depending on the category of fugitive and is there a need to change the regulatory framework in this respect? In other words, should there also be a criminal investigation to detect fugitives? Can you tell me by category of fugitive how many are still on the run and how many have been taken since the establishment of the FAST team, more specifically for the period 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u5	Ms. Van Cauter, the Fugitive Active Search Team of the federal police, simply FAST, begins to track down a fugitive convicted person when asked by the prosecutor to alert the fugitive both nationally and internationally for arrest. In order for the FAST to be able to identify this person internationally, a European arrest mandate is required. This is made up by the magistrate of the parish that is responsible for the execution of the fugitive. Fugitive convicts who are only national prisoners for outstanding prison sentences and for which the prosecutor has not issued a European arrest warrant are in principle not targets for the FAST. The local and federal police detectives are running those searches. The level of punishment plays a role in this. Many detection methods, including search, telephone tap, bank investigation and the special detection method of observation and infiltration, should only be used in the detection of crime. If a convicted person is a fugitive or if he has escaped from prison, there is no longer any judicial investigation, which means that the aforementioned investigative measures cannot be applied. Being a fugitive or escaping is not punishable unless other acts have been committed. The legislator tried to partially resolve this important gap in the law already in 2005 by providing for a regime limited to the particular detection method. The Constitutional Court raised some fundamental objections and went on to destroy them. I have started the preparatory work which should lead to a comprehensive and legally-binding regime for the application of detection methods in the context of criminal proceedings and thus the detection of convicted persons. A draft law will be submitted to Parliament in 2017. The FAST has only a limited database and can only submit the following figures. Currently, the FAST 1 608 is tracking down fugitives for whom it has received a European arrest warrant from the prosecutors. The FAST identifies 16 fugitive persons for whom it has received a European arrest mandate from the Belgian criminal courts because they have not complied with the conditions of their parole. The FAST identifies 95 internationally identified persons who would reside in Belgium and who are tracked down by another country. Since its creation, the FAST has captured or apprehended 3 397 fugitives. In 2015, 364 people were captured, in 2016 to date 308. As I have already announced, I am in favour of an even more vigorous follow-up to the execution of the sentence by the public prosecutor, in close consultation with the police, and I am in favour of increasing the capacity of the FAST. Meanwhile, the website Most Wanted was recently activated. That has already led to two arrests on a first list of 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed of the utmost importance that the sentence be followed. I'd like to hear you confirm that you're working on the possibilities of entering into a criminal execution investigation. That is very important, especially because there are a number of criminals among those fugitives who have been convicted of terrorist activities. We know from them that they are extremely dangerous and we need to be able to use all the means we can to bring them in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u7	Minister, I know that you have already answered a similar question in plenary, but my question has been tabled earlier and concerns something that you have not addressed. Two recent circulars, one from the Attorney General and the other from the Prosecutor of the King of Liège, are intended to regulate the use of coercion by police officers. These circulars are based on the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and issue guidelines for the use of physical coercion by a police officer. At the outset, I would like to make it clear that I find it legitimate in a rule of law that every police officer must answer in a transparent manner for his actions. As a mayor, I am disciplinaryly responsible and accountable to the citizens. I therefore find it normal that the regularity of an investigation should be guaranteed in the event of the use of coercion. However, it seems to me important to point out that some of the principles set out in the circular are perceived as excessive. The police have, moreover, demonstrated - with respect, I point out - on Place Saint-Lambert. The circular recommends, in order to avoid suspicions of collusion and to shorten the time limits, to persuade the policeman to waive his right to consult a lawyer within ten days. The law enforcement agencies consider this recommendation excessive. They are asked to give up certain rights under Salduz legislation in advance, since they are given the following choice: either the police give up the right to consult a lawyer or they are placed under arrest for hearing. So my questions are as follows. Does this circular not conflict with higher rules of law? Can such a waiver be imposed on police officers? Could we not be content with the current circular of the College of Attorneys General in an area which obviously requires a uniform approach within the national territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u8	Mr Demeyer, the first important point I would like to make is that the circular of the Prosecutor of the King of Liège on the use of coercion by police officers, dated 25 October 2016, has become obsolete following the new legislation on Salduz bis. Every police officer, who is alleged to be involved in a record of the use of coercion resulting in serious injuries, has the right to consult a lawyer before being heard. There is therefore no question that the police should waive their rights. Meetings at the level of the Senior Police Negotiating Committee – which I co-chair with the Minister of the Interior – addressed the issue. A draft COL of the College of Prosecutors General is under discussion, as was the case on 6 December in Brussels and the following day in Liège. Representatives of the college met with trade union organizations before listening to their demands and the fears of the police. This COL will be national and will have the effect of standardizing the procedures to be followed in the event of a shooting incident by the police. I would like to point out that the judiciary and I have a lot of consideration for the police and the work they do. In this case, as in all others, we are working together to find solutions that respect the law and the rights of both police officers and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will allow myself to ask an additional question, which I am not asking you to answer now. I would be very happy to have a written answer. More specifically, "in the case of the use of firearms that have resulted in serious injuries or the death of the suspect, it would be important," the police and the trade unions say, "to have a referent magistrate within each judicial district." The representative organizations would like this magistrate to be made aware of the practices taught and dispensed to police personnel according to the GPI 48. That is a further remark! I would like to thank you for taking this into account as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this Monday, 5 December, a hearing of the division of the Labour Court of Liège had to be postponed until 27 March 2017, due to the unexpected inability of a judge and the impossibility for the alternate judges and professionals, all overcrowded, to ensure this hearing. This is a regrettable situation. Currently in Liège, the judge's cadre is filled by almost 89%. A judge has been incapacitated since the end of September 2016 and in fact they are 23 out of a legal framework of 27, or 85 per cent of the framework. The situation is not going to improve. Following the retirement of two judges in early 2017, they will be at best 22 judges. Only one vacancy was published in the Belgian Monitor on 19 October 2016, despite the requests and justifications addressed to the competent authorities. They will be at best 85% of the legal framework in May 2017. The government has taken the decision to reduce the workforce to 90 per cent. Even this decision is met with difficulty. For months, the judges of the Labour Court of Liège and others have been alerting the political world and advancing objective data, aggravated by the workload they are experiencing. What the judges and those of the Labour Court of Liège in particular ask is that the executives be filled. The 2015 statistics published on the website of the College of Courts and Courts show that, in social litigation, the Labour Court of Liège receives more than 22% of the new cases at national level, whereas it has only 17% of the judges at this level. In the case of collective settlement of debts, the court takes over 20 per cent of the new cases and 29 per cent of the cases in progress, with only 17 per cent of the judges at the national level. Minister, what can we answer to the judges in Liège when they put forward these objective data? When will you be able to publish new vacant places for the courts of Liège and the labour courts in particular? Could you unlock short-term means to resolve these difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u11	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, the aim is indeed to disaggregate the vacant places and, therefore, the appointments, so that the executives everywhere are filled to a maximum of 90% in the various courts. The Staff Service "Magistrature" of the SPF Justice is in permanent consultation with the College of Courts and Courts for the determination of vacant places to be published. The Personnel Service prepares an overview of managers and a list of places to be published according to developments in the courts. He then submits it to the College, which, as usual, then consults the steering committees to verify the data. As far as the Labour Court in Liège is concerned, 25 judges are currently appointed, or 93% of the staff. But one magistrate is delegated to the Labour Court by decision of the first president and another is currently ill. These temporary absences cannot be offset by temporary appointments. The solution is more based on internal reorganization. The Personnel Department is aware of the departures announced for 2017. A vacant seat has already been published in October. The effect of these departures will be incorporated into the state of play established by the Personnel Service this December and will be discussed with the College in early January. The services of the College have already informed the president of the court that his information about the upcoming departures is repeated in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u12	Minister, thank you. I would like to make a further remark and could receive a written reply in the meantime. The judges of the Labour Court of Liège recall that the legal framework was established in the 1970s on the basis of the population. Since then, the social situation has changed. The Labour Court, with its powers and powers, sees a number of disputes explode in urban centres. I told you that there were 17% magistrates in Liège and that, according to the cases, there were between 20% and 29% new cases or cases to be dealt with. Do you think that in the near future you will be able to take these new realities into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to an article in the press last October, the number of prisoners of foreign nationality has fallen by almost half a thousand in the last ten months. The number of detainees increased from 5,304 in January to 4,823 in October, a decrease of 481 units. Among them, the number of illegal foreign detainees decreased from 3,270 in January to 2,917 in October. In September, 123 foreign detainees were returned to their countries. Your colleague, Mr Franken, sees this as the result of a fruitful collaboration with the Ministries of Justice and the Interior. On the basis of this information, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm these figures? How many prisoners of foreign nationality are incarcerated in our prisons? How many are without a residence permit? What is their percentage of the prison population? What are the international agreements allowing a detainee of foreign nationality imprisoned in Belgium to be returned to his or her country of origin in order to serve his or her sentence? Which countries are subject to these agreements? How many foreign prisoners are serving their sentences in their countries of origin? What are the reasons for incarceration? Did Belgium verify the conditions of detention in the host countries or did it have guarantees in that regard? Do international agreements allow Belgium to ensure these conditions of detention in practice? Finally, what is the annual cost of these transfers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u14	Mr Kir, the information on the first point of your question is as follows. Yesterday, as at 13 December 2016, 4,484 detainees of foreign nationalities were in prison; 2,887 foreigners were without a residence permit. The percentage of foreigners without a residence permit in the total prison population therefore amounts to 27.8 per cent. We cannot therefore confirm the figures for January and October provided in the question for the following reasons: on the one hand, if we take the figures of foreigners at the first of the month, we do not get the same results: 4,835 foreigners on 1 January 2016; 4,417 foreigners on 1 October 2016. On the other hand, the history of the residence situation in the database (...) is not available. Thus, of the 4,835 foreigners present on 1 January 2016, 1,400 had a different residence status on that date than the one now known to them or on their release. The number of persons without the right to stay on 1 January 2016 would therefore be between 2,412 residence situations without the right to stay which have not been changed since and 3,812. You'll get the numbers, Mr. Kir. It makes sense, but it's not obvious. There are various legislative frameworks for transferring foreign detainees to their country of origin, so that they can continue their sentences. In the case of transfer, a distinction should always be made between transfers with the inmate's consent and transfers without the inmate's consent. Transfers with the inmate's consent are possible under the Strasbourg Convention of 21 March 1983. Such transfers are also possible on the basis of bilateral agreements such as those with Hong Kong, Morocco, Thailand and the Dominican Republic. Finally, with the implementation of Framework Decision 2008/909/JHA, provision is made for a transfer regulation between Member States of the European Union, namely a law of 15 May 2012. The transfer without the consent of the detainee may be effected on the basis of the Additional Protocol of 18 December 1997 to the Transfer Agreement of 21 March 1983. The transfer no longer depends on the consent of the convicted person, but on his or her status as an illegal alien who may be removed from the territory. In a bilateral context, transfers without the detainee's consent are possible with Morocco and Albania. However, the agreement of the country of origin remains necessary. The Framework Decision regulates the transfer with consent but also without consent. I would like to keep at your disposal a list of countries with which a transfer is possible in accordance with the legal basis. Under the Convention of 21 March 1983, i.e. transfers with consent, two transfers took place in 2016 from Belgium to abroad, namely Turkey and Bulgaria. In the context of the additional protocol to the above-mentioned Convention, this is a single transfer abroad, in this case Bulgaria. Finally, for JHA Framework Decision 2008/909, the number of transfers abroad is 34 with consent (Netherlands: 22, Slovakia: 1, Romania: 2, Italy: 3, Lithuania: 1, Spain: 1 and France: 4) and 6 transfers without consent (Romania: 1, France: 1, Netherlands: 1 and Lithuania: 1). In transfer files, these are essentially drug-related events, followed not by theft. Other facts include criminal association, participation in a criminal organization, trafficking in human beings, prostitution, rape, murder, murder, forgery in writing and concealment. Under the 1983 Convention, the Additional Protocol and the bilateral conventions, both countries must consent to the transfer. There is no transfer obligation for the States concerned. In other words, there is a maximum margin of appreciation. The main reason for the two countries to decide on the transfer is the possibility of social reintegration. With the Framework Decision, there is a more or less uniform system for the 28 Member States of the European Union. For the first time, the transfer becomes more of an obligation in principle. Exceptions resulting in refusal are contained in the limiting grounds for refusal. The computer file does not determine the average cost of a transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u15	Yeah, I'm gonna take the trouble of analyzing the numbers. You can't answer me about the cost. Perhaps there is a budget for this type of operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u16	I'm not the one to question about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u17	It's Mr. Franken. I'll ask him the question. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 15407 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u19	Mr Minister, it has come back to us that, with regard to the declaration of nationality, the files of many European citizens, particularly the British, working in the European institutions would be the subject of negative opinions from the Prosecutor's Office. These decisions would, however, be reformed by the various Belgian courts on the basis of European law. In particular, the problem arises for European citizens who have a permanent stay in Belgium and who - before obtaining such a permanent stay - had a special identity card. For these categories of European citizens, prosecutors consider that they did not benefit from a legal stay on Belgian soil for the period directly preceding their application within the meaning of Article 7a, § 2, 2 of the Belgian Nationality Code and the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013. Such a definition of legal residence is more restrictive than the definition of legal residence contained in the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. Indeed, although the latter law does not define legal residence, it determines the so-called "illegal" stay in Article 1, 4° as "the presence in the territory of an alien who does not meet or no longer meets the conditions of access to the territory or residence". It should be noted, however, that the above-mentioned European citizens fulfil the conditions of access to the territory or residence in Belgium, by virtue of international provisions - in this case, the European Treaties - which is not excluded by law. Since the stay can therefore be classified as illegal, it can only subsequently be described as legal. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm the fact that certain categories of European nationals - including many European officials - are indeed registered in the population register, in accordance with Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 and enjoy legal residence under European Treaty law? In view of these elements, and in the light of European law, do you intend, by any means, to specify the definition of legal residence contained in the Belgian Nationality Code so that it incorporates the years of residence in Belgium of European citizens who have been holders of a special identity card issued on the basis of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities of 8 April 1965, approved by the Law of 13 May 1996? Finally, do you intend to take an initiative to clarify a situation that would be detrimental to many European citizens wishing to acquire our nationality? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u20	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, the acquisition of Belgian nationality by declaration of nationality is provided for in Article 12a of the Belgian Nationality Code and provides as a condition that applicants shall be granted a legal stay in Belgium, as defined by Article 7a of the Belgian Nationality Code. There are many situations of legal residence. However, only legal stays as defined in Article 7a of the Belgian Nationality Code may be taken into account in matters of nationality. In the context of the acquisition of Belgian nationality, the applicant must, at the time of the submission of the application, have been admitted or authorised to remain in the Kingdom indefinitely or to settle there under the Aliens Act. The proof of this unlimited stay is listed in Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 which was drafted in collaboration with the Office of Foreigners. It should be noted that the special identity card issued to European officials is not included in the list of residence permits exhaustively listed in Article 3. As a result, a European official holding a special identity card may not introduce a procedure for acquiring Belgian nationality unless there is a prior application for a registration certificate, i.e. an E card or a document attesting to the permanence of the stay, E+ card. In these cases, he will satisfy the condition of unlimited stay required at the time of submission of the application by Article 7a, & 2, 1st of the Belgian Nationality Code. In addition, the applicant must, for the period prior to his application and which is legally required under article 12 bis, prove that he has been admitted or authorized to stay in the Kingdom for more than three months or authorized to settle in the Kingdom in accordance with the Aliens Act or the regularization law. The methods of proof of this stay are set out in Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013, which also does not include the special identity card issued to European officials. Unlike the registration certificate (E card) or the document attesting to the permanence of the stay (E+ card), the latter cannot therefore be taken into account in the calculations of the prior stay. However, the fact that a stay on a special identity card does not fall within the definition of legal residence required in the context of a procedure for acquiring Belgian nationality does not mean that European officials do not benefit from a legal stay in Belgium. Finally, it should be noted that this issue is being examined in consultation with the other departments concerned, namely the Internal FPS, the Foreign Office and the Foreign Affairs FPS. I do not exclude the possibility of a relaxation of the conditions of residence. You will understand that I cannot give any certainty at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u21	Minister, I welcome the last part of your speech. I can only encourage you to go in that direction. Several thousand people are potentially affected by this situation, especially as they have a more than lasting anchor in Belgium. It is usually people who have practiced for the European institutions for sometimes decades. It remains that there are clearly differences in the interpretation of the current texts between the prosecutor's office and the judges on the merits, since on several occasions the judges on the merits have adopted a decision different from those of the prosecutor's office. There is clearly an interpretation in the head of the prosecutor's office that seems to be restrictive of the analyses and judgements of the substantive courts. I hope that we will soon have the opportunity, Minister, to be aware of the outcome of the work that you will be putting in place. I did not hear who would chair and coordinate this work. I imagine it's you, since you have justice in your powers, and therefore, the Nationality Code. I also hope that if I come back in a while with a new question, you can give me an update of the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u22	Minister, the Act of 5 February 2016 amending criminal law and criminal procedure and laying down various provisions in the field of justice, also known as the Pot-Pourri II Act, made particularly important amendments to the procedure before the Court of Assizes, with the presence of the magistrates during the jury's deliberations. Since the entry into force of the Act of 21 December 2009, which has adapted the procedure to the requirements of a fair trial, the decisions of the jury must be reasoned by the Court. I have a few specific questions to ask you, now that we have a bit of a step back. Minister, do you share the position that the Court's participation in the jury's deliberations on guilt is a passive presence, designed to allow professional magistrates to be aware of the reasons for the jury's decision? If so, how can we ensure that the participation of judges is limited to this passive role? Have any directives been issued to magistrates who have been sitting since the new procedure came into force? Despite the fact that the new procedure has only recently been applied, what lessons can already be drawn from the Court's participation in the deliberations on guilt? What are the returns in this regard? Are there any difficulties in implementation? The question echoes an article published in Sudpresse on the subject of the presence and action of magistrates in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u23	Mr President, the manner in which the Court participates in the deliberations on guilt is specified in articles 326 to 337 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. As you know, the participation of the professional judge in the deliberations on guilt was introduced by the pot-pourri II law because, following the reform of the procedure based on the law of 21 December 2009 induced by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Taxquet case, an artificial situation had arisen, the Court having to justify its judgment when it cannot attend the jury's deliberations. That is why professional judges can now attend the deliberations and thus have a better understanding of the positions taken by the jury to answer the question of guilt. This strictly defined procedure cannot be derogated from. Judges of the Court have an obligation not to intervene in the vote on guilt. After that, the College, namely the Court plus the twelve members of the jury, formulates the main reasons for the jury's decision. I assume that judges strictly respect the law and that their role in the voting process and decisions is effectively limited to the statutory requirement. I am not aware that guidelines on this new procedure have been communicated to the judges sitting on the bench. It is also premature to draw conclusions, even cautiously, on the application of the new procedure. The number of cases handled on its basis is too small to be able to learn from it. To date, I have not been informed of any difficulties in implementing the new regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. When there's a little further back, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u25	Mr Minister, the application for director is made in the canton where the person to be protected is staying at that time. That's taken very literally. I know of families who had to retake their application in two or even three cantons because the person to be protected had since been transferred from home to a hospital and then to a specialised institution or residential care centre. Especially in the case of multiple hospitalisations, the application may be de facto suspended, as the canton of the hospital peace court assumes that this stay is too temporary to complete the application until the director and, where appropriate, the confidant is summoned and appointed. The redeployment of the peace courts will also result in many directors arriving at a fusioned peace court, which will ensure a uniform procedure for the Registrys or at least what is desirable. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, do you have any idea how many times a request needs to be made? What are the instructions for the Registrys in those cases? Secondly, if the application is suspended temporarily or not, what will happen to the validity of the medical report? Does this have to be remade? Thirdly, when the peace courts are merged, will the same procedure be imposed on the Registrys, which will make it easier for the family administrator? Are you taking that into consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u26	Mrs Uyttersprot, my administration does not have any figures showing how often an application for the appointment of a director is stopped because the person to be protected changes his place of residence. At present there are no instructions to the Registrars. On the basis of Article 628, Paragraph 3 of the Code of the Court of Justice, the court of the place of stay shall have jurisdiction in respect of applications relating to extrajudicial protection and to measures of judicial protection relating to the person. The court of peace which has ordered a protection measure shall remain competent, unless it has decided to give up the case for the benefit of the peace court of the canton of the new principal residence, if the protected person leaves the canton to establish that principal residence in another canton permanently. The legislator has therefore established a system for the transfer of the file if the protected person for whom a protection measure was ordered has a new permanent principal residence. In order to avoid the closure of a file, it is appropriate that the first court of peace, usually that of the home situation, appoints a director and recommends the necessary protective measures. This court of peace shall also have jurisdiction at the time of the submission of the application. From the moment he has ordered a protection measure, he may decide to give the matter out of his hands to the peace court of the new main residence. Moreover, this possibility of handing out a file is an exception to the general rule on territorial jurisdiction. In accordance with Article 1241, first paragraph, of the Civil Code, the detailed medical certificate may not be more than 15 days old. The law does not provide for a possible extension of the medical certificate and is therefore no longer valid after 15 days. A new medical certificate will then be required. Finally, the fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 1241 of the Civil Code govern cases in which no medical certificate can be submitted in the event of urgency or absolute impossibility of doing so. In that case, the justice of the peace will appoint a physician. The period of validity of the medical report is not the cause of the problem, but rather the changing territorial competence criterion, the so-called 'conflit mobile'. The assessment of each case is, of course, one of the exclusive rights of the judiciary, but the reform of the peace courts will logically contribute to the harmonization of the various practices. During the second phase of the reform, the various peace courts will share the same Registry. In the third phase, the territorial competence of the cantons will be redesigned. This will necessarily lead to a more uniform way of working within the same peace court, but also between the different peace courts. I am also looking further at how to speed up treatment in these situations in the context of simplifying the legislation on governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u27	Minister, in the meantime, there is the new law of 17 March 2013. In practice, there appear to be still a number of gaps, which were raised in the Three Kings' Letter of 6 January 2016. We have also had a number of exchanges of views on this subject in the committee. The justice of the peace must, of course, continue to be a right of proximity. The law says the place of residence determines the territorially competent court of peace. In practice, therefore, it is not unusual to consider not the place of residence but the actual place of residence, especially when family members submit applications. That is also what the legislator wanted to emphasise. If I understood correctly during previous sessions, there will be an evaluation anyway. I believe that we should certainly take this with us, as the medical reports are not being extended. It cannot be the intention to increase the administrative burden in such cases, but rather to reduce the administrative burden. The merger of the peace courts may well be a match for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u28	Mr President, Minister, recently in the Flemish-Brabant Geetbets there was the dramatic incident of a man who had died thirteen years ago, and no one who knew about it. The man had a physical and intellectual disability, and he was placed under his sister's custody. That sister kept the death hidden from society throughout the period, which also continued the replacement income for the man concerned. Of course, we will not comment on this private dossier, which is still under investigation. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions about the fact that the death remained under the radar for over a decade. The legal provisions on custody are federally laid down under three conditions. First of all, there must be a watchful guardian. Secondly, there must be an annual report on the management of the property and the condition of the person under supervision. Thirdly, the peace court may at any time inform itself about the person under custody. My questions are as follows. What control mechanisms are in place to ensure that a person's death under custody can be detected in time? Is there at the time of deposit of the annual report on the management of goods and the condition of a person under supervision, nowhere at which the physical integrity of the person concerned can be verified in person? Does the court not cooperate with social and municipal services, and/or police to prevent people from disappearing under the radar for so long? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, first of all I would like to stress that your questions are directly linked to an individual dossier, on which I cannot and cannot give a ruling in view of the principle of the separation of powers. Consequently, I am also not aware of the actual situation and have no knowledge of the possible protection measures under which the man in question would have been placed. Nevertheless, I can tell you the following as regards your questions about the possibilities of supervision within custody. Every guardian shall be appointed by the peace court as a guardian, who shall supervise the guardian. If he or she finds that the guardian is not in a position to exercise his or her custody, he or she must inform the court of peace without delay. In turn, the guardian must cooperate with a view to enabling the overseer to carry out his duties. The guardian shall provide annually the custody accounts and a custody report to the peace judge, the guardian and the person placed under custody, over 15 years of age. The law does not provide for a mandatory check on the physical integrity of the person concerned in the annual deposit of the custody accounts and the custody report. This does not prevent, as you rightly point out, the court of peace at any time from taking any steps to ascertain the family, moral and material condition of the person placed under custody, as well as his living conditions. He may also ask the King's Attorney to obtain all useful information on all these points through the competent social services. Thus, the law, and in particular Article 412 of the Civil Code, already provides for a number of control mechanisms. I would like to point out that, since the entry into force of the new legislation on the protection of adult vulnerable persons on 1 September 2014, further consideration has been given to the physical integrity of the person to be protected. Moreover, all old protection status for adults, including custody of persons who have been declared legally incompetent or prolonged minors, will be converted into the new protection status by 1 September 2019 at the latest and evaluated by the Peace Court. Within the framework of the adoption of a judicial protection measure, the peacekeeper may, in accordance with Article 1244 of the Code of Justice, seek any useful information. He may appoint a physician to advise on the state of health of the person to be protected. The Justice of the Peace shall also seek useful information from the surroundings of that person, including, in particular, his relatives to the second degree, as well as the persons responsible for the daily care of the person to be protected, or the persons accompanying him. In addition, the court of peace may proceed to the place of residence of the person to be protected or to the place where he is located. In addition, the justice of the peace has the same possibilities of control as under the current law. In addition, the judicial protection measures are reviewed in accordance with Article 492/4, second paragraph of the Civil Code. The Justice of the Peace can also appoint a person of trust. Under the new regime, therefore, much more attention is paid to the well-being and involvement of the protected person, as well as to the involvement of the social network. As regards the rules governing the declaration of death, I can inform you that if a person who has died at home is not reported, there are no specific control measures. This kind of fraud is sanctioned by Article 233 of the Social Criminal Code, which penalises incorrect and incomplete statements on social benefits. In particular, Article 233 (1), second and third sentence, punishes any person who has failed or refused to make a compulsory declaration, or to provide the information he is obliged to provide, in order to wrongly obtain, retain or cause to be obtained a social benefit, and any person who has acquired a social benefit to which he has no or only partial right as a result of the failure or refusal to make a statement or of the provision of required information. However, I have no knowledge of the application of this criminal law provision in practice. As far as the control mechanisms against such social fraud are concerned, I would like to point out that the Social Security Office and the Employment Office are responsible for this matter. I would have liked to have read out a less official answer to such a distressing situation, Mrs Kitir, but it is no different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a poignant situation. As I said, this is not the place to assess that file; the investigation will be conclusive. But I think it is an important social fact that people who find themselves in a very vulnerable situation can stay under the radar for so long. That worries me. I understand from your reply that the new 2014 legislation provides better and new protection and that there are sufficient means through the Justice of the Peace to intervene. Perhaps it would be useful to look at this together with the peace judges, so that they are more attentive to that. I will not say that they are not, but perhaps one can draw attention to the need to use the resources already available in these cases as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u31	Mr. President, Minister, the Courthouse in Tournai was recently the victim of an attempted break-in robbery, particularly at the premises of the correctional transplants and exhibits on the night of Thursday, November 24. Several doors were fractured by the authors of the act. Minister, how is it that there is no alarm system to prevent this kind of intrusion? These are very important objects and parts which, you will agree, must be kept with the utmost care. What do we know today about this act? Were any people arrested? What can be seen as stolen items? Finally, now that your Masterplan III has been approved, what is the planned schedule? What about the courthouse in Tournai? As a reminder, it was planned to carry out work by the end of 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u32	Thank you, Mr. Mayor of Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u33	Mr President, Mr Tournai Mayor, thank you for your question. The SPF Justice defined security standards for courthouses in the general directive "Specific features of a security plan for courthouses" and transmitted them in September 2013 to the Régie des Bâtiments. This document sets out the standards for securing the palaces as well as the premises where exhibits are kept. It is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments to take over the measures described in this directive as part of the first installation work. In the case of the Tournai courthouse, the security file has been filed with the services of the Régie for several years. The latter undertook the security work a few months ago. The first phase was completed at the beginning of this month. The aim was to secure the area reserved for detainees. The security of the premises where the exhibits are stored was also the subject of a request for assistance from the Régie des Bâtiments. The procedure must follow its course. For all purposes, I would like to point out that Masterplan III is that of prisons. It does not, therefore, concern the courts. The masterplan of judicial reorganization is being developed and will be communicated in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u34	Minister, thank you. That said, it's a little awkward. Indeed, when I ask the Régie des Bâtiments, she sends me back to you. Today, you're repackaging me nicely with this one. So I'm going to turn to his side again. I don't have any problems playing ping-pong. For the masterplan, you told me at the end of 2015 that you would soon give me an answer about the courthouse in Tournai. I remind you that Ministers Reynders and De Clerck have come to lay the foundation stone of the new building. For the moment, we are standing in front of a wall of incomprehension. Indeed, every time we ask a question, we are told that we will soon have an answer. That kind of reminds me of Fernand Raynaud's sketch. I don't know if you know him. The question is: "How long does the barrel of the cannon take to cool?" And, at the end of the sketch, the answer is, "A while." I feel the same way about this case. But it's slowly starting to urgage. I assume you're aware that the Régie des Bâtiments has purchased land owned by National Defence to build a new courthouse. And when I ask the minister who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his powers what he intends to do on this ground, he answers that he does not know. Put yourself in my place, as a city manager in Tournai. We don't know, which is particularly embarrassing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u35	Minister, I have a question about the statements in the press by Mr Raes, Administrator-General of State Security, expressing his concern and concern about radicalisation in prisons. Mr Minister, can you explain why he has made these statements recently? Are there specific reasons for this? Meanwhile, the Plan Radicalism has been in existence for more than ten years. What has been done since the plan was drawn up with regard to the problem of prisons, since the problem is not new? Can you give me a list of the concrete initiatives and measures taken against radicalism developed by the leadership of the EPI? What measures were specifically taken to combat radicalisation during the long strike earlier this year? Could you please tell me how many cases of radicalisation have been identified in prisons over the past five years? In view of the statements made by Mr Raes, what role does the State's security play in this respect? Since when has action been taken on this matter? How many concrete initiatives have been taken over the past five years? How and by whom will the effectiveness of the initiatives be assessed? Thank you, Minister, for your answers to a whole bunch of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u36	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Raes' statement was framed in a broader interview following the commemoration of the attacks in Paris. It is logical that, as an administrator-general of State Security, he calls for particular attention to be paid to the problem of radicalisation in prisons. The Action Plan Approach Radicalisation in Prisons described ten action points. It would lead us too far to go into each of these points, but I do not want to deny you the main points. Firstly, as far as knowledge of the extent of the phenomena is concerned, radicalisation and proselitism in prisons is concerned, there is a clear procedure of information collection and exchange between the prison system and the intelligence services. The Prisons Working Group, whose State Security has the lead in the action plan to which you refer, has therefore been exchanging information on the phenomenon for a long time, even when the phenomenon was perhaps less present in prisons. The problem has only really escalated at the end of 2014, beginning 2015 and has therefore led to the formulation of a specific plan for radicalisation in prisons, as it took shape in March 2015. The instructions shall provide adequate observation and reporting tools to contribute to the assessment of risk behaviour. The information collected through these instruments is also shared with State security. The expertise for risk assessment has been brought within the organisation and, as a result, a significant number of staff have been trained. This was done through training, in particular the use of the risk assessment tool developed by the Netherlands Institute of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology. In addition, training was of course organized to place and interpret concepts such as radicalisation and extremism. Training is aimed at staff of the psychosocial service, monitoring assistants, board members and Islam consultants. Thanks to all this, the DG EPI is currently able to make relatively reliable assessments of the extent and manner in which radicalisation trends in prisons are manifesting, within which networks of persons inside and outside the establishments and of the risk of contagion. Secondly, as regards the internal classification of terroged prisoners, the settlement in paragraph 1 effectively leads to the placement of terroged prisoners in the three-part structure as determined, in particular in regular prisons, in satellite prisons and in deradics departments. Starting from the idea that radicalisation should be tackled as far as possible in the operation of all prisons, the placement policy is a step-drive system. In the first instance, the internees are followed within the regular prison settings. Secondly, however, when a more targeted approach is needed, the internees are sent to a satellite prison. There a specifically trained team follows the individuals more intensively, but they are then integrated as much as possible into the normal functioning of the prisons in question. Thirdly, if the threat is too real or if there are signs that co-detainees have been actively recruited within a radicalised network, the protagonists are transferred to the D-Rad:ex department. The D-Rad:ex department has already been completed in infrastructure and has been in use since April 2016. For the D-Rad:ex department in Hasselt there is a specific domestic regulation. This is currently being completed for the Ittre section. The domestic regulations implement Article 16 of the Basic Law 2005. Such domestic rules generally contain all the headings of the basic law and translate them into the way in which and through which procedures, they should be organized in local prison, in this case to the specific target group of radicalised interned persons. Thirdly, with regard to specific guidance programmes for those inmates, this is undoubtedly the most complex pillar, which is being given the most attention at present and in the immediate future. This concerns, on the one hand, the supervision of the detainees according to their detention path and, on the other hand, specific programmes for disengagement and deradicalisation. This is the subject of intensive cooperation between the prison services and those of the Communities, with which we share the powers. In this context, too, the rule is that maximum use should be made of the regular service provision to shape the detention period of the detainees, supplemented by specific guidance techniques, in which Islam consultants also have a share. As far as the latter is concerned, I can confirm that the vast majority of them are now employed and are undergoing specific training in dealing with those prisoners. Fourthly, a strike period is characterised by a very limited internal mobility of prisoners in prisons and thus does not promote the risk of radicalisation processes. The very limited contacts that the prisoners could have with persons from outside the prisons will have had a dampening effect. A period of strike does not therefore seem to me to pose any additional problems, which should be dealt with by specific additional measures in the context of the radicalisation problem. Fifthly, with regard to the number of findings of radicalisation within prisons, it is obviously difficult to determine how many processes of radicalisation have taken place in prisons. Approximately 300 reports were made from prison in 2015-2016. The CSCE currently assumes that there are a total of 450 prisoners with a very varying risk profile in the field of Islam radicalisation. It is difficult to quantify the share of radicalisation that has been radicalised during detention and that has not been radicalised before, because the radicalisation process is not an exact science. I also believe that the evaluation of the approach is premature. The ultimate question could be to what extent the phenomenon is decreasing, but there are too many factors involved in this that transcend the sphere of influence of Justice in general and the Prisons in particular to make relevant statements about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. If you will allow me, I will take with me the prepared text of your reply, because it was a bit quick to follow everything properly. Everyone is aware that we must continue to work on this, given the importance of the problem, but I am somewhat surprised that no additional measures have been taken or that you do not regard the strike as an additional risk factor in relation to the process of radicalisation. I will read your answer in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u38	Minister, the Law of 19 March 2010 on the promotion of the calculation of an objective maintenance contribution provides that if the debtor fails to fulfil any of the obligations imposed by the commitment, the creditor or creditor may authorise the enforcement of the judgment to receive the sum of money due. The creditor or creditor shall refer the matter to the court again. The court shall allow the authorisation if the creditor has for two months or not consecutively withdrawn from his obligation to pay maintenance contributions in the course of 12 months. This allows the creditor to ask the employer or any other body that still has to pay money to the debtor in order to receive the sum of money directly. Minister, how often does a person who has not received maintenance contributions for two months go to the court again to ask for permission, per Region? Can there not be, by analogy with what kind of DAVO exists, an indication in the judgment indicating the possibility of authorisation to the persons entitled under the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u39	Mrs Uyttersprot, my administration does not have any figures to indicate how often a person who has not received a maintenance contribution for two months under Article 203b of the Civil Code goes back to court to ask for permission to receive the sums due. These figures are not included in the publication of the activity statistics of the College of Courts and Courts. Moreover, the figures cannot be calculated on the basis of data from the application used at the Registrys of the family courts. The suggestion that an additional mention should be included in the judgment, which would point out to those who seek to obtain such an authorisation, is certainly worth a debate. Like you, I think it is important that citizens are well informed. However, the question arises as to whether this is the most efficient way. It should not be forgotten that the task of a judge is primarily to judge and settle disputes. It cannot be the intention of a judgment always to inform the parties of their rights and obligations, because that is primarily the task of legal assistance, including courts, lawyers, bailiffs and so on. It seems to me that it is more important to direct those concerned to legal assistance rather than to remind them of all possible implementing arrangements in the judicial decision. In that regard, the reference to the data of the Alimony Claims Office, specifying the order of that service in judgments establishing maintenance contributions for children as provided for in Article 1321, § 3 of the Civil Code, is also intended to lead the persons concerned to a form of legal assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u40	Minister, a while ago I asked you a written question about the figures on family abandonment or complaints about non-payment of maintenance contributions. That turned out to be an average of seven a day. It is true that there should be an effort to inform creditors of their resources. In my view, what applies to DAVO can also apply at least to wage delegation. We agree that direct subpoenas must be the ultimate remedy for payment. We can see that this is the case in practice. In this connection, you replied to me that at the moment there was only one withdrawal of the driving licence because of family abandonment. If I have understood your reply to the policy paper yesterday, you have received hate mails from creditors who wished to make their views known on some of the issues raised. To be honest, that's what I find the world upside down. People who are sentenced to pay a maintenance fee for their own children, but who do not pay, are going to piss themselves off or send hate mails about the way things are going. In my view, it is rather the maintenance beneficiaries who remain in the cold and the children are also the victims of this. That is what we will have to focus our arrows on. In it, the Committee for Objectivation of the Maintenance Contribution can find its task to establish an acceptable system for both the creditor and the creditor, in which the system of Maintenance Contributions is much more supported. For example, there will be no further need for complaints and criminal convictions would no longer be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this is a rather long and technical question. A divorce by mutual consent obliges couples to establish arrangements regarding their mutual rights and the family-law agreement, including the conversion arrangements with the children, maintenance fees and the like. These agreements shall be submitted to the Court of First Instance in a single document containing annexes. Article 1287 of the Civil Code merely provides that a literal extract of such legislation must be transferred to the competent mortgage office, in so far as it also relates to immovable property. The question of whether such a scheme can be drawn up on the basis of an EOT in respect of immovable property gives rise to different views. Part of the doctrine of law defends the possibility of drawing up the statutory act in private in such a scenario, but requires that, after the final divorce, an authentic instrument be drawn up with the notary, which must then be transferred to a mortgage office. This position is not followed, among other things, by the Liège court and the Antwerp appeal court, which consider that the instrument of regulation must necessarily be drawn up in authentic form. In their view, a private deed would not suffice, since, after the final divorce, one of the spouses could refuse to pass the notarial deed, which, in other words, would not have legal certainty in this case. There is a tendency in court to ratify the settlement act prior to divorce by mutual consent with the transfer of immovable property only if it has been drawn up in authentic form. There is one exception, especially in practice, where the spouses decide to keep the property undivided pending sale. Again, I have seen that the court does not want to accept this. Then there should be no authentic record if the sale takes place before the parties have to appear before the family court. As I said, I have also had to go back there with my petition or procedural document for lack of form. Do you agree that the current legislative text does not provide sufficient clarity on this issue and thus leaves room for both interpretations? Can a private deed containing all the arrangements relating to immovable property and endorsed by the family court not suffice as a valid document?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u42	Mr President, as Minister of Justice, I am not competent to implement laws. That power belongs to the courts and courts. Subject to this reservation, however, Mrs Uyttersprot, I can tell you the following. The provision to which you refer, Article 1287, last paragraph of the Civil Code, reads as follows: "A literal extract of the instrument proving the existence of the contracts must, in so far as it relates to immovable property, be transferred to the mortgage office of the jurisdiction in which the goods are situated by the means and within the time limits laid down in Article 2 of the mortgage law of 16 December 1851, as amended by the law of 10 October 1913. This Article does not explicitly determine a time at which the extract must be transferred, in the case of immovable property, but it must be concluded from reading together with the fourth paragraph of that Article with the other paragraphs that the inheritance must be effected before the divorce takes place. The first paragraph of the same Article provides that the spouses who have decided to proceed to divorce with mutual consent must settle their mutual rights in advance, i.e. prior to divorce. The second question you are asking must be answered in the light of Article 1287, fourth paragraph, of the Civil Code, which expressly provides that a literal extract of the instrument, in so far as it relates to immovable property, must necessarily be transferred to the mortgage office of the jurisdiction in which the property is situated. In the case of the presence of immovable property, therefore, a private deed does not appear to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer which shows that a private act is not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u44	Minister, the Constitutional Court has recently held that legal persons also have the right to second-line legal aid. However, the Judicial Code now provides that second-line legal aid is to be understood as "legal aid granted to a natural person in the form of a detailed legal opinion or legal aid in the course of a proceeding or assistance in the course of a trial". The Constitutional Court's assessment dealt with the question of whether, in the light of the size of the charges against a legal person, its personal ability to defend itself and the nature of the proceedings likely to affect it, the interests of justice may require that a legal person whose resources are insufficient be provided with free legal assistance. This assessment was made in particular in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right of the accused who cannot afford to pay a defence counsel to be assisted free of charge by a pro deo lawyer. According to the Constitutional Court, a criminally prosecuted legal person who does not have the means to pay a defender meets the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why, Minister, I would like to put the following questions to you. How do you intend to bring our law into line with this ruling of the Constitutional Court which admits the granting of legal aid to legal persons? Will you take a legislative initiative to amend the Judicial Code? How could legal aid be provided to legal persons? What could be the conditions for granting legal aid to legal persons? Has the impact of the provision of legal aid to legal persons already been estimated, in terms of the number of cases, but also in terms of the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u45	Mr President, I have taken note with interest of the ruling of 17 November 2016 on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court. It goes without saying that I intend to follow up as soon as possible. At this stage, I am considering all possible avenues to bring our law into line with this judgment, and particularly the path of a legislative initiative. As this analysis is still under way in my services, you will understand that it is premature to give an answer on the terms or conditions for granting legal aid to legal persons, as well as on the impact in terms of the number of cases or on the evolution of the legal aid budget. I'll have the pleasure of coming back later, at your best convenience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u46	Thank you, Minister. It will therefore be a matter that we will be dealing with in 2017 in the same committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-14-54-commissie-ic552x.u47	Question No 15477 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
