ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Question No 7973 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u2	Mr President, Minister, last November I asked you about the job-seekers. My question referred to a study by KUL which had studied the operation of such a system in other countries and concluded that it had only disadvantages. One of the well-known remarks was that jobseekers entering such a program, after two years, have the same probability of getting a job as those who did not. According to this study, therefore, there is no source of socio-professional reintegration with such a project. The second remark was based on the observation that legal uncertainty would make the obligation to work for the dangerous community as the boundary between such a service to society and forced labour would be thin. On that occasion, I also informed you of other problems that could arise from this project, such as the question about the kind of work that these job seekers would do. In November, you told me that you did not have time to analyze this study and that you were therefore unable to answer my question. I promised you that I would ask you again about this, which is now done. Minister, what is your position on this study? What means will be put in place to counter the legal uncertainty reported by KUL researchers? What are the different jobs that the long-term unemployed will be doing? Do you already have any concrete proposals for solutions to these problems? Are you in favour of the OECD approach already practiced by some countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u3	Mr President, Mr Chers Collègues, in the previous sitting we gave written answers to the questioners and I understand that Members always have the opportunity to put their question orally, but the answers have actually been given to a large extent. Mr Massin, you have already received the written answer to your question, but I would like to reply a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u4	Mr President, I have indeed received a written reply. What was clearly stated was that we could maintain an oral question, notwithstanding the written answer, which I did. I would like to keep my oral question because I also have elements to answer. I would like this to be included in full in the report. If the minister just reads his answer again, it's fine, I'll wait. After that, I will put items on the table and see what he will do with them. He may refer to his written answer, if he wishes, but normally he does not appear in the PV. Otherwise, it means that there is no response from the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u5	Mr. President, I still have a little problem. That provision had indeed been accepted. Once some have accepted the written question system, they must then be formally taken into account. If there are several interlocutors in joint questions and one of them comes back with the question, then we must allow the debate to be reopened more broadly. Once we have the answer, this must not prevent us from asking a question again, if we do not agree or if we want further information. If we reopen all the previous questions, we will spend a lot of time there. But in this case, it is necessary, by correction, to warn everyone in case of questions attached, so that everyone is in the same conditions. I think that would be more correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u6	In the case of questions attached, the persons concerned shall be notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u7	Mr President, Mr Massin, I have read this study. My conclusion is that there is no contradiction between its results and the idea of service to the community as set out in the government agreement. The proposed service to the community contained in the federal government's agreement takes into account the key findings of the researchers. First of all, it is pointed out that this service can give the persons concerned the false impression that they have work. This will reduce their efforts to find paid employment. Service to the community as reflected in the Government Agreement limits this risk in two ways: firstly, by limiting the application to the very long-term unemployed, discouraged in their search for employment and less intensive in their efforts; and, secondly, by limiting benefits in the context of service to the community to two half days per week. The risk of such a service to the community preventing them from taking training or seeking work is therefore negligible. Moreover, the government agreement lays down as an explicit condition that service to the community cannot interfere with the availability of the unemployed in the labour market. The Belgian track thus differs greatly from the Community work placement in the United Kingdom, which consists of the obligation to carry out 30 hours per week of voluntary work for six months. On the other hand, researchers point to the risk that service to the community will remove workers from regular paid work. Employers would be tempted to use this free labour force to serve the community. Much will depend on the nature of the activities offered to the long-term unemployed. It is therefore important to stress that, in line with the Belgian track, service to the community must be integrated into a path to employment. The nature of the activities carried out must therefore be based on the specific needs of the jobseeker. What additional skill or experience does it need to accelerate its integration into the regular labour market? The approach of the Belgian track differs from the English experience or the system in force in the Netherlands, where no account is taken of the needs of the jobseeker. In view of the above, I can say that what will be undertaken will not be like forced labour. For the practical implementation of the measure, we will also work closely with the Regions, which have a better view of the needs of job-seekers and the possible services to the community that are part of these needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u8	Minister, I do not entirely agree with you. I can understand that you are trying to relativize things, so that you are not misled against the wish and therefore against the government declaration. Apart from saying that it is not the same service as in Great Britain, the conclusion, however, is that, in the case of those who have studied a system of compulsory benefits of collective interest, nothing changes the likelihood of finding a job for these people. This is the main conclusion of the investigation. Statistically, this measure does not result in any results. And you're not giving me an answer. You're not telling me how you, you could lead to a result. The only thing you're saying is that it should be put on a job path, which is a matter of regional and non-federal jurisdiction. Therefore, you are mistaken. It is important to say that, because if you put a file like this on the table in Parliament tomorrow, in my opinion, you are going beyond your powers because it is a matter for the Regions. Secondly, there is a problem of legal uncertainty. The concept of "work for the community" is not regulated by any legal status. These people are going to work for public entities. This must be legally defined. Will this take the form of a contract? The study showed that this obligation would lead to legal uncertainty. It was on this subject that I wanted to get answers from you. Unfortunately, you didn't answer me. You said that some work would be adapted and would concern only "the very long-term unemployed, discouraged in their search for a job and whose steps are less intensive". The Competitiveness Pact has set up monitoring, reports to be drawn up, personalized accompaniments, whether in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. I do not understand what you mean by "long-term unemployed people whose efforts are less intensive". You know, like me, if they do, they're punished. I do not necessarily ask you to answer me today, but I will come back to ask you about these three aspects of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I can be brief. The rather detailed answer to this question was given to me earlier, for which I am grateful. All I have left is a final remark. This aid fund for unemployment benefits really needs to be improved. The Minister's reply contains a number of good proposals. I will continue to follow this up, because access to the Auxiliary Cash can really be much better. For those who are not members of a trade union, it is important that these services remain good. Minister, this must be followed up further, but I will not concern you. You don't have to give me the answer all over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u10	Mr President, let us be clear! The last time, the minister was unable to answer the questions because he was called in plenary. All responses were distributed. And you said we had to report if we wanted the postponement or the conversion into written questions. For some of my questions, I agreed that they should be turned into writing, while for others, I asked for a postponement given the importance of the theme. This is one of the questions I want to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u11	"Maak van flexi-jobs algemeen principle", said Gwendolyn Rutten of the Open Vld on 3 January 2016 on VTM. I am sure that my colleague Egbert Lachaert would not have been left behind and would have come with the same intensity to defend the principle to be put in place. That may become a general principle of ours. But let's start by extending it to other sectors. Mrs Rutten also spoke about extending the principle to the construction sector. The Open Vld thus offensively defends, supported by the statements of the MR and the N-VA, the extension of the flexi-jobs mechanism, applied so far to the Horeca, to the other sectors. In my question, I stress how much these flexi-jobs are, in fact, "Mc jobs", i.e. zero-hour contracts, with minimum wages lower than what we would have in the Horeca: 9.5 euros, while the minimum wage in the Horeca is 11.24 euros. But I am not going to dwell on that to get to my questions directly to the minister. Some say that it is necessary to wait to see the effects in the Horeca before considering generalizing the system, but the effects are obvious. This explains the raising of unanimous shields from the unions, whether red, green or even blue. It is so obvious that in committee on 22 October, CD&V MP Nahima Lanjri had declared her opposition to extending the measures to other sectors. The CD&V was therefore clear, Minister. It was almost a question of principles that was expressed and I could only agree with such a vehemence. You are aware of Mrs Lanjri's temperament and I repeat that she has expressed her opposition to extending the measures to other sectors, because it would really compromise social security. In the face of such vehemence from my colleague Nahima Lanjri, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, what is your position on the enlargement of flexi-jobs. Do you agree with your majority partners who are announcing that they want to expand the system to other sectors? In view of the rejection of trade union organisations, are you considering returning to this mechanism? I am curious to hear your answer, which may have evolved since last week. The political sequence is evolving, and that is the stakes of a commission like this. We can be spontaneous. Maybe we'll have a scoop today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u12	Mr President, I have already asked many questions, together with my colleague Mr Lachaert, about flexi-jobs. It's a bit of a saga that goes on. Most of my question relates to the fact that there was no agreement at the NTC on the exceptions to the annual holidays for flexi-jobs. This is the 1971 opinion. I do not recall the scheme, but I will simply say that the members of the CNT are obviously very clear in saying that there is a clear contradiction with European law, since it provides for four weeks of annual holidays with maintenance of wages for all employed workers in the European Union. During his holidays, however, the flexi-jobist does not receive any salary. This therefore undermines the principle of annual holidays. This aspect is therefore very concrete. Will you maintain your project which, on this aspect of things, is contrary to European law? Are you going to keep it as it is or are you going to review your text? I would also like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of de minimis, which concerns many actors on the ground. I have already asked you a number of questions on this subject, including your colleague Mrs De Block. I had pleaded for work to be done at the ONSS level. However, employers had inquired about the ONSS and, obviously, what they had been told was that the ONSS did not appear to be aware of its duty to calculate to facilitate the work of employers. Where are we today? Will ONSS carry out de minimis operations? This is something very heavy for employers and it seems important to me. If it has been done since then, so much the better, but if it is not, I would like to hear you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u13	Minister, this is an important topic. It has re-emerged when we talked about fiscal balance by 2018, including fiscal adjustment and the prospect of extending it to sectors other than the horeca sector, a measure pushed by certain majority parties. This had already been mentioned in committee during the debate on this legislation. At that time, we had already expressed serious doubts about the positive effect of these flexi-jobs on our economy and, above all, we had deplored the social decline that they represent for the workers. Indeed, we had opposed the measure, which was without any limit set either for employers or for workers and which therefore led to competition, which I consider unfair between the different types of working hours but also between the different employers. We referred to the need to save the horeca sector, because this measure was useful and we had expressed our doubts about it. Today, we see that many flexi-jobs have been created, but the impact has proved to be zero in terms of unemployment. No unemployed persons have been placed in the labour market. On the other hand, testimonies from the horeca sector appear increasingly in the press, sharing the experience of the field and expressing doubts as to the real advantage these flexi-jobs provide. Minister, you said you wanted an evaluation. When and how do you intend to do this after a few months of existence? What's the timing? How are you going to conduct this evaluation and what indicators are you going to take into account? Beyond the extension to other sectors, which sectors will be approached? Can you already give us any elements in relation to these? Are the construction sectors, small businesses that are mentioned? Can you provide us with further information on this subject? How do you intend to consult the social partners on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I would have kept my question very brief, but I have heard interesting statements before me. It is true that our party chairman has declared that she is in favour of extending the system. A party chairman cannot be accused of having a general view of the future, especially since the system has been a success. The system has been a success since its introduction in the catering industry, Mr Daerden, saving the catering industry was a noble objective that was pursued here. With the number of people registered here, ten thousand, and more than three thousand participating restaurants in four months' time, we can really speak of success. Unlike the previous speakers, I am not convinced that the system is a problem. It's not about hamburger jobs; it's not about mini-jobs. It's about people who have to have a four-fifths job before they can earn something in the catering industry with the system. So it's not about people doing it like a mini-job. It's a side-serve, because otherwise he or she can't get into that system. In itself, therefore, the system seems to be positive in terms of figures. It will also be positive in terms of social security income. There will be this contribution of 25%, whereas the catering sector was previously on an unofficial circuit. Let's be honest about that. Now it's being made official. However, the problem does not arise only in the hospitality sector. There are also other sectors with low return employment. These are very labour-intensive tasks in some sectors. It is not always obvious to pass that labour-intensive aspect on to the consumer at the normal cost of wages in our country. In addition to the catering industry, there are still sectors to be detected. Open Vld is a requesting party to investigate to which sectors the system can be extended to. That is why I have the following questions. What is your position, Minister? I understand that there will of course first be an evaluation of what has happened in the catering industry. When exactly will this evaluation take place? How exactly will it be organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be very brief. The extension of flexi-jobs to other sectors is not on the agenda. In addition, you may have learned that the trade unions announce in the press that they are going to file an application for annulment of this measure with the Constitutional Court. In this context, it does not seem reasonable to me to open the discussion on a possible extension of this measure to other sectors. In any case, this recently introduced measure will have to be assessed in substance, as Mr Lachaert has pointed out, on the basis of concrete figures, before such a debate can be conducted with knowledge of the matter. These figures will have to show the effects of the introduction of flexi-jobs on hiring in the horeca sector, as well as the social and fiscal consequences. Based on information received and reliable, it appears that the first useful figures will only be available after the end of the first quarter of 2016. We will take the time to analyse these figures in depth. However, I can inform you that in the first quarter of 2016, flexi-jobs were reported to the ONSS for 11,323 different workers. Those are figures from April 22, 2016. It is therefore 11 323 employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u16	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, I have no problem with general views being explained in detail. However, the key question is whether these views are positive or negative for our society. I understand that this view is not on the table today, which seems to me to be positive in a logic of withdrawing the measure itself. I have a problem with the following. We're heading for a levelling down. That's the problem! It's always the same reasoning. Is black work transformed into good work or is good work transformed into bad work? I am surprised that with your social soul – you are still the guarantor within the government – you are not a little more alerted. In the end, we don't know if these people could have gotten a better job. Your services must determine whether you are dismembering the right job or creating a new job. That's what we should study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u17	Minister, in the present circumstances, it is surely wise to take a break. That's the least we can say. On the other hand, you did not reply with regard to annual holidays, the fact that it is contradictory with European law or with regard to de minimis. Unfortunately, this is becoming the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u18	Mrs Fonck, with regard to de minimis, as you have pointed out, it is the competence of Mrs Maggie De Block. You're right. I have noted your question, but it is not obvious at all. As regards the annual holidays, a proposal for a solution will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u19	Minister, with regard to de minimis, I have asked Mrs De Block and I have her answer here in front of me. As for the annual holidays, I assume that you will return to the National Labour Council with regard to this alternative solution, which is not negligible. As I understood it, the aim was to apply it retroactively since December. But we were almost six months later. It still seems to me important to respect European law. I dare imagine that with a Commissioner from your party who has this competence, you will remain in line with European law in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, I am reassured to hear you say that it is not reasonable to see an extension before an evaluation and in the current context. In particular, this assessment should focus on the effects on hiring – given the current results, I think the diagnosis will be negative – as well as on social and tax revenues. When I hear that these two criteria are taken over, I already have an idea of the diagnosis and the result of the analysis. Therefore, Minister, my supplementary question will be as follows. As a result of this assessment, could there be an adjustment of the measure in the horeca sector, including the setting of limits or even the removal of such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u21	I hear Mr Daerden say that it would have a negative effect. I would like to point out what the Minister has just said. I think it's a good thing that there are 11 323 people in the system. What we need to evaluate are some other...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u22	That's not what he said. He said that there were 11,323 ONSS statements from people who benefited from flexi-jobs. This does not mean that they are people who were unemployed before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u23	It has nothing to do with unemployed people, but with people who already have a job. The things we need to evaluate are, firstly, the evolution of the revenue for the RSZ, and secondly, the question whether regular work disappears through that system. I personally do not think so, because it is about sectors that are very difficult to get into the regular circuit. Thirdly, the Minister has rightly referred to a procedure initiated by the trade unions. One of its arguments is that it only applies to the catering industry. How can this be objectively defined? That's not so obvious. It may well be that this debate is on our plate and that we will have to look at what other sectors are in a similar situation. Open Vld therefore remains in favour of proactive thinking and timely discussion of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u24	Minister, CTC 104 is supposed to help employers keep older people - 45 years and older - at work. This agreement concerns companies with more than 20 workers, but in practice this collective agreement set up to support employment has been less effective than the end-of-career credit-time measures. This conclusion was expressed in particular by researchers from UCL and KUL on the basis of case studies carried out in companies and this is far from ravishing the workers. Indeed, the government has reduced the possibilities of reducing the end of the career through measures to reduce working time, and this therefore reduces the range of opportunities that workers have favoured. You have given priority to CTC 104 and there is still room for improvement. Indeed, although the latter has made some progress, particularly in terms of work-hardness, much progress needs to be made in terms of work-related psychological difficulties. We're thinking burn out, psychosocial risks, etc. The various mutualities, regardless of their political, philosophical or religious convictions, have published statistics on the subject. Thinking about career development must go through work that can be done for older people. Today, the CTC is seen as an administrative constraint because people feel that the plans put in place will be useless. Will you strengthen the binding nature of CTC 104? You have read the opinions of the CVA-CSC. Will you take them into account to improve the collective agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Massin, in early March we evaluated five different studies on stress and burn out. The question for which I wanted a clear answer was whether there was a correlation between the characteristics of age, gender and sector, and an increased risk of stress and burn out. These were the results of studies from CERF, Eurofound and European work condition survey, a survey carried out at the request of the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale (ETCS) by the University of Liège, the University of Ghent and CITES - Clinique du stress - in 2009 and 2010. A recent study was also carried out by KUL and another by Securex. Among the results, it may be noted that it is not the factors of age or gender that increase the risk of burn out, but rather the occupational requirement and resources such as autonomy, social support of colleagues and opportunities for development. True, we have seen a slight increase in burn out cases in the 40+ category, but it is more important to focus on mapping professional requirements and resources. The main conclusion is that it is therefore possible to prevent burn outs. Together with the Directorate-General Humanisation du travail, we seek to continue to authenticate preventive measures. In the meantime, CTC 104 has been evaluated within the World Confederation of Labour (WLC). The CMT had a draft text but the Higher Employment Council (ESC) had yet to forward additions on the basis of its conclusions. He promised to do so for March 25. A new commission was scheduled for 8 April, but it has been postponed and a new date has not yet been announced. I would also like to point out that, since 2013, all companies with more than 20 workers are required to draw up an employment plan for those over 45 years of age annually or over a period of several years. This plan provides for measures to be taken by the company to maintain or strengthen the employment of workers aged 45 or over. In addition, the company must carry out an evaluation of the previous plan. A strengthened system of sanctions as requested does not seem appropriate for this specific instrument. However, the exchange of good practices is essential - a positive approach that allows companies to share information and advice. That is why we have developed the website work-to-measure.be. Our goal is to see changes on the ground rather than just on paper. An incentive policy is, in any case, the most appropriate. At the second feasible working round table held last November, the CSC also asked to consider the role that governments can play as an example of work that can be done. In addition, we have come into contact with the Ministers of Education so that we can look together at the feasibility of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u26	Minister, you have referred to the results of various studies. I wonder if we have the same studies. Indeed, you have referred to certain requirements, particularly professional ones, and to the support of colleagues at work. But if we take the studies of the KUL, of the UCL of Eurofound, there is no question of that. Indeed, Eurofound clearly takes age into account in its analyses and believes that the work of older people should be adapted as much as possible because of their health. It is necessary to limit physical risks, to adapt working hours. It is the political processes that need to be redefined so that the intensity of work is limited for the elderly. According to this survey, older workers are more exposed in terms of health to unage-appropriate working conditions. It would be interesting if you could reread the results of the investigation. This would allow you to realize the reality of the situation. The facts are clear. I understand the issues of the employment plan for those over the age of 45, etc. But it's a shame you didn't meet the CSC or rather its Flemish counterpart, the CVA. This would have allowed you to have the same basis in front of you and to enter into discussions with them. The situation would have been much clearer. In this case, collective labour agreement 104 is a mistake. You have to make it mandatory if you really want to achieve results. The incentive policy with the project 'work-to-measure' on belgique.be is pipeau. As long as there are no constraints in this area, this will not progress. Before meeting the CSC, consider the study. I would like to give you back the paragraphs of this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u27	I read the study well, Mr. Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u28	Mrs Fonck, you have the floor to put your question on psychosocial risks (No. 9038).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u29	Mr President, if my colleagues who have joint questions agree, I would like to turn my questions Nos 9038 and 9086 into written questions. I would also like to turn my other questions into written questions (Nos. 9547, 9897 and 9898).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u30	Mr. Hedebouw, do you agree? This is your question No 11026.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u31	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u32	And on the other question, as Mr Gilkinet is not here, I propose that we decide without him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u33	Mr President, Minister, while the construction sector recorded an increase in its activities of the order of 1.6% in 2015, the number of employed jobs lost in 2015 amounts to 5,000, according to figures reported by the Confederation of Construction on Thursday. At the same time, the number of declarations for activities carried out by foreign posted workers in the construction sector (the so-called Limosa) jumped in one year from 314,000 in 2014 to 394,000 in 2015. Since 2011, the estimated loss of paid employment has been 19,000. On the assumption that a posting mission averages 23 working days, posted foreign workers currently account for a volume of jobs of 41,000 full-time equivalents, compared to 16,000 in 2011, according to a Confederation calculation. "We get to a point of no return" warns the construction sector. Indeed, while the Office of the Plan expects an increase in employment in the construction sector of 14,000 units for the period 2016-2019, the construction sector forecasts a loss of 26,000 jobs, according to an "optimistic" scenario with unchanged policy. This 40 000 difference between the two scenarios would cost the Belgian Treasury 1.3 billion euros, says the Confederation of Construction. It is clear that the current logic of the European Union based on competition and the free market leads to a downward spiral on jobs, wages and working conditions for both Belgian and foreign workers. On the contrary, there is an urgent need to defend upward harmonisation of social gains. I am referring here to several claims by the sector: - equal pay for equal work; - social contributions must be calculated in accordance with the standards in force in the host country and paid to the social security fund; - the prime contractor will have to be fully responsible for social fraud in the organisation, at all levels. This subject is also relevant, since, today, in Charleroi, rather painful facts have occurred, which highlight the precariousness in this sector. My questions are as follows, minister. What do you intend to do to protect both jobs and to ensure proper working conditions in the construction sector? More broadly, what does the government intend to do to combat social dumping and to support trade union organisations in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u34	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, the answer is prepared in Dutch, if you do not mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u35	Perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u36	I also have a translation into French, so I can give you a mixed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u37	Answer in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u38	I know that you are perfectly bilingual, so an answer will be varied in Dutch and in French no problem. For the concrete measures to be taken by the government in the fight against social dumping, I refer to the 2016 Action Plan on the fight against social fraud and social dumping, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2016. As Minister of Work, I can tell you that a number of measures have already been taken, both operational and legislative. Recently, the registration of premises on the construction sites was imposed from EUR 500 000 and the transposition of the applicable directive to strengthen the means of inspection of the inspection services on the posting of personnel is at a final stage. For a number of years, the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws and the Social Inspectorate have set up specialised cells to combat fraud caused by the improper posting of workers in our country, indicated in another Member State of the European Economic Area, as well as Switzerland. Operational cooperation between the Departments for the Supervision of Social Laws and the Supervision of Welfare at the Work of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation is under way. At European level, on 2 February 2016, the European Parliament adopted a proposal for a resolution of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a platform to combat undeclared work at first reading. European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen's plans to tackle social dumping were endorsed by the European Commission on 8 March 2016. These are crucial measures to ensure the level playing field between Belgian and foreign companies. After an initial examination of the text, I can tell you that I generally support the proposed changes and introductions. In this context, the introduction, in Directive 96/71 on posting, of a principle that, in the case of posting for more than 24 months, a Member State in whose territory a worker is posted, is supposed to be the country in which that worker normally carries out his work, would move towards a wider application of the conditions of employment of the same host State. I think that is a step forward. Moreover, in particular with regard to the introduction into Directive 96/71 of the broader concept of the remuneration of the host State, rather than the excessively restrictive concept of minimum wage currently used in the abovementioned directive, I am also pleased to note that such an extension, as envisaged by the European Commission's proposal, is in line with the recent evolution of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on applicable pay conditions in the case of posting of workers. However, we must note that this proposal does not go far enough. An important problem that has not yet been addressed is the phenomenon of the bogus self-employed. Self-employed persons pay social security contributions in their home country. If this is not done correctly, they will be able to work here at lower prices. They must prove that they pay social contributions using the so-called A1 form. Experience has shown that such an A1 form can sometimes be easily obtained and that it is difficult to verify whether the social contributions are actually paid. It is also important to establish whether the company in question has a substantial activity in the home country and is not just a cover for activities elsewhere. It is therefore necessary for the inspection services of the country of origin and of the country in which they work to be able to exchange information so that this form of social dumping can be excluded and further addressed with respect for the free movement of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u39	Minister, I would like to hear you quote Marianne Thyssen, a Commissioner who once said that the harmonisation of working conditions must be achieved. However, the government immediately had less enthusiasm, perhaps not with you, but with your fellow Members. They wondered whether this could be done in the Europe of competition. You'll be speaking here in 24 months. That's a long time. In 23 months one can already find himself in a posting logic. So that's not gonna be enough. With regard to second inspections, you also know that too little is happening. Minister, if we can't break that, I really think that those hundreds of jobs are going to disappear in the sector and that the spiral will go further down. And in such an important sector as construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u40	Minister, with the tightening of unemployment conditions for more than 20 years, in order to still be entitled to unemployment benefits, unemployed workers must actively seek work and respond to job offers. In the first months of unemployment, an unemployed worker may refuse an offer if the job offered does not correspond to his training. But after some time, under penalty of losing his entitlement to benefits, he will no longer be able to use this argument or refuse an offer of employment, unless he is more than 60 kilometres from his home and has to spend more than four hours on his way. This distance, which was previously 25 kilometres, was extended to 60 kilometres under the Di Rupo government. The N-VA and the Open Vld have announced their willingness to expand this provision and to further expand this notion of suitable employment. It is a step further in the detricting of the rights to social protection that has been under way for twenty years. The N-VA has even come back with the idea of limiting unemployment benefits over time, so as to spread poverty in our country. However, studies have already shown that hardening the unemployment hunt has no impact on job creation. It is not because jobs are being sought that jobs are being created. From an economic point of view, Belgium would have already created hundreds of thousands of jobs, by seeking! You say "who's looking" but when you don't have it, you don't find it! As of January 2016, 570,952 unemployed jobseekers were registered in Belgium for 55,875 registered job vacancies at Actiris, VDAB and Forem (not counting that there may be duplicates). This means ten unemployed for a job available according to official gross figures. The International Labour Organization defines decent work as follows: "The concept of decent work summarizes the aspirations of every worker: the opportunity to engage in productive and adequately remunerated work, with safe working conditions and social protection for his or her family. Decent work gives individuals the opportunity to flourish and integrate into society." It is therefore a job for which the worker has been trained, in conditions of correct remuneration and which is not located tens of kilometres from his home. Minister, will you oppose this request to broaden the notion of suitable employment? How do you position yourself against this claim to limit unemployment benefits over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u41	My colleague, the latest changes to the notion of suitable employment are indeed from the Di Rupo government. The current government agreement does not provide for a comprehensive revision of the concept of adequate employment. Only two possible adaptations are mentioned. The first is to take better account of the skills of job seekers. To determine whether a job is suitable, the job seeker's degree is currently considered primarily. In a knowledge society, a diploma gradually loses its value when the holder does not do what is necessary to update and deepen his knowledge. On the other hand, many additional skills are acquired during periods of work and are not always recorded in a way that makes it possible to direct a job seeker to vacant positions. It therefore seems to me appropriate to place more value on the experience and skills acquired during the career in order to determine which jobs are suitable for a job seeker. The second possible adaptation aims to encourage mobility. According to the text of the government agreement, this second adaptation would only take place after an evaluation. This will therefore not happen in the near future. But I find it difficult to follow your reasoning that a job located "tens of miles away from home" would be inappropriate: every day hundreds of thousands of workers commute over tens of kilometres to their jobs, without having the feeling that their job is an indecent job. I therefore stress that, with regard to the possible adaptation of the concept of suitable employment, consultation will take place with the Regions: it is the placement services of their public employment services that must apply the appropriate employment criteria. As regards the limitation of unemployment benefits over time, my answer will be very short: this point is not included in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that this revision is not in the government agreement, but I note that one of your majority partners keeps communicating on the subject so that they can move the lines. So I hope you'll hold on! You refer to proper employment and kilometres to travel. The issue is accessibility. Someone who decides to become a commuter makes a family choice but here it is a condition for maintaining the allowances. Doing 80 kilometers on the Liège-Brussels line is not the same as going 60 kilometers from Tongres to Campine! This will become a condition for the maintenance of allowances. Less qualified people who do not wish to travel this distance because it is not compatible with their choices of life will lose their allowances. It is a matter of choice or obligation, it is the substance of the case. A job may become "unsuitable" from the moment there are two to three hours of transportation per day. It's not an easy family choice. I know you're sensitive to this notion of family. You're not going to push the mother to do two or three hours of transportation a day to get to work. I know you, I know that's not what you meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u43	Questions Nos 9342 and 9382 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Hedebouw and Massin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u44	Mr Minister, we are just a few weeks away from these famous social elections that are so close to my heart: hundreds of candidates across the country who express their active democracy on the ground! Accent Jobs has promised gifts to its employees if no one can run for office in the social elections. In front of VTM's camera, one of its officials praised the idea of investing the money to organize these elections in the purchase of gsms and the granting of holiday days, if they did not take place. Accent Jobs states that all legal procedures are respected. However, by exerting pressure on workers, by misuse of the right to offer extra-legal advantages to prevent social elections from taking place, the company violates the very principles of social law. It is clear that it is a question of hindering workers' rights at the union level. Since I tabled the question, no list has been introduced. The situation is still a little more dramatic. What do you think of this precedent? What is the government's response? What is planned as an investigation into the past practices of this company?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must assure you that I agree that the practices of the company concerned, which I condemn, are likely to call for reservations. It is difficult to claim that such actions can be conducive to an effective social dialogue. That is why I have asked the Directorate-General for Social Law Control of the SPF ETCS to carry out a check on the company concerned. On that occasion, the inspector drew up a report of the hearing. No formal infringement could be found since the company properly started the procedure for social elections It can also be noted that the right to information and consultation is a personal right of each worker. This right is binding. The employer has no right to limit it. For his part, the worker is not able to give up. It is, on the other hand, permissible for the individual worker not to exercise this right actively, for example by refusing to apply for the establishment of a participation body. It can be found in this case that no worker has previously engaged in one direction or the other. More specifically in relation to the establishment of participation bodies in order to give effect to this right to information and consultation, European and Belgian legislation stipulates that the employer is obliged to set up a participation body and therefore to organise a procedure for the election of that body if it meets the conditions of application laid down. This legislation is of public policy. An employer who meets the conditions of application cannot decide on its own initiative not to apply it. Under article 190 of the Social Penal Code, the non-institution of a consultative body is punishable. An audit showed that the undertaking concerned had initiated the election procedure and had correctly completed all the required steps, including the notice of complete cessation of the procedure, since no list of candidates had been submitted. From a legal point of view, it can be concluded that to date, in relation to the social elections, there has been no violation of social legislation in the field of labour law. If, however, the employer had put pressure on its workers so that they would not be candidates, I would consider that it did not respect the spirit of the law. However, it is very difficult to demonstrate that this is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u46	Minister, I wonder what the inspector needed as evidence! Come tell VTM we're swinging gsms, if that's not proof.... 600,000 people have seen and heard these statements. This clearly shows the loopholes in the legislation. One can very well give the opportunity to file a list, tell everything and anything informally and not be prosecuted. This is a real problem... All the more so since we are facing a company where no list has finally been introduced. Such a cause-and-effect relationship is alarming. There are lists and candidates in many interim companies, and just in this one there are none. I really don't know what the evidence would be. We agree that what is happening is deplorable. We'd have to think about an initiative so it won't happen again. I remain a little on my hunger with the minister's answer, which confines itself to whether, in practice, there is a prohibition to table a list. Of course not! But have there been any pressure on workers? Of course I do! It was the whole of Flanders that witnessed these manoeuvres.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart converted 9869 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u48	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, more than 270,000 workers decided to lift their feet, whether through a time loan, a career break or parental leave. Each of these measures saw its number of beneficiaries increase last year. For example, 143,387 workers benefited from time credit. I think you know the exact numbers. I just wanted to take this up with you. What is the profile of workers receiving time credit? What about those who interrupted their careers? What is the cost to the State? What is the expected trend for 2016? What is the reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u49	Dear colleague, in 2015 there was an increase of 6.5% in the number of workers who received time credit benefits. This increase mainly concerns reductions of one-fifth of the time. This increase is the result of an anticipated reform effect setting stricter access conditions for time credit, including for end-of-care schemes. Thus, there was an influx of applications in the last months of 2014, but also in the first months of 2015 due to the transitional arrangements. In 2015, the number of time credit entries with interruption allowances decreased significantly, given the restrictions that came into effect on January 1, 2015. It was 25,045 compared to 43,210 in 2014, a decrease of 41.8%. This also represents a 31.4 per cent decrease from the number of entries in 2011, the year before the major reform in 2012. Based on these figures, we find that a majority of the beneficiaries of time credit, career interruption and thematic leave come from Flanders: 72% are female, 67% are 50 years of age or older (52.6%). In 64% of cases, this is a reduction in working time of one fifth, in 27% of cases, a reduction of half. Total expenditure for the various schemes amounted to EUR 847.4 million in 2015, i.e. EUR 444.62 million for time credit, EUR 181 million for career interruption and EUR 221.72 million for thematic leave. The ONEM estimate for 2016 is $825.28 million. This decrease is expected in the time-credit system. Expenditures for career interruption and thematic leave are expected to increase from 2015. The ONEM confirms to me that the 2015 reform will continue to have a significant impact in 2016. The estimate included in the 2016 control budget takes into account the macroeconomic assumptions of the Economic Budget of 11 February 2016 of the Office of the Plan, an indexation in August of the allocations and a technical correction for arrears following the change from acquired rights to recognised rights. This estimate also takes into account the measures included in the notifications of the Council of Ministers of 28 August 2015 and 11 October 2015. In view of these figures, I am not considering any changes. With regard to the point made by the Union neutral for the self-employed, according to which unmotivated time credit is intended to finance world tours or other abuses, I would like to make it clear that time credit without reason no longer gives rise to any entitlement to an allowance. Therefore, I do not see why this measure should be removed. I would like to point out that, as part of the structural reforms of the labour market, the government has just decided that the entitlement to a time loan with cause would be extended by three months and one month as part of the palliative care leave. However, these measures will have to be carried out in a neutral budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u50	Minister, I have no comment to make. Thank you for the completeness of your answer. I will also take a copy of it, because a lot of figures have been quoted. In addition, this response is interesting from the point of view of the evolution of time credit, the budgetary impact and the new measure in relation to palliative care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u51	Deputy Prime Minister, the conclusion of a study to be published next June in the Economic Review of the National Bank of Belgium by Marcia De Wachter, Vice-President of the Higher Employment Council, drew my attention. Indeed, the report essentially explains that a good professional integration of asylum seekers will have a positive impact on our economy. Thus, this report is in line with the KUL and ULB researchers who conducted research on integration into the refugee labour market entitled "The long and winding road to employment" and whose results, published in 2014, seriously contradict the many common places on refugees wanting to live together. On 24 September, the federal government decided, on your initiative, that asylum seekers, four months after their arrival and registration in Belgium, will already be able to enter the labour market. Do you intend to do more for their job placement? Is consultation with federated entities and local authorities carried out within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u52	Mr Kir, in the second half of 2015, 711 C work permits were issued in Flanders to refugees; in Wallonia, 763; and in the German-speaking Community, 24. For the Brussels-Capital Region, we only have an overall figure of 333 C work permits for refugees for the whole year 2015. I share your view that, as stressed by the National Bank, a good integration of refugees into our labour market represents economic added value. We decided to allow access to work after four months instead of six. At the federal level, we cannot do more. The integration and accompaniment of workers falls within the competence of the Regions and the Communities. However, I know that the necessary steps are being taken at these levels, for example to provide additional language training. In Brussels, they also invest in the capacity of reception centres. I am always ready to consult with the federated entities in order to help them in one way or another. However, in the logic of the sixth reform of the State, the initiative belongs to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u53	Questions Nos. 10113, 10310 and 10311 by Mr. Hedebouw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u54	Mr President, Minister, in the context of budgetary control, the N-VA once again calls for additional sanctions to be imposed on long-term sick people in order to save social security. "Then I will remind them of the Dutch example," you responded in the press. In the Netherlands, the main focus is on responding to the employer. For example, companies must continue to pay full wages to long-term sick workers for at least two years. In Belgium that is one month and after that one falls back on a health insurance. The government agreement agreed to extend that deadline to two months, but under pressure from employers' organisations, this measure has not been implemented so far. This also indicates that a certain measure of strength can produce certain results. I would also like to be inspired by this, not for employers, but for employees. That's interesting for the last one. In the Netherlands, companies must also accompany and assist the sick workers in their reintegration into the company. This approach is not only effective, but also extremely fair. The main causes of common long-term diseases, such as chronic back complaints and burn-out, are related to the work done by the workers. In our view, it is only natural that the employer should contribute to the long-term sick. Can you clarify your position on this matter? What kind of response do you have in mind with regard to employers? How do you feel about the agreement in the government agreement to extend the guaranteed wage to two months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u55	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, the KB's proposals for the reintegration of disabled and disabled workers, which I have developed in cooperation with Minister De Block, are being adapted to the agreements of the social partners in the Group of Ten. The drafts shall be submitted to the National Labour Council for entry into force on 1 June 2016. It is my firm belief that the best guarantee of successful reintegration lies precisely in the automatic start-up of a reintegration path for disabled people and in the removal of existing barriers within the labour law framework. In the government it was agreed not to retain the proposal of the second month guaranteed wage. The reintroduction of the Carenz Day is not foreseen in the decision on budgetary control of March 2016. However, in the framework of the 2016 budgetary control measures, measures were taken to address both the employer and the employee in the context of the incapacity for work. This regulation will not apply to severely ill and chronically ill. A proposal will be drawn up at the level of counseling and treating physicians. With a focus on the sensitising employer, during a specified period in the first year of incapacity for work, a part of the costs of the benefits will be asked to be paid to the beneficiaries. In addition, positive incentives will be provided. The modalities of both measures are further developed. Small businesses, whose size is still to be defined, will be excluded from the scope. For the workers there will be a targeted re-evaluation of the medical condition. In addition, the disabled will have to fill out a questionnaire in the second and sixth months respectively and be invited to a mandatory interview, as in Norway. In this way, we will gain a quicker insight into the health of the entitled person and his expectations of reintegration. In addition, the Christmas agreement of December 2015 agreed to evaluate the reintegration pathways. This evaluation will focus on the practical development of the system and the results. In the event of insufficient cooperation, it will be examined whether possible graduation sanctions can be developed. A proposal will be made to the social partners in June 2016 with a view to tripartite consultations leading to a government decision by July 2016 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u56	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. I hope that the purely budgetary arguments will not be decisive in the policy of this difficult dossier. I believe that many people are really reluctant to be ill for a long time and that figures alone should not guide our policy. I note that there is an increasing number of temporary contracts, as in the Netherlands. For example, an employer should not pay two months for someone who looks a little sick. So there are many measures that really exclude people from the community. Hopefully we will be paying attention to this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament 10137 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u58	Minister, according to several sources, unemployment is reportedly declining in Belgium. The majority is already pleased that "the federal reforms would bear fruit". Yet, reality seems much more nuanced. Indeed, on the day following the announcement by ONEM of a fall of almost 10% in unemployment, the Social Integration PPS tempered this optimism by indicating a "historic increase in the number of people dependent on the CPAS": in 2015, 115,137 people per month received integration income, an increase of 12.4% compared to 2014. Young people between the ages of 18 and 24 are the most affected. They account for 30.7 % of the beneficiaries of social integration income (RIS), while they make up 10.7 % of the Belgian population. So there is an overrepresentation of a factor three of all this youth that we are sacrificing today in the name of our economy. Some also talk about demographic trends and the decline in the labour force to explain these figures. So my questions are as follows. How do you explain these different figures? Can the link with unemployment exclusions be established? What do you think of demographic change as a factor tempering this enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u59	Mr Hedebouw, I do not yet have a translation of the answer to your question, so if you will allow me, I will reply in Dutch. The annual evolution of the number of full-time unemployed seeking benefit varies according to age. For the age class below 50 years we note a decrease on an annual basis, for the over 50s an increase. The increase is explained, among other things, by the gradual raising of the age at which unemployed people can be exempted from registration as jobseekers, in particular from 50 to 60 years. Since 1 January 2015, the possibilities of applying for an exemption from job-seeking were restricted for the new entrants aged 60 and over. With regard to the number of unemployed under 50 years of age, for the second year in a row, we note a reduction on an annual basis, both in the case of the total unemployed who are admitted to unemployment benefit on the basis of employment benefits and in the case of those who are admitted to unemployment benefit on the basis of studies. Since 2008, the number in the latter group has remained below the pre-crisis level of 2007. Recent declining developments in the regulatory field have undoubtedly been influenced by the following factors. Firstly, since 1 January 2012, the professional start-up period, the previous waiting period, has been extended by three months. Second, since 9 August 2012, a specific procedure has been put in place for the activation of the search for work for rightholders on integration benefits. Thirdly, since 1 July 2013, the Action Plan for low-skilled young people under 27 years of age has been in place. Fourthly, since 1 August 2013, a specific procedure has been introduced for the activation of the search for work for young people who register as a job seeker after the end of their studies, a procedure for which the initial interviews were conducted from February 2014. Fifth, since 1 January 2012, the right to benefits has been limited and the first effects are noticeable from 1 January 2015. For example, in 2015 we will have 29 155 cases of the end of the right to benefits, but I must point out that in only 4 114 cases it concerns young people under 25 years of age. Sixthly, since 1 January 2015, there has been the diploma requirement for young people under the age of 21 who apply for an integration allowance. Finally, the decline in unemployment is also influenced by demographic and cyclical developments. We note several favourable cyclical indicators, such as the growth of GDP, the number of job offers and hours of temporary work and the decline in the number of bankruptcies. The drop-out from baby tree generation to retirement, while the overall population of 14 to 24 years remains relatively stable, also creates more opportunities for young people in the labour market. Those are a lot of factors that need to be taken into account here. We regularly monitor and monitor the situation of young people who are not or are no longer entitled to an integration allowance. In the meantime, it is clear that the overall decline in the number of jobseekers is not only due to the decline in the number of benefits. The questions relating to living wages are for my colleague, Minister Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u60	Mr President, my reply will be brief. The Minister's response is clear. We can hardly rejoice, since we are not only in a logic of integrating young people. These accounting transfers lead to even more precarious living conditions. We regret this policy, because we would prefer to see a real job creation that would allow young people to be integrated into a productive fabric that would make them feel useful to our society. God knows that work is one of the most important factors for integration, even if we bring together all the social actors and educators we want. By observing this society where 15 to 20 per cent of young people are methodically and economically excluded from the world of work, with a little hindsight, all economists should say that this is absolutely untenable. Yet, we continue to go in that direction. I will therefore follow this subject very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u61	Minister, we learned a few weeks ago that SAS Automotive and Benteler suppliers were in turn excluded from the contract for the new Volvo XC40 to be produced in Ghent. After the failures of Tenneco, Faurecia and Tower Automotive, it is almost 900 jobs in total that are threatened in the five companies by 2019. A month ago, Faurecia (85 workers), Tower Automotive (280 workers), Tenneco (80 workers) successively failed to secure a contract for the XC40. SAS Automotive (210 workers) and Benteler (220 workers) were therefore added to this list. Volvo requires its subcontractors to become 15% cheaper. Gantois subcontractors are therefore the victims of Volvo Cars' thirst for profit. Indeed, with 500,000 cars in 2015, Volvo had never sold so many cars. And the profit tripled in 2015, rising to 700 million euros. This was done on the backs of the workers, including those in Ghent. The profit margins per vehicle have increased in one year from 1.5% to 4%, which is a great performance in such a competitive sector. Faurecia that employs 85 workers in the port of Ghent will still supply door panels to Volvo Cars in Ghent in 2019, but they will come from Poland. It is only by supplying in Poland or Hungary that Faurecia can meet Volvo's requirements. What were Volvo's job guarantees to the federal government? What are the aids received by Volvo Cars in Ghent from different governments? What does the government intend to do to prevent a company like Volvo that makes a lot of profits, from layoff with the social but also ecological consequences that we know?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u62	Mr Hedebouw, with regard to Volvo Cars Corporation's decision not to engage with five Ghent suppliers, I can inform you that a social mediator is following developments closely and reporting to us at regular intervals. We have also been in contact with the Ghent Volvo Directorate on this regrettable decision not to go into business with those suppliers. We were confirmed that the decision was not taken by the Belgian but by the Swedish Executive Board and was probably based on an economic analysis. Of course, further consultations will be organised under the leadership of the social mediator. The impact of the decision about one to three years for the employees of the sub-contracting companies is not at present 100 % clear. We are, of course, very concerned about the fate of the employees of these companies and we will continue to work to achieve the best possible result for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u63	Mr Minister, you are informing us that economic power is already no longer in this country and that, in fact, the Belgian leadership no longer has much to say, if I understood you correctly. This is one of the deplorable consequences of this globalization. I didn't get many answers about the gifts Volvo Cars received. Budgetaryly, it's still not neutral! Do you have more precise figures on notional interest, reduction of contributions? Do we have some idea of the gifts given to Volvo Cars? Let's call it reductions since the term "gift" is already loaded ideologically enough. If the services could possibly provide me with a little more concrete information on the rebates obtained by the Belgian seats, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u64	The attached questions 10524 and 10546 are transformed into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 10736 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u65	Mr Vice Prime Minister, on 19 and 20 April you attended a meeting of the EU's Employment and Social Affairs Ministers in Amsterdam. The agenda included issues such as labour mobility, social rights and the platform against undeclared work. Can you explain that meeting? What were the main conclusions? Were there any concrete agreements, in particular in the area of tackling social dumping and posting fraud? On Twitter, you were very enthusiastic about the following statement: "Detaching must be of short duration, important that EU rules impose a maximum duration." What duration do you think is appropriate? Are you prepared to urge your party mate, Mrs Thyssen, to shorten the current duration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u66	On 19 and 20 April, as President of the European Union, the Netherlands organised an informal meeting of EU Employment and Social Policy Ministers in Amsterdam. At such informal meetings, ministers discuss issues that the country that is the EU's President considers important. For example, the first day of the informal council was marked by an informal debate on labour mobility and postings in the EU. On the second day there was an exchange of views on the European Pillar of Social Rights, as well as on the European Platform against undeclared work. These informal councils have no decision-making power. No decisions were taken in Amsterdam. With regard to the European Commission's proposal to provide for the introduction of a maximum posting period of 24 months when amending the Posting of Workers Directive, no maximum period has been set at this time, I have expressed the general position agreed in an intra-Belgian consultation in preparation for the informal meeting. Belgium considers that there are strong arguments to suggest that the duration should be rather short and that its assessment should take into account the reality of the field. I have said this very carefully and in English.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u67	Mr Vice-President, the number of postings has increased dramatically in recent years, and we are in third place in the ranking of the countries with the highest number of posted workers. And unfortunately, this technique is mainly used for financial reasons, because those employees are simply cheaper, not because they provide expertise and know-how. The consequences in terms of disloyal competition and job displacement are alarming and detrimental to social security, because social security contributions all flow back to the countries of origin. It's really time for action. You are talking about limiting the time limit, which is a good thing. You are speaking in 24 months, which I think is too long, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. We have already argued for a significant reduction in this period to three months, but we can talk about it and it can be six months, but 24 months is far too long. I really hope that you will encourage Mrs Thyssen to take real steps in this area. If the period is not significantly reduced, postings will continue for financial reasons and our social security will be under increasing pressure. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my hope is in your hands for a piece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u68	Mr President, Minister, as already stated, the government decided in the mid-April 2016 budget discussions to reintroduce the trial period for employers hiring a worker with a fixed contract. According to the government and some employers, the fact that the trial period has been abolished since 2014 would shift companies more towards temporary workers. Consequently, companies would be less quick to sign an open-ended employment contract. However, for trade unions, there would not be a significant increase in temporary employment which could be linked to the abolition of the trial period. Therefore, the justification for reintroduction is unclear. Minister, my questions are simple. What evidence is there to suggest that companies are less quick to sign an indeterminate employment contract since the withdrawal of the probationary period? Is there a study on the subject, perhaps from UCL or KUL? Is it also possible to have a study on the significant increase in acting employment since this elimination of the trial period?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u69	Mr Massin, you can follow your question on social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u70	At the level of social consultation, as far as the trial period is concerned, you have proposed to trade unions and employers' organisations to give an opinion or to formulate an alternative solution by 30 September 2016, the deadline. The Government said that it would like to see social dialogue, but if it had already taken a decision, it was that it envisaged a failure of consensus on the part of the Group of 10 and therefore of the social dialogue. Since the decision had already been taken, trade union organisations denounced a bogus consultation. At one point, a minister of finance was said to have the ear of the rich; I hope you don't have the ear of the employers. If the Group of 10 finds an agreement that goes against the decision taken in the context of the budgetary conclave, I assume that you will respect it. I hope you will answer me in the affirmative. Let us imagine, however, that before 30 September, there is not really a decision, but there are still some avenues to hope for an agreement. Will you give them more time to come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u71	Mr Minister, until 2014, a company was able to release a permanent employee free of charge in the first six months. With the introduction of the unitary status for workers and servants, that trial period was abolished. According to the employer, the abolition of the trial period leads to more interim contracts, but this has not been proven at all. The increase in Interim Contracts may be linked to many other factors, such as the increase in employment in certain sectors, privatisation and outsourcing of public services or government measures that stimulate flexibility in the labour market. The abolition of the pilot period has actually been achieved within the framework of the agreement on the unitary status. It is therefore a question of compensation for heavy deliveries which the servants have had to swallow. For example, the introduction of the unitary statute has reduced the cost of firing a servant by 30% to 40%. Today, the government also seems to want to reduce the compensatory measures for this. Minister, what is your position on the reintroduction of the probationary period? What will you do if no clear position is taken in the framework of the NAR as a result of the evaluation of the unitary status?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u72	Minister, I have a similar question. We've read the notifications. The unions are screaming murder and fire today. They're leaving the social consultation table. I saw this afternoon on Twitter not only reports about the flexi-jobs, but also about the ABVV, which claims that the trial period will be re-established. Other trade unions claim that too. That is nonsense, because that is not in the budget notifications. However, it says that the NAR is being asked to give an opinion on the evaluation of the abolition of that pilot period. It's been announced for a while. You have already answered questions in the past that you would have this evaluated. We have the impression, together with other parties, that there is an increase in temporary work and temporary contracts. We believe that this could be due to the fact that the probationary period no longer exists. We are therefore inclined to resume that probation, as you know, along with some other parties in the Chamber. The question is, how do you see it? You have had contacts with the social partners. What's the reaction there? We see the public statements. What will you do if there is no advice or a divided opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how things are proposed is, of course, very important. I was just reading a tweet by colleague Hedebouw, which states that the hunt for long-term sick should enter into force by 1 June 2016. However, the government implements the social agreement. These two Royal Decrees were drawn up on the basis of the social agreement within the Group of Ten. If that is a yacht, then the social partners have organized the yacht themselves, because these two KBJBs will come into implementation of the social agreement. However, you can see how quickly something can be interpreted. Of course, I always try to speak the truth and remain positive. The unions – FGTB and CSC – have not understood certain measures well. I hope that the Members of this committee will look at the problem with a great deal of wisdom and knowledge. Mr Lachaert, you are right to say that the trial period has been abolished. This was in a bigger picture. It included the Law of 26 December 2013. The only thing we have decided on in this respect was, by the way, a letter sent to us asking the social partners to provide us with an evaluation of the first phase of the unitary statute by 30 September 2016, with particular attention to the reform of notice periods and the deletion of the trial period. I believe that everyone has an interest in making an informed assessment. If the abolition of the pilot period causes problems in the recruitment of staff, then this should be discussed. If not, this should be placed in a different context. It is very regrettable that this is being proposed in a completely different way and that people are being misguided. Those responsible will hopefully see this as soon as possible. We have decided to ask for this evaluation and the date of 30 September seems to give me sufficient time to do so. Mr Massin, as far as social consultation is concerned, I have sent a letter to the Group of 10 asking for opinions on the work that can be done and how it can be done. We held a meeting with this group and found that it was not possible to discuss and negotiate the government's proposal. Yesterday, I received another letter from the unions asking me for a meeting to explain certain elements. Today, another letter from the FEB, Unizo, and other partners also asks me for a meeting. This will be particularly useful in so far as totally false messages circulate on certain elements: "38 hours are over, 40 hours are spent week", etc. This is disturbing. I understand that there are social elections and that they are trying to win as many votes as possible. We all know that when there are political elections. However, one has to read what it says. If it is unclear, one must ask for text and explanation before putting people on the wrong track. After all, that is manipulation, which is regrettable. People are quick to believe a thing or two. It would be better if they were properly informed. The conclusion is that we will receive both employers and employees. We shall receive them separately. We will answer all their questions. We will also continue to work on the implementation of the measures. I hope that, at some point, people will know what they are doing and will communicate with them. That's when we'll see where we stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u74	Minister, communication is an important element. I understand that the press hears what it wants to hear when measures are announced at a press conference, at the end of a budgetary conclave. But sometimes we have to ask ourselves if we have communicated well, if we have not unnecessarily lit a fire. I want to blame some of the tensions that may exist in the run-up to social elections. It is true that this is also partly the object of the game. Nevertheless, I have also read some things in the press, even before the trade union organisations express themselves. I take it that the journalists misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u75	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u76	Yes, but also before the trade union organizations had expressed their views. Or, some may be too fast in your government negotiations. It's possible, it's already been seen. They then warn trade unions, who take the fly directly and react brutally and violently. You know, when you do your press conferences, journalists put things directly on the Internet. Some are read. If trade union organisations read it, I too; and even, I tell you, before trade union organisations even react. Journalists also have reading grids. I want to understand. Now, I think the most important thing is to hear. You hear the employers' organisations, you hear the trade unions' organisations. These are important things. Compliance with the agreements is equally important. People should not feel betrayed. I hope that if there is no agreement between the social partners on the re-establishment of a trial period, it will be confirmed in the agreement that this trial period does not exist, point to point. I hope that at that time you will take into account previous agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u77	Mr Minister, your colleague, Mr Bacquelaine, said the same to me last week. He himself was completely misunderstood. He really thought we didn't understand everything he said. I think people understand where you want to be. I think you're quite pedagogic, in fact, in your way of communicating. I'm not going to criticize you about that. Do people agree? In the field, trade union organisations, about the 38 hours or the trial period, are still aware of the room for manoeuvre they have to negotiate. These persons, on a day-to-day basis, negotiate their collective agreements of enterprise or sector. These are negotiations for every hour with the boss: this time is recovered, this time is not. They spend hours negotiating exactly what skill you communicate. You can say that 1 million workers are already in increased flexibility. In itself, this is not an argument for the other 3 million. And you know very well that, for the first million, trade union authorization can always be given. That's the power you want to take away. It's an ideological debate. You say that since 1 million workers are in it, let's expand to everyone. And the others want to analyse in detail the content of collective agreements and what is wrong, at the societal level, in this overt flexibility. I don't think it's a problem of misunderstanding. I think the question is where do we want to go with society? Do we live to work or do we work to live? I think that is the debate that we will have in the coming weeks. Finally, I find that for the moment, it is quite calm in the social struggles. You're talking about an overbid for social elections. So, what was last year? Was it the baroud d'honneur to launch the big campaign? Let's be a little serious! I do not believe that there is an overbidding in companies since people are precisely occupied by corporate campaigns. As you know, we win elections by company, not just in a linear and interprofessional way. I hope that after the social elections, thanks to these young people who will arrive in all the trade union organisations and who will not be allowed to do so because their future is at stake, there will be a little more mobilization in the coming weeks. This morning, not in committee but at a meeting in Leuven, I learned with great pleasure that there would be an interprofessional and cross-sectoral event at the end of May. This kind of news fills me with joy and makes me say that I am glad to be in committee today so that I can also ask some disturbing questions. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic403x.u78	Mr Minister, in fact we have now discussed the issue more broadly than just the issue of probation and response. I agree with you that there is a lot of disinformation. For example, I read pamphlets from the ABVV and ACV about the introduction of the 45-hour week. Where that comes from, I don't know, but it's really bullshit. The trial period would be re-implemented, but I do not see that in the notifications either. Pensions would be reduced, but I do not see that happening immediately. Frankly, together with you, I hope that the social elections will soon be over, because that way we will get nowhere. In our country, we still have a lot of challenges when it comes to reforming our labour market, because it is still very nineteenth-century organised, as in the industrial age, on which Mr Hedebouw still injects his socio-economic model. However, I believe that society and the economy have changed, so we really still have some steps to take. That way, however, we won't get anywhere. Tomorrow we may have the opportunity to dot a few points about what is really true in relation to what is being said. People are frightened by pamphlets like this, and so there is no support for achieving things. Personally, I'm concerned about that. We must be able to make progress in a reasonable way, in constructive consultation with the social partners. The games in which people are frightened by communicating about decisions that have not been taken, as is happening now, I deeply regret. We have thus gone beyond the scope of the probationary period, but it is about the topicality of today.
