ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u1	Madam Minister, the United States and China recently announced, on the sidelines of the G20, the joint ratification of the Paris Climate Agreement (COP21) concluded last December. It will enter into force once 55 countries account for at least 55 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions have ratified the instrument. While, since then, some 20 states, representing only 2 per cent of emissions, have formally ratified the agreement, the recent declaration by China and the United States – weighing together nearly 40 per cent of global emissions – may well boost the ratification process, making it impossible for the agreement to enter into force by the end of this year, for the most optimistic. This is excellent news for the fight against climate change, except that the agreement has still not been ratified by the European Union, forced to wait until the 28 Member States have ratified them beforehand. However, several partners have conditioned their ratification on the conclusion of an intra-Community allocation plan for the effort to be made, for which negotiations began on 22 July with the Commission's proposal. Without ratification in time, the European Union, the world leader in the fight against climate change, will be relegated to the rank of mere observer, without the right to vote, at future COP conferences. Minister, my questions on this matter are twofold. Firstly, can you inform me about the progress of the negotiations on the plan for the intra-Community allocation of the emission reduction effort by 2030? What is the status of negotiations between the Regions and the federal government on the adoption of an agreement to share the internal climate objective? At what time do you hope to see this agreement, which is indispensable for the ratification of the agreement by Belgium, actually concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u2	Minister, I had attached two questions to Mrs Jadin's. You will allow me not to place them in full, since they date back to September 14 and the file has changed significantly. In addition, yesterday, in the Climate Sub-Committee, you provided a number of information. The Paris Agreement, opened for signature since 22 April 2016, reflects a country's intention to be bound by an agreement and constitutes a pre-ratification step. We know that the European Union has replaced its Member States to defend it. Similarly, fifty-five major contributors expressed their consent. This means that the 55% threshold has been reached. Yesterday, we discussed the federal and regional calendar. Your collaborator had indicated that the first half of 2017 would be used to try to obtain ratification by the parliaments of our country. Can you give us some details in this regard? As far as national agreements are concerned, we know that the Spanish interim government is not empowered to initiate parliamentary ratification. For our part, given the institutional complexity of our country, can you specify the deadline for ratification of the agreement? Secondly, is the position of Member States that refuse to ratify the Paris Agreement before an intra-European agreement is reached on the 2030 Energy-Climate package a danger to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u3	Mr Senesael, can you repeat the end of your question, because I was interrupted by my colleague for two seconds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u4	If Belgium states that political positioning is difficult to obtain by all parliaments, would this have an impact on the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u5	Thank you for your questions and will allow me to answer them completely, since Mrs Jadin also asked me and that she did not participate yesterday in the exchange of views on COP22 in the Climate Sub-Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u7	But I don't blame you, Madame Jadin! I am simply saying that I had the opportunity to respond yesterday to Mrs Temmerman and to Messrs. Senesael, Nollet, Van Hees and Wollants. That is why President Senesael abbreviated his question. I would also like to apologize for the repetitive nature of my answer. As for the state of play of the intra-Community negotiations for 2030, are you talking about Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u8	Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u9	We agree! I would like to announce that on 11 October the second legal text on the greenhouse gas register was finally approved, which is part of a whole with the coordination agreement reflecting the political agreement on burden sharing 2013-2020 which had been concluded, after years of waiting, on 4 December 2015 before the ministers concerned went to COP21. He went to the concertation committee on 26 October, while the register was the subject of a concertation committee today. These two media not only provide the legal basis for not only the burden sharing agreement, but also allow the release of the ETS auction proceeds to the federal and regional governments, which are housed in a bpost account with the federal government. The exercise we did for 2013-2020, we will have to do it for 2020-2030. As I said yesterday, the exercise that we did relatively easily (even if it took years, we did it under this government, so we accelerated the tempo; we reached an agreement) will be more difficult to do in the future, because the efforts that are being requested are much more important. The ones we have already used, because they were already made to establish the agreement 2013-2020 made things easier while here, we will also have to ask very hard questions about how the Regions and the federal government will accomplish these efforts around 2030. You know that the package that will come back to Belgium in terms of mandatory and voluntary efforts to be made by 2030 will be determined by the European Commission at the end of December, following an ongoing negotiation phase, in which the Regions are on the front line. They are the ones negotiating on the front line, and you know that at the moment this is still about the famous 35% Europe proposal, negotiated on the basis of specific criteria such as per capita cost-efficiency versus gross domestic product so that Belgian specificities are taken into account and this important 35 % effort is a little embittered. So here's where we are! As soon as we have the figure for Belgium at the end of this negotiation - I hope we will have it at the European Summit on 17 December - we will be able to start working again on the basis of the experience you have gained, a very in-depth experience in which we have done very detailed work. We are ready to start them again on this basis, knowing that the efforts we will have to make are linked to decisions for the future of the infrastructure which will generate a significant reduction in greenhouse gases and which will lead to an acceleration of the energy transition process. All this is connected and we will return to you. I will no longer be chair of the National Climate Commission, he will be one of my colleagues, I think it is Paul Furlan. It will lead the negotiations on the 2020-2030 package. What is the state of play in the negotiations on the adoption of a shared agreement? I just answered it. "Do you think this is essential for the ratification of the agreement by Belgium?" No! Since the ratification of the Paris Agreement is a very complicated process in our country. In fact, during the discussion on nuclear civil liability, there was an incursion by the German-speaking Community via the comments of a member of the committee. I am saying this because, in the context of the Belgian ratification of the Paris Agreement, a period has extended from the moment when the text duly translated into all three languages arrived in Belgium. This period was extended by an analysis of the international treaty by a technical committee to determine whether the treaty was a mixed treaty or not. If it is mixed, it must be ratified by the parliaments of the federated entities. In this technical committee, it was first considered that it was only the Regions, not the Communities, and the federal government that had to ratify it. This implies that a legal text should be drawn up, since it cannot be injected as such into Belgian legislation, which has been sent to each level of authority which has examined it and sent it to the Council of State. Each level of authority must also question bodies such as the Finance Inspectorate and must have the approval of the Budget, etc. At the federal level, we obtained the approval of the Budget on September 9, 2016. The Walloon Region was the first to send the text to the Council of State, after a passage before the Walloon government, around July/August. It was followed by the Flemish Region. The federal government sent the text to the Council of State after the budget agreement was reached in September, and it was received back on October 18, 2016. The Brussels-Capital Region knows more or less the same route as we do. She sent the text on September 15 and received it back – you do the calculation – around October 20 or 22. We follow with a synoptic table the state of progress of each of the procedures in the different stages of the State Belgium. I have here a table that is not yet updated, but that we can send you as soon as it is updated. You will see every level of power, including the German-speaking Community. Why am I talking about it? Do you imagine that at some point the Council of State, which gave its first opinions for the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region, said: "Should not the parliaments of the Communities be concerned given the mixed nature of this Treaty?" We then promptly re-examined the technical committee. It is always the Minister for Foreign Affairs who manages the entire process, since it is he who, when all parliaments have voted and published the text, will deposit the instruments of ratification for Belgium with the UN General Secretariat, which will mean that Belgium is in a position, legally, to ratify. This will be the act of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Under his leadership, the Technical Committee was therefore re-examined and said on 4 October that the Parliaments of the Communities should also take a decision. So we added to the four layers that I have just mentioned three more layers. It'll take a while longer. Yesterday, as the President of the sitting pointed out, we explained that, according to our forecasts, in the first half of 2017, therefore before June, the Minister of Foreign Affairs would have the possibility, after all these votes, of going to deposit the instrument of ratification with the UN General Secretariat. Mr. Senesael asked us if the non-ratification of the COP21 agreement prevented us from participating in COP22. The answer is no, since countries that have not yet ratified the agreement are fully participating in COP22. The COP21 agreement exists thanks to the percentage of countries that have ratified it and the percentage of greenhouse gases they represent. As I said yesterday, I am pleased that the European Community was able to ratify, as a community, without waiting for all European countries, the Paris Agreement, which allowed it to become binding as early as 4 November last, before the start of COP22. All COP21 signatory countries will fully participate in COP22, which will address concrete measures to implement this major COP21 agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u10	Madam Minister, last March I asked you about the CITES cell whose role in combating illegal trade in endangered species is essential. At the time, you were telling me good news. A strengthening of CITES inspection through the engagement of 8 new inspectors had been carried out. You also announced to me, with regard to the CITES COP to be held in late September in South Africa, that the composition of the delegation had not yet been fixed and that, given that the submission of proposals was scheduled for 27 April, you could not clarify the message to be sent by our representatives on the occasion of this event. Finally, in your reply, you announced your intention to set up a multidisciplinary task force to define Belgian priorities for the establishment of a federal plan to combat environmental crime. Minister, six months have passed since my question. Can you therefore tell me what progress has been made on the various points I have just mentioned, and in particular on the recruitment of the 8 new inspectors, the composition of the Belgian representation and the multidisciplinary task force? What is the composition of the latter? What are its priorities? If it has not yet been set up, why? In my second question, I referred to the 17th CITES Conference which took place from 24 September to 5 October last in Johannesburg on international trade in endangered animals and plants. According to the information published in various media, the 181 participating countries were satisfied with the decisions taken, you yourself mentioned, I quote, "real success". Minister, on what basis do you consider this conference to be a success? How do you explain that not all African elephants have been placed on the "list 1", which has the effect of allowing the ivory trade? According to you, the fact that elephants from four countries are not in "list 1" but in "list 2" is, I quote, "a strong signal". Would it not have been more appropriate to plead for a total ban on this trade, as is the case, in particular, with rhinocero horns? What justifies such a difference in treatment? Also on this subject, it appears that Belgium has decided to contribute to the fight against illegal ivory trade by financing projects submitted by African States under the African Elephant Fund and by supporting the Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. How much will this contribution be? As far as lion protection is concerned, it is learned that "the trade in lion bones will be very limited and will be monitored closely" or that "hunting trophies" can be legally exported. Here again, can you tell us how successful this is when the population of these animals is constantly declining to more or less 20,000 individuals. Why not plead for a total ban on these practices? In this regard, the NGO International Union for Conservation of Nature believed that this species should be placed on the "list 1". How do you explain that this recommendation has not been followed? What was Belgium's position on this? Finally, what measures adopted at this Conference will have concrete implications for our country and when will they be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u11	Mr President, on your first question, I did indeed ask for eight new environmental inspectors. They've been in discussion for a long time and I got them. You know that the service really struggled to accomplish its tasks because of a shortage of staff. These inspectors will be assigned to monitor the various environmental issues and not just CITES. Three will be committed in 2017 and three in 2018. In addition, two contract inspectors will be hired in 2017 through the Raw Materials Fund and will work full-time for CITES. As regards the Belgian delegation and your question on this subject, it consists of three experts from the CITES cell, two external experts from the Belgian Scientific Committee CITES and two representatives from my firm. Everything is written to the present because the answer was made before or during the COP but it took place and in reality they went there and came back. The three main priorities of the Belgian delegation were, at the outset of a scientific approach, to use the full range of CITES instruments to regulate international trade in a sustainable manner, to constantly increase the mobilization against illegal trade and to aim for a transparent and responsible way of working for all parties. 62 proposals were on the agenda for an adaptation of the CITES Annexes. For Belgium and the European Union, attention was focused on marine species, tropical wood species and certain species present mainly in the trade of domestic animals such as the grey parrot, the Berber macaque and the cardinal fish. On the other hand, great attention is obviously paid to elephants, rhinoceros and pangolin. In addition to the proposals to amend the annexes, there are also more than 80 motions for resolutions. The highest priority has been the resolution against corruption and the various resolutions to impose measures against countries that have made insufficient efforts to combat illegal trade. With regard to your third question, in order to implement this European plan, at my request, DG Environment has prepared an analysis table identifying the potential players to be involved. Indeed, in addition to the CITES cell of DG Environment, the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs, the Internal FPS, Justice, Finance, Economy and AFSCA have been identified as key players in the implementation of this action plan at Belgian level. Based on this mapping, bilateral meetings with my federal counterparts will be gradually made to discuss further the effective implementation of this action plan and to set priorities together. I'm coming to your second flight of questions. The CITES COP 17 can be considered a success because many measures have been adopted unanimously, with the support of all parties concerned. As far as elephants are concerned, a status quo is maintained with regard to the status of the African elephant. Currently, no international trade in ivory is possible and this situation has remained unchanged by COP 17 decisions. All populations remain in Annex A1, with the exception of South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe. These four populations are listed in Appendix B2, but with very specific conditions and restrictions. Because of these restrictions, no free trade in ivory is possible. This was the situation before the COP and it is maintained as it stands. Belgium and the European Union did not support listing these four populations in Annex A1 for various reasons. I'm quoting two of you. First, the scientific criteria are not met. Elephant populations in these countries are healthy and stable and even increasing. This analysis is also supported by the International Union of Nature Conservation, Traffic and the CITES Secretariat. Secondly, if a decision to list Annex A1 had been taken, there would have been a real risk that some countries would have made a reservation against it. This would have given these countries the opportunity to market ivory, which is a counterproductive effect. There is an identical situation for rhinoceros. It is also included in Annex A1, but with one exception for the populations of South Africa and Swaziland, which are listed in Annex B2. Here too, there are very severe restrictions which mean that, at present, normal trade is not possible. There is therefore no difference in attitude with regard to rhinoceros and elephants. For these two species, I believe that a resumption of trade in ivory and rhinoceros horn at this time is in no way desirable given the high level of poaching and illegal trade. Furthermore, scientific criteria should be respected and countries experiencing stable or growing populations should not be penalized. Since the beginning of my legislature, I have decided to support both initiatives. In 2014, I had the opportunity to provide US$50,000 for the African Elephant Fund and US$25,000 for the Virunga Park. This year, financial contributions are also planned, but the process for making them is still under way. These are limited amounts, but each contribution counts given our interest in these projects. As far as the lion is concerned, I would like to point out that the International Union for the Conservation of Nature itself, in its analysis, was not in favour of the full inclusion of the lion in Annex 1. The proposal for listing was not supported by all States in the range. It is also very clear that not all lion populations met the scientific criteria for listing. The same four South African countries, Namibia, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Botswana, clearly did not meet the registration criteria, and there are other countries for which the situation is less obvious. Since it was clearly impossible to reach a consensus on the matter, a working group of experts had been established on the spot and had reached the current compromise. It was supported by all parties and thus by the countries in the range, including the countries that had submitted the initial proposal for listing in Annex 1 and all the countries present. With regard to the measures decided at this COP, which have a direct impact on our country, I can tell you that all decisions to amend the annexes will apply 90 days after the end of the COP. These will have to be transposed into the European Regulation and will probably enter into force in the European Union in early 2017 and therefore directly in Belgium. These include various commercially important wood species, various reptiles held as domestic animals, and, for example, the inclusion of the grey parrot, a species often marketed as a pet. These new species will be subject to registration and can only be marketed in the future if the required permits or certificates are available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u12	Minister, I congratulate you on these precise, comprehensive, exhaustive and objective answers so well formulated that if I had the answer it would be even perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u13	Minister, on September 2, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (which has a new president) decided, by leaving a one-year deadline for industry to comply with the new standards, to ban soaps and cleaning products containing one or more of the 19 antibacterial active ingredients such as triclocarban or triclosan. They have been accused, some for many years, of being both inefficient and dangerous to health and the environment. The chemical assets listed contribute, according to the FDA, first to the appearance of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, second to the elimination of the good bacteria that are vital to us, third to the disruption of the human hormonal system (with effects on the brain, fertility, cardiac functions) but also of animals and plants. The danger is all the greater as they find themselves in the sludges of sewage treatment plants, which later spread on agricultural land to fertilize them, thus risking being found in the food chain. Minister, are you aware of substantiated studies in Europe or Belgium, confirming or relativising this analysis and its conclusions? What is your reading and position on this American decision? Do you intend to take the same protective measures with regard to these products? Have Europe and its services investigated this? Has the European Commission planned to legislate in this area in the same way as the FDA? If these conclusions on toxicity and dangerousness are proven, do you intend to bring this matter to the attention of the Council of European Ministers of Health? Finally, since antibacterial soaps and health products are used in medical settings, do they contain any active ingredient(s) that the FDA has incriminated? If so, and if they prove toxic, how do you intend to act? Would it be possible to replace them with non-harmful and equally effective products? I would point out, Madam Minister, that at the beginning I had addressed my question to your colleague Maggie De Block, but I was referred to you, which I am fully satisfied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u14	Thank you, Mr President, I am also pleased with that. My administration has followed with interest the decision of the Food and Drug Administration to ban soaps and antibacterial products for individuals. It is indeed a good decision. These products do not bring benefits in terms of efficiency in everyday use and have a significant impact on health and the environment. Decisions concerning substances active in biocides are taken at European level, in accordance with the terms of Biocidal Regulation No 528/2012, which deals with "the placing on the market and use of biocidal products which are used to protect humans, animals, materials or articles against harmful organisms such as harmful animals and bacteria by the action of active substances contained in the biocidal product". This Regulation aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising the rules concerning the making available on the market and the use of biocidal products while ensuring a high level of protection for human and animal health and the environment. I can tell you that the two most used substances, triclosan and triclocarban, are already banned as active substances in antibacterial soaps. Triclocarban has been banned since 2008, while the triclosan has been banned since January 2016 with a transition period of one year. DG Environment's inspection department is working with companies to ensure that the seven licensed products are effectively removed from the market by January 2017. These European decisions have obviously been made on the basis of efficacy, ecotoxicity and toxicity studies. I refer you to the ECHA website, the European Chemicals Agency, for the content of the studies. I can also provide you with the link for triclosan. In addition, I have instructed my administration to verify the status in Europe of the 17 other substances banned by the FDA. Either there is already a valid European authorisation or ban, or the ECHA Scientific Committees in which Belgium is represented will analyse these active substances in the coming years. With regard to putting this issue on the agenda at the Council of European Ministers of Health or the use of these products in the medical community, I would refer you to my honourable colleague, Mrs Maggie De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will therefore question Mrs De Block as regards the medical aspect. For the rest, I am fully satisfied with your answer. As I understand it, the other 17 substances are already essentially banned within the European Union. But I'm sure I'll check it out on the site you told me. With regard to the substance which is still allowed on a transitional basis until 1 January 2017, I imagine that checks will also be carried out to ensure that they do not continue to be distributed. Could you tell me whether, from that date on, they can no longer be manufactured or they can no longer be sold?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u16	DG Environment's inspection department is already working with companies to ensure that the seven products containing triclosan are effectively removed from the market by January 2017. The goal really is that there is nothing left on the market containing triclosan as of January 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope I have such a comprehensive answer every time I ask a minister a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u18	Mr President, I was just saying that I was always happy to come to this committee because I often receive positive messages, which is not the case in other committees. And in addition, today I hold the room Gabrielle Petit, a Tournaisienne known for her high events of resistance during the First World War. It's a double pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u19	Minister, last February, I asked you about the decline in the native salamander and triton populations associated with the development of an Asian mushroom, Bsal. At the time, you pointed out that consultations had been held with the Regions but also at European level in order to determine the measures to be taken to preserve biodiversity. Thus, at Belgian level, you explained that you had scheduled a series of meetings in order to be able to submit a draft plan at the beginning of this semester. As far as the European strand is concerned, you explained to me that on behalf of Belgium you asked that the problem of the disappearance of indigenous salamanders and tritons be put on the agenda of the Environment Council, which was due to meet in June 2016. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the status of this issue, in particular on the progress made with your regional counterparts in implementing the plan you announced and the outcome of last June's Environment Council meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u20	On 20 June 2016, Germany and Belgium jointly presented a briefing on the pathogenic fungus Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans – in short Bsal – and called for immediate action at European level to prevent any spread and protect European populations of native salamanders and tritons. The European Commission has responded by saying that it is aware of the problem and is analysing possible avenues for action. Pending a new measure at European level, whether in the environment sector or in the animal health sector, I notified the Commission in May 2016 of a draft royal decree temporarily prohibiting the import, export and transit of certain types of non-native salamanders and tritons. The Commission has commented on this initiative. They are being examined by my administration. They relate mainly to compliance with certain European provisions relating to animal health rights. At Belgian level, in 2016, my administration brought together several times the regional environmental administrations responsible for nature conservation, with a view to drawing up a national action plan to prevent any subsequent introduction of Bsal and its expansion into our territory. This plan is still under development and is expected to be submitted for approval to the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment (IEC) by the end of 2016. In particular, the plan provides for active monitoring in the field, over several years and in the three regions, in order to determine the exact spread of the pathogen in Belgium. An annual monitoring of the populations of salamanders coupled with those of crêté triton, mandatory under the Habitat Directive, will also be proposed to my regional colleagues in order to establish up-to-date data. In particular, this monitoring will detect any decline in urodele populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for taking stock of this and the progress that has been made. What is important is the approval of the plan by the CIE that you are announcing for the end of this year. In the hope that the outcome will be positive and positive, you will allow me to come back to you in February 2017 to find out the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u22	Article 6 of the Act of 5 May 1997 states that a federal sustainable development plan is adopted 12 months after the establishment of a new government. After adoption by the Council of Ministers, the draft plan must also be sent for advice to the Regions, the Legislative Chambers and the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. This plan is also the subject of public consultation. I've asked you about this on several occasions. You have responded to me each time very kindly that the negotiations are still under way within the government. Minister, this is more than two years old. On September 15, I asked you the question and it was almost two years ago. To my knowledge, this plan is still not adopted, contrary to the legal prescription. What are the causes of this delay, of this blockage, if there is a blockage? When will this new plan be available and how will you consult with the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u23	Far from thinking that you're insistent, it helps me, as I have already said, that you insist. Because I will still be able to say that I have received questions and that we must move forward. I will start with the academic answer and then give my feeling on this issue. As I had the opportunity to say in April, this is a complex matter which requires agreement from each of the partners on the text of the preliminary draft before it is submitted to the Council of Ministers for consultation. I have already had the opportunity to explain to you that this draft federal sustainable development plan was submitted to me by February 2015, but that the working groups responsible for its review had not agreed on its content. Now this text has become obsolete. By force, the flow of time makes... At my request, the administration is currently working on a project that is consistent with the draft national sustainable development strategy. Last July, I sent a letter to each of my colleagues to raise awareness of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), highlighting the link between their 2016 Policy Note and the Sustainable Development Goals. I also asked them to highlight the link between their 2017 Policy Note and the Sustainable Development Goals. Currently, the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development is also considering the framework text of the national sustainable development strategy to ensure that it meets the development goals of the same name. This text is itself being discussed at the Interministerial Conference of the same name, which met on 3 October and gave me a mandate to send it to the Federal Council on Sustainable Development in consultation with the Regional Councils. It is the whole Belgian tree that is here expressing itself. As I have just said, the preliminary draft federal sustainable development plan is no longer relevant. It therefore seems interesting to me to have the agreed framework text. We will then be able to reflect with the government on how best to propose a plan that integrates sustainable development objectives into federal policy. That's the way I evolve through difficulty. In accordance with the law, the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development sent me a proposal for consultation with the population. The aim is to use existing communication channels to gather expert advice. The aim is not to conduct a broad awareness-raising campaign. In this regard, it seemed to me better to develop other projects such as awareness-raising on sustainable development goals. Within this framework, a brochure will be distributed. A website www.sdjis.be has been developed. I invite you to consult him. Civil society relays were designated on 26 September to conduct specific communication campaigns and a short video was published. This is for the academic response that has its full value and is politically correct. To use a small phrase of my own, I note that partners do not always have the will to have a sustainable development policy at the federal level. That is where the problem lies. This does not allow us to move forward as quickly as possible on a text that I want to pass on because I believe that the federal government has powers that are clearly expressed, that are politically interesting and relevant at the federal level and that need to be expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I do not want to argue at all, but let me give you my appreciation. Personally, I find that the Act of May 1997 which implements this federal sustainable development plan has its full relevance. Indeed, from the moment that each department is made aware of the efforts to be made, the path to be followed, the way in which the objectives that have been set are to be met, it seems to me that the road map is quite simple to follow. I think I share your opinion about the political will of some to collaborate actively, if not proactively, in the development of this plan. However, this must be made binding in one way or another when good will is lacking, which is not provided for in the 1997 Act. I will therefore allow myself to take up the text of this law and to see, with concrete and clear proposals, how to move forward faster, without necessarily detriculating what is the essence and the substance of this law. I believe that this federal sustainable development plan is a necessary cornerstone to have the medium and long term on the horizon, which we do not currently have, and I regret it bitterly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u25	We have a long-term vision with about 55 defined goals. They are similar to the international sustainable development goals that were voted in September 2015 in New York. We are talking about the federal sustainable development plan, and we agree with you and I that it is relevant under the 2007 Act, which is not perceived by some partners. So I can only say to you: "Express yourself!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u26	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, during our exchange on September 29, you said that "the final version of this year's reporting exercise has not yet been approved by the CNC, so unfortunately I cannot give you any final figures for 2015". The next day, these figures became public. While Belgium had committed itself in Paris to pay at least 50 million additional euros, in 2015 it would have paid only 46.8 million, 40 million less than the previous year! Moreover, the "quality" of climate finance is not being worked out, as official development assistance remains in full double counting: 92% of the funds valued as climate finance come from the budgets of the Cooperation! I raised this point yesterday. But if I ask you this oral question today, it is to get precise answers from you. Now that the figures are public, I would like your political assessment of the situation. What are you going to do to correct what is legitimately pointed out by NGOs as a triple hindrance to the commitments confirmed in Paris? I think that on the eve of the Marrakech conference, we have the right to get a clear answer from you and, above all, commitments for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u28	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I am glad that you insisted on putting this question to rest. Indeed, by listening to you and reading the text of your question, I find that it is much more precise than the one you asked me yesterday. She definitely deserves a more precise answer than I did yesterday. I therefore thank you for this question. The difference is indeed significant, but can be partly explained by the important contribution that the federal authority made to the Green Climate Fund on the margins of the Lima COP 20 in 2014. On this occasion, our country disbursed 40.6 million euros as part of the initial mobilisation of the GCF fund, which were therefore reported as part of last year's reporting exercise, although these amounts will actually be disbursed gradually by the fund during the period 2015-2018. I invite you to refer to my colleague, Minister De Croo, for more information on our contribution to climate funding in recent years. As for your comments on double counting, I would like to point out that there is no commitment to international climate finance that prevents developed countries from reporting on their contributions to climate finance and development aid. There is no internationally accepted definition of key concepts, such as "climate financing" or "new and additional". In Belgium, we consider, like any developed country, that integrating climate change into our development aid is a crucial issue, which is why we carefully monitor our contribution through this and report it in the context of the Climate Convention. Civil society organisations do not have the same conception of these different terms, which I respect, but their accusations of obstructing the Paris Agreement do not seem to me to be well founded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u29	Minister, I think you're playing with words. While it is not impossible for development cooperation financing to be valued in the context of climate change, it must be new and additional. The problem is that here it is simply the recycling of pre-existing means. So there is nothing new or additional. In doing so, you're putting Belgium on the sidelines. Other countries do, too, and I agree with you. But it is not because others make mistakes that we have to make the same. In any case, you put Belgium, in part, outside of the commitment it has made internationally and which it has confirmed in Paris. Both are necessary: climate and development cooperation. Both can join. The climate has an impact on development cooperation and development cooperation can have an impact on the climate. That is obvious, and I believe that NGOs do not deny it. But what is wrong is that this funding is not new and additional. That's my first point. Secondly, you do not give any commitment to raising ambitions in the future. Yesterday, I was referring, and I will also do so today, to the fair contribution estimated by your administration, which recalled it yesterday: a trajectory towards EUR 500 million. However, you are still set at EUR 50 million today. Not a word from you about the first steps to go towards this 500 million euros. I can't be disappointed anymore. I think that in Marrakech, once again, Belgium will not be able to live up to what will be expected of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u30	I suggest that you suspend the meeting for a few moments, so long as our colleagues can join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u31	Question No 13573 by Mr Maingain is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u32	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, during our last discussion on this subject, I regretted that the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan had not yet been adopted, although it should have been adopted since 2012. Already last June, you made it clear to me that a proposal for a text would shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers as regards the federal part. It seems to me that, since the tabling of my question, the Council of Ministers adopted, on 28 October, the federal contribution to the Adaptation Plan. What about it? You will be able to specify this in your answer. What steps have been taken, what steps still need to be taken, and what is the content of the federal contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u33	Minister, the federal authority has levers in various sectors to carry out adaptation actions. To leverage these levers and implement a coordinated federal adaptation policy, a draft Federal Climate Change Adaptation Plan was drafted in 2014. The draft Plan was submitted for public consultation from 17 February to 18 April 2014. In parallel with this consultation, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD) also delivered an opinion. The recent agreement on burden sharing makes it possible to move forward on the political approval of the draft Federal Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change. The Council of Ministers on 28 October adopted the federal contribution to the Climate Change Adaptation Plan. Minister, can you tell us more about the content of the federal contribution to the Adaptation Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers on October 28th? What are the next steps towards a National Adaptation Plan? I would also like to know what are the differences between the draft Plan for public consultation and the CFDD and the Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u34	Colleagues, as you know, the federal contribution to the Climate Change Adaptation Plan was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2016. The last time you asked me a question about this, I said that it was at the DAB stage, the penultimate stage before the Council of Ministers. The amended contribution is not intended to be a comprehensive catalogue of measures. It focuses, as I said in September, on exclusively federal sectors and will also include some cross-cutting actions. It should be pointed out here that the federal government has not waited, as part of its budgetary resources, for its contribution - as I have already said, but I repeat - to take part in actions aimed at adapting to climate change, in collaboration with the federated entities, even though some believe that this matter is purely regional in nature, which is part of the ongoing overall difficulties. With regard to the Adaptation Plan, it is finalized but still needs to be approved by the National Climate Commission (NCC). The 11 actions included in this draft plan focus on improving and disseminating the knowledge base on adaptation, strengthening sectoral coordination, taking adaptation into account in different sectors such as health, biodiversity, energy and crisis management, transnational cooperation on adaptation and assessing the level of preparedness for climate change impacts. As Chair of the CNC, I intend to put this project on the agenda of the December meeting in order to reach, I hope, by the end of this year, as I indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u35	Minister, the federal side is ready. Now you're covering the whole thing in an inter-federal part. I'll call it that. It will be for the end of December ideally, in any case in your scheme. Could we already have the document of the purely federal part in such a way that we do not express ourselves in a vacuum? I will simply take note, at this stage, of your response and receive from your collaborator the document relating to the federal part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u36	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Thank you for the clarification and planning as well as for the themes that have been discussed. Like Mr Nollet, I would also like to have the document that has already been prepared. It will satisfy my curiosity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u37	Minister, I changed my question somewhat, as it was tabled before the consensus committee meeting on October 26. The political agreement on burden sharing that you yourself have signed provides for the transfer of ETS revenues to the Regions. The above-mentioned consultation committee resulted in an agreement. You had announced that you would pay the ETS revenue to the Regions following the passage of the cooperation agreement into a consultation committee. What about it? When will these revenues be paid to the various partners in this agreement? In what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u38	Minister, as always, a file evolves between the time a question is tabled and the moment it is put.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u39	Luckily!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u40	That is why the case has evolved. And fortunately, as you say. We agree with that. Nevertheless, I find it useful for you to re-explain the points that, at the time, were blocking. That is why I shall repeat the question as it stands by adding a supplement to the two versions of the texts. On 11 October, you announced that you would finally have an agreement on the transposition of the cooperation agreement concluded in December 2015. But it seems that once again, this announcement was premature. What points of disagreement remained after 11 October and have since been the subject of discussions between the cabinets of the ministers concerned? The CNC met on 18 October and the government approved the text at a later date. It was sent to the consultation committee, which itself approved the text. But yesterday I pointed out a divergence in the documents. Do you have them, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u41	We have the version adopted by the Consultation Committee. The minister will come back. It's the only version that exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u42	Yes, yes. I'm not accusing you of having the wrong document. I'm just saying there's a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u43	The federal document is the one I sent you through your collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u44	I don't doubt it. But I was able to compare since I now have both documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u45	Are you sure the documents have the same date? Because, if the document that I have transmitted to you, which is the only authentic document, is after the one that has been transmitted to you – I see where it can come from –, necessarily, there are differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u46	It is to identify these differences that I ask you the question. Yesterday, I didn't have the document in front of me. In particular, there are differences in Article 7 and Annex 4. I wanted, in the timeline, to identify these points. I assume that you or the Flemish Government have identified these differences which imply that the Flemish Government will have to re-approve the text of the conciliation committee. Otherwise, we will live with two different texts, which I doubt. This is not legally possible. These are my questions about the past and those, updated, about these differences, with an intention also on my part, since at our last plenary meeting on 13 October, you forgot to answer my question. I didn't make it an incident. That's why I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u47	I agree. Good!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u48	I hope that this time there will be an answer. What political lessons do you learn from this unglorious episode in terms of future issues, including burden sharing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u49	Minister, in December 2015, the federal and regional governments reached a political agreement on the distribution of climate targets to be achieved by our country under the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020. On 11 October last, the relevant ministers indicated that they had a compromise on a draft text for a cooperation agreement. The draft was presented to the Council of Ministers. We must now honour our signature at the bottom of the December 2015 agreement, reaffirmed in July 2016, and immediately pay the €210 million that the federal government owes to the three Regions. What is the status of these payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u50	Madam Chair, I will repeat in part what I explained yesterday during the exchange of views organised by the Chair of the Climate Committee on COP22. This is done more systematically, and it is probably interesting to repeat some of the more informal elements. What happened? On 11 October 2016, we reached agreement on the legal text called the cooperation agreement, which reflects the political agreement reached after years of inertia. You say "little glorious," but I insist that for years your group was part of some previous governments, where you held the position of Minister of Energy and Sustainable Development. In the Walloon government, there was a climate minister, Mr. Henry, who was involved in these negotiations and who had not won an agreement. However, we managed to reach a political agreement which we then translated into a legal text. This is a completely new exercise, that is, it is not enough to design a political agreement, with principles, broad lines, to say that we have the legal text three days later. You have it in front of you, the authentic text that came out of the October 26 consultation committee has much more pages and details than the four- or five-page political agreement that was reached on December 4, 2015, before COP21. In this legal text, called the Cooperation Agreement, the Regions agreed on the principle of solidarity (Article 37). There is no longer any difficulty between them, especially the Walloon and Flemish regions. In the absolute exercise that we made at the time of the political agreement in 2015 to compare the progress in renewable energy on the final consumption of the inhabitants of this country between 2013 and 2020 on all the levels of power concerned (federal and Regions), it became clear that Wallonia was in advance and that Flanders was less advanced. It was therefore suggested, on the path of the efforts to be made, that it would probably be necessary for the most advanced, the one who has gone beyond the road and who has statistics to yield and value to do so. It is essential, knowing all that is known about regional policies and taking into account the efforts of the federal and Brussels-Capital which cannot put wind turbines on its territory, so that the Belgian house reaches 13%. According to the Constitution itself and the principle of loyalty, the exchange could have been considered free of charge. However, the Walloon Region had indicated that it had contacts with Luxembourg. I also pointed out that it would be very difficult legally because Luxembourg refuses to deal with partners other than a State and is therefore not going to enter into negotiations and contracts with a Region. All this is linked to the European regulatory system. It was therefore considered that it would be better to use these surpluses to enable Belgium to reach 13% by 2020, that is the least of the things according to the principle of loyalty. It's been blocked for a long time. I was very surprised because they were later told that they had agreed in an hour. For me, if they know how to agree in one hour on October 11, they know how to agree a month before, two months before, since we started these discussions in June, do the calculation. All the more so since they had issued a press release indicating that they had a Flanders-Wallonia working group on renewable energy. I thought it was great, I applauded both hands thinking they were finally going to agree. Well, no, as with everything, it took a while. This is Fernand Raynaud's story with the barrel of the cannon. It took a while and I was happy to welcome them to sign this agreement. You're gonna get the details. I systematically asked everyone about all the issues that had been worked on with the administration and that could still be a problem. I asked each time whether the two parties agreed and, finally, they told me that they agreed. They were in a hurry, they were happy, so it was done. It was on October 11th, a Tuesday. We are then working on a text that can be signed by everyone, after going around the various officials, and then going to the Council of Ministers of each of us and being downloaded to the concertation committee on 26 October, as planned. I had 14 days to go. Do the math. I told them that I was happy to see the text that was to be downloaded immediately finish. I'll put the text in order. I send it as desired for a final screening by the administrations of each level of authority concerned, on Thursday for Friday. On Friday, I receive certain requests (corrections of texts, spelling, phrase formulations, nothing on the substance). The weekend goes on and on Mondays, I send the drivers to the party offices. I ask them to get signed at the Emperor's Boulevard, Mr. Magnette, Mr. Furlan, etc. Then I get a call from Paul Furlan's chief of staff who tells me there's a problem on Schedule 4. I'm falling naked! I ask what is the problem since last week there was no problem when we had the text under review.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u51	Annexes included?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u52	Of course... Despite everything you can say, especially those who don't know me well, it's not at all my way of working. I express my displeasure to them because they had received and read the text. The problem concerned excise duties on fuel oil, professional diesel fuel, etc. You have the item in Appendix 4 in front of you. I quote all this from memory. I point out to them that the federal government has always said that its mandate includes several options. I had explained in his time that, when the legal text had been drafted by the Interfederal Working Committee which is working under the leadership of the National Climate Commission – which had taken some time because it was complicated – there had been arbitrations with several options depending on the ukases of each level of power. The federal government had always said that this was option 2 for him. There were two options. They tell me that this is wrong, that there is a problem. I say to them: "One, you read the text; two, you told me there was no problem; three, we are X days later and we are on the edge of the signature, and you tell me that there is a problem. We have the Consultation Committee on 26 October. If you want to question this, it will not be necessary to complain afterwards that it drags, while it will be because of you." Of course, the situation is getting a little bit mixed up, as can happen at the last metre of a negotiation. I always say that a marathon gets a metre after the finish, you don't have to bend before the finish. We tell them then that we are going to take over and ask them what is the situation. IKW, inter-federal, forward! We made a federal IKW, and then an inter-federal IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u53	What's the date at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u54	It's Monday... but I don't know what day is October 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u55	October 11 is a Tuesday. So it's 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u56	There you go. We do everything we need and finally, everything is resolved. A small amendment changes Annex 4: the federal option 2 is maintained, but with an amendment for the Regions, which has been adopted by everyone and we have left. I am downloading the document for the Federal Council of Ministers. I'm on the 20th. Then I arrived at the consulting firm where everything went through with exceptional speed; for the work had been well prepared. This is often the way my files go to the Council of Ministers or elsewhere. In general, the texts are worked out in a very thorough manner. I'm not saying it to brag, but it's a reality. They are thoroughly checked, rechecked, etc. It goes so fast that on that day, on 26 October, we were discussing CETA in a concertation committee, as a matter of priority. So, of course, burden sharing was over. No one was worried about it anymore. I had not yet been able to get anyone to sign, since there had been this little detour through Appendix 4. I caught Paul Furlan coming back from the radio, I asked him to sign and it was done! But the others, including Paul Magnette, were locked up for CETA. We couldn't go around the signatories. It had to be done later, since I still had the second legal text, as I explained to you yesterday, which concerns the greenhouse gas register. It is a technical text par excellence, in which the authorising officer and the administrator of the account on which the ETS auction proceeds are located are appointed, which is in fact the real technical sesame allowing the release of funds. Together, we have relied on this text. We decided on 11 October: according to the Act of 22 May 2003, which requires an authorising officer, an administrator and the creation of special budget boxes for an account. As I explained to you in plenary, it is not funds that need to be liquidated to cover all the expenses of a budget. This starts from a specific place to get to a specific place, for specific policies. That text was the second, and was still to pass. No one has ever found anything to say about this text, especially since it already existed before. It has been added with various modifications over time. All we have done is revitalize it to give it a formal reading aspect that is more consistent and more accessible in terms of readability. So he went by without a problem. I submitted it to the Council of Ministers two weeks ago on 28 October. He went to the Electronic Consultation Committee today. It takes some time for things to happen. There was All Saints' Week. I would have wanted to do that at the time, but it wasn't possible. The Electronic Consultation Committee means that everyone must be present to consider whether or not this is appropriate. Previous episodes have made me extremely cautious. As a result, I now ask the Regions to make their debt statements. I obviously need a request to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u57	So it is only today that it is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u58	There is no value judgment (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u59	I now ask them for their debt statements. I quickly had Flanders with the amount, the account number and the request for payment. There's no problem. Now I'm waiting for Brussels Capital, I've just got Wallonia. In the meantime, as I asked my staff member to put pressure on me, I had the one from Wallonia and now I am going to have, I hope, the one from the Brussels-Capital Region who may wish to be paid for 30 January for the reason I explained to you in plenary session. The Brussels-Capital Region wants to receive in four times the amount due to it for the period 2013-2020 so that this corresponds, each time, to the expenditure it wishes to incur in its budgets at those times, in order not to disrupt the European ESA standards for consolidation of budgets. Once I have all of this, I will ask the official to release the funds because we felt that the agreement of the Conciliation Committee on the legal text of the cooperation agreement and the text of the greenhouse gas register were the regulatory acts that, according to the Act of 22 May 2003, can serve as the basis for the release of the funds. We need a law or a regulatory act. As far as the teachings for the future are concerned, I believe that you understand them for yourself. I don't have much to say about that. I said yesterday and I repeat that, in substance, the technical efforts to be made for the period 2020-2030 on our territory, in this new package which will be assigned to us by Europe, to the European Council of Environment Ministers on 17 December, this will be something difficult to imagine. One can always make a text that does not correspond to a reality. For that, there is no problem. But making a text that corresponds to a reality, which is still imaginable in concrete terms at ten, fifteen years, can be done. With all the permits to be obtained, the large technical infrastructure that makes it possible to carry out these efforts sometimes takes four, five years to emerge and to be operational. You can imagine it. I feel like it's going to be more complicated. On the other hand, the technique, the legal text, etc., will not require so much effort, because we have done so. How to work together, how to equalize by finding the quantitative standard that would be used to compare the situation of each Region in terms of effort, the millions of tonnes of oil equivalent. That's the quantity of money we used. Flanders used petajoules, Wallonia and the Brussels-Capital Region used the percentages according to the MMR Directive. The federal government was leaving millions of tons of oil equivalent. We put everything in that standard. We saw where everyone was and where we had to go in that standard, in absolute value. Flanders, moreover, had already proposed and again proposed that we should once and for all establish a key to the distribution between us. I don't know if everyone will accept that, because it's a corset. We do not know at all how each one will evolve on a path that is yet to be created, depending on a percentage of efforts still unknown. The lesson I learn is that we are really ready, in terms of negotiations between us. We are really ready on texts to create. But we are less prepared, and it will be more difficult, on the reality that will reflect the good intentions that we are going to express in the texts. I see you're sighing by saying, "What a case." I can be wrong, but that's what I see. Stop me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u60	Don't give me any intentions. I suggest you allow the replicas. So you will know what is happening, not to interpret what one or another thinks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u61	We're getting to know each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u62	That's the point. Sometimes you think you know people, but you have prejudices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u63	Minister, I take note of the scenario as explained, with the second agreement and the fact that CODECO gave its final approval this morning and that you are waiting for the last debt declaration with the Brussels Region deadlines. I assume that as soon as the file is administratively complete, you will simultaneously compensate all interested parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u64	But not the Brussels Region that wishes to be paid on January 30, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u65	You will make the first payment when all returns are returned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u66	I thank the minister for her answer, which I will analyze as much as it seems dense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u67	I thank the minister for all the elements of her response and for her transparency. I also congratulate her on the efforts made – perhaps with a little delay – so that payments can be honoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u68	Question No 14443 by Mrs Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u69	Madam President, for those who are interested and before other colleagues leave, I have with me the brochure that I distributed on the day of the press conference I made with Kris Peeters on the 21 measures in the circular economy. I still have a few copies for those who want to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u70	Madam President, Madam Minister, a year ago I tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at valuing the circular economy, which I hope will be quickly analysed in the committee. On 27 October, I was pleased to learn that you, in collaboration with the Minister of Employment and the Economy, had drawn up a roadmap with 21 measures to be put in place before 2019 to promote the circular economy in our country. Looking closer, however, some of these measures seem rather abstract. It is in fact a question of building up knowledge, developing a strategy, developing criteria, identifying opportunities, setting up guidelines, carrying out studies, allowing the setting up of reflections, seeking a possible strategy or evaluating the effectiveness of the use of resources. I agree that your objective is commendable, Madam Minister, but most of the measures sometimes look more like a catalogue of good intentions. In my view, the achievements that would contribute in a concrete and effective way to promoting, but above all, the implementation of the circular economy in our country are not very clear. Minister, apart from the fact that you have announced that your 21 measures will come into force before 2019, do you have a specific timetable that you could forward to us regarding the deadlines for the various actions envisaged? Is there a monitoring of the actual implementation of these actions? It is mentioned that several of these measures will be carried out with the assistance of external consultants. Have these consultants already been selected? If so, who are they? What budget is provided for their remuneration? Several other measures will be taken through expert round tables. Do you already know the experts who will be asked? Finally, you are announcing that studies show that the circular economy could eventually create 100,000 jobs in our country, which we welcome. How will your measures contribute in practice to the creation of these jobs? You should know, Madam Minister, that I would understand if you could not give me all the answers today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 21 measures to promote the circular economy are essentially the responsibility of the departments of the Economy and the Environment and constitute a first part of the federal contribution. As a first step, it seems appropriate not to involve departments other than the above-mentioned departments – which is why I did this press conference with Minister Peeters – and not to deal with biomass, in order to achieve an effective result on these 21 measures within a reasonable time. The Regions are also developing measures focusing on their competences in this area, including support for economic development, research, development, etc. The study I commissioned from the PwC consultant on the economic potential of the circular economy estimated that between 15 000 and 100 000 jobs could be created in this field in Belgium. Of course, in this respect, everything depends on the degree of political voluntarism at all levels. Of course, I do a parenthesis, politics is not responsible for everything. There are impulses that need to be given, but there are also things that are already doing very well in the economy. There are companies that have already been involved in these concepts for a long time and need to be supported. The creation of jobs in the circular economy is mainly the responsibility of the Regions. It is also up to the federal government to create conditions for this development and this is mainly the aim pursued through the 21 measures, while also saying that a great deal of political impetus can be given at European level. That is where things must continue to evolve. In June 2016, we received a European package in the circular economy, but that is where a lot is happening. If you want to design products that are demanable and reusable and contain as few harmful substances as possible or as few substances as possible that create waste that is not reusable thereafter, you must act as much as possible at the source. An incalculable number of standards that have an impact on our daily lives comes from Europe. The federal government also has a place in relation to product standards and commissioning, while the Regions are responsible for all matters relating to use and sale. A current monitoring of these actions will be carried out by the two administrations concerned (the environment and the economy). The first evaluation will take place at the end of 2017. The actions themselves, I have indicated them in the thematic brochure you have before you. She's a little technical, I'm saying right now, but she's going to be popularized. It first addressed a more academic and connoisseur audience at the press conference. This is the last question, so I would like to make an apartment, Madam President: for this press conference, we were on the Mozart boat on the canal in Brussels and we were following companies that already have a very deep operation in circular economy. We had with us on the boat connoisseurs of the reprocessing of waste that explained to us why, in a washing machine, it would have been better from now on to have a module that could be replaced, why such plastic bottle is not recyclable (because it is a plastic of the correct composition but golden by the manufacturer) and other things. With all this, you see clearly, through the institutional tree we know in our country but also through our participation in Europe, which institutional and regulatory floors are concerned. All of this must work together. As for these actions included in the brochure, the administration will launch a specification in compliance with the laws governing public procurement. It is not possible to say at this stage which consultants will be selected. We have allocated part of the existing budget in these two jurisdictions to these measures. The annual evaluation may take the names of the consultants and the budget allocated. We'll know it and you'll know it, I'll let you know. This budget is in the range of 300 to 400 000 euros for DG Environment. For DG Economy, I refer you to my colleague Kris Peeters. The round tables will bring together all the relevant stakeholders: the economic world, trade unions, NGOs, academics, Belgian officials. The administration also works extensively in networking with other Member States and the list of participants will naturally be adapted to each theme. I am at the beginning of the process but all the work on the road map and measures has been done. The concept is well in place and must now be put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic528x.u72	As I said at the outset of my question, I welcome the initiative that has been taken and the follow-up envisaged. I will analyse the answers given in the light of the motion for a resolution that I drafted a year ago. I will observe how the initiatives taken and the commitments made correspond to the wishes expressed in this motion for a resolution. If that happens, I'll come back to you.
