ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Jacky Morael, Minister of State, member of the House of Representatives for the electoral district of Liège from November 1991 to May 1994, died in Liège on 6 December. He was just 57 years old. Jacky Morael was born in Herstal on November 26, 1959. He was the son of a minor. At the Royal Athenaeus of Vottem, he had José Daras as professor of geography. Daras – co-founder of Ecolo in 1980 – introduced the young Morael to environmental management. After an application in philosophy and a bachelor's degree in communication sciences at the University of Liège, Jacky Morael first embraced the career of journalist and in 1981 became the political collaborator of José Daras who had been elected MP. Five years later, in May 1986, Jacky Morael became Federal Secretary of Ecolo, a position he held until November 1991 when he was elected a Member of Parliament. The brilliant young politician he was a negotiator of the Ecolo-Agalev Group in the "Dialogue from Community to Community" launched by then Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene in April 1992, a dialogue which would result in the St Michael Agreement a few months later, which transformed Belgium into a federal state. After the end of his term of office as MP, in May 1994, Jacky Morael again became Federal Secretary of Ecolo, together with Isabelle Durant and Jean-Luc Roland. Like no other, he wanted to take his party out of political isolation, which he also managed through his pragmatism and his keen insight: in June 1999 Ecolo won a major election victory. Ecolo joined the Federal Government, the French Community Government and the Walloon Region Government. Jacky Morael was very disappointed when his party's general assembly decided, against all expectations, not to award him a ministerial post in Guy Verhofstadt's rainbow government. And he suffered a much more painful setback a few weeks later, when his daughter Laurie died of meningitis at the age of 14. From June 1999 to April 2003, Jacky Morael sat in the Senate. In 2002, he was appointed Minister of State. After being held back from active politics for four years, Jacky Morael returned to the scene in early 2007. He helped his party define its line for the election campaign in June of the same year. He was himself a candidate on the Senate list. He embarked on this campaign with renewed courage despite his infirmity due to an unfortunate fall in his home in 2005. In the next election in June 2010, Jacky Morael was re-elected senator. Shortly after the end of his term of office, in September 2014, he published a book in which he repeated his creed: "L的utopie would be to believe that living as today could still last a long time". Driven by this conviction, Jacky Morael campaigned without despair in favour of ecological, democratic and social progress – three aspects that were inextricably linked to his eyes. His enthusiasm but also his ardour at work, his knowledge of the files and his ability to analyse and organize made him a respected politician of all. On behalf of the House, I presented our sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 December our country lost a brilliant and visionary politician. Jacky Morael, a historical figure of the environmental movement, succeeded in popularizing political ecology in the early 1990s. He propelled his Ecolo party on the front of the Belgian political scene. The Liègean, who was immensely fond of his city, began his political career very early on. With José Daras, his former geography teacher, with whom he had a sincere understanding, he founded Ecolo. His political intelligence became clear to everyone during his first co-chairship of the party between 1986 and 1991. During his second mandate, on the side of Isabelle Durant, between 1994 and 1999, he made a real revolution. At that time, the advocates of government participation were given the upper hand by the Greens. Shortly thereafter, Jacky Morael was extremely distressed by the tragic disappearance of his daughter. This terrible ordeal did not leave him unharmed. Six years later, he suffered a very bad fall and will remain physically diminished. Ladies and gentlemen, we are losing someone talented and committed. A man who was particularly respected across all party boundaries. He will forever be remembered as a striking figure of Belgian politics. On behalf of the government, I would like to extend our deepest condolences to his family, to his many relatives and to our colleagues in his political formation. We wish them much strength in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u5	Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for one moment? I would like to welcome in our hemicycle the Chairman of the Parliament of Montenegro and his ambassador. You will know that in due course of the evening we will have to decide upon Montenegro’s membership of NATO. I believe this will pass in our parliament without any notable problem. So, Mr. Chairman, welcome in the House and congratulations with your membership, that is going to happen soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u6	Mr President, I have tabled a question concerning the Consultation Committee. The Prime Minister is absent. That is why I have also submitted this question to the first appointed member of the Federal Government on that Consultation Committee, Mr Peeters. In fact, they were appointed by royal decree of 11 November 2014: as first member, Mr Peeters, then Mr Jambon, Mr De Croo, Mr Reynders and Mr Borsus. However, I note that my question has been referred to Mr Bellot. However, Mr Bellot is not a member of the Consultative Committee. Of course, I know Mr Peeters' sympathetic side. Now that he is here, I am sure he will want to answer my question. I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u7	Mr Vuye, you know better than I do that it is certainly not a new discussion. It's something that happens all the time. The answer will be just as well known to you. It is not because something is mentioned in the Consultative Committee that the Minister concerned is losing his powers. It is not because something is being said in the government or in the Council of Ministers, because the Prime Minister is also speaking to the President of the Council that the Minister concerned is losing his powers in this matter. I'll give you another word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u8	Mr President, it is clear that I know that answer. It is, however, entirely beside the issue here. The question does not concern the powers of the Minister or the way in which those powers of the Minister will be addressed in the Consultation Committee. It shall deal with the functioning of the Consultation Committee. So that's something completely different. In fact, Mr Bellot cannot answer that question. I'm sure he'll be here to read a pre-printed piece of paper. We will probably all have to settle for that; that is the way things are going here. Once again, it is actually a question of the functioning of the Consultation Committee. I would like to point out that several Members appointed to the aforementioned 2014 KB are here, in particular Mr Jambon, Mr Reynders and Mr Peeters, and that they do not seem to have the will or the courage to answer that question. Well, we note that. We note how great theater is your courage. It's a shame that courage is so small.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u9	Mr. Secretary, life is getting more and more expensive. People have to pay more and more, including for energy with the Turtel tax and the Tommeleintaks. They also have to pay 30% more for electricity. People therefore hope that wages will rise. After all, people are going to work to get a decent wage. The discussion over the last few days therefore focused on the question of how much wages will be able to increase next year. Tomorrow morning a decision will be taken at the Council of Ministers on the renewal of the 1996 law. A figure has now also been released by the Central Council for Business. In the press, the figure circulates from 0.9 to 1.2 % increase. My questions are very specific, Minister. Does the new 1996 law take account of the margin of 0.9 to 1.2 %? Is the buffer of 0.5 % already included in that 0.9 to 1.2? Has the €1 billion gift of reducing employers' contributions already been included in the percentage? Those are two specific questions about the standard itself. In addition, I note that many workers are subject to collective agreement No. Looking 90 for any raise. Governments in Belgium have for years decided that wages are problematically high. Is collective agreement no. 90 recorded in what you'll approve tomorrow morning? I come to my final question, something that interests all Belgians. Tomorrow morning, the government will approve the amendment of the 1996 law. Can you tell how much the difference is, based on the figures of the Central Council for Business, between the standard calculated by the former 1996 law and the standard calculated by the future renewed 1996 law? How many percent and how many euros will each Belgian lose tomorrow morning due to your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u10	Mr Hedebouw, you disappoint me for several reasons. First of all, I thought you were always defending the social partners in a straightforward manner. You are now very far removed from that principle. I do not know whether it fits in with your new ideology that, when it suits you, you should put the social partners aside. After all, what is the procedure? A technical report shall be drawn up by the representatives of both employers and employees in the Central Council for Industry. They shall make a proposal on the possible wage standard or wage margin for the years 2017-2018. That report goes to the Group of Ten, which is examining that report. If there is an agreement on that wage standard, it has always been the case so far that the government respects that agreement. So you are too early with your question. I have every confidence in the social partners. You have a little less of that in the dossier in question, which I regret. Secondly, you are well informed about the 1996 law. The item will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers tomorrow. I hope that tomorrow we will be able to approve both the new text and the text on manoeuvrable work. However, you are also mistaken about this. This gives a general framework. We're not setting the wage standard tomorrow. We are modernising the 1996 law tomorrow, so that it can continue to work in the future to close the 1996 gap with safety margins. If you read the legal text correctly, you would find that we are actually giving more opportunities to the social partners to give their own way to wage developments in the future. The Group of Ten has indicated that the new framework has not yet been adopted, but that it will work within that new framework. The Group of Ten is already looking into this. I hope, together with you, that the Group of Ten will conclude an agreement. An agreement would be very important for the dynamicization of social dialogue. Your last question was about collective agreement No. 90. If the social partners want to say something about this, they can do so. But at the moment we must show great restraint and trust that the Group of Ten will reach an agreement on wage developments on the basis of the law that will be adopted here in Parliament as soon as possible. I hope that at that time you will give your full support and vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u11	Minister, you pretend there is no connection between what you will decide tomorrow morning and the margin that will exist. Let's stop being a hypocrite. The changes are important. So that 0.5 % buffer is clearly in it. You are clearly saying that it is already being applied this year. With regard to all the gifts you have given, you are always talking about wage costs, but reducing social contributions. Why don't you take this into account in comparisons with other countries? Why don't you put all this in the comparisons? In Germany, there are wage increases of 4% in some sectors. Today, however, this government will decide on real wage dumping. You're dumping wages! Wait, what's this about? For 20 years, you've been telling... come on! Come on! Of course! Belgium is the only place where wages have fallen: minus 0.2%. For 20 years, since 1996, you have told the workers that the deficit and the wage gap have to be addressed. Now that we have achieved this goal, after 20 years of wage blockade, what do you come to say here? "No, that's not enough! We need to go even further!" Where will we stop? I'm telling you. That's clear. Wages are not the problem, wages are the solution. The entire planet has already understood that by compressing wages, the crisis was deepened. And you, what do you all decide together here? There's no problem! This is the crisis and we are continuing it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, please finish! You're still entitled to a sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u13	They are nervous as soon as we talk about the wages of the workers; slightly lower than yours, it is clear! I really hope that, in the coming weeks, the negotiations will revolve around a real wage increase and that we will not continue on the path of austerity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week we were reading in the media that the number of road accidents was falling. It's even at a minimum in our country. This is the result of joint efforts in recent years, both in terms of enforcement, mobility, police and security. It is a pity that we are now hearing the report that the Court of Cassation is taking a decision on traffic fines issued on the basis of license plate recognition, because apparently the police would not be authorized to check with the traffic services whose name is a license plate. This would have to do with the fact that since 2010, no exception has been granted to the police forces for obtaining that authorisation. For example, a number of police findings have now been compromised to deal with runners. Minister, you will agree with me that we must not allow that to happen. We must make every effort to ensure that this does not happen, because it would be a bad signal to those who have paid their fines properly and faithfully in the last few years when a violation is found. Minister, what exactly is the problem? Why wasn't a KB taken to clear the police forces, so to ask for permission to get that information? Will that authorization be obtained soon? Can we get it quickly, so at least for today the problem is solved? What happens to all the traffic offences that have been committed in recent years, which are still pending before police courts and are not yet statute of limitations? What is the effect of this ruling and of the fact that there was no authorisation or exception for those alleged offences? What solution do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u15	Minister, I can refer to Mr Lachaert's question. The recent figures on road safety may indeed give us good hope, but Belgium is still in the tail of the peloton in Europe. Road safety must remain an important priority and, of course, controls play a very important role in this. If these checks cannot be carried out because of a procedural problem, then we must respond very quickly. I have checked the legislation in this area. The problem of authorisation can be solved in two ways. It's incorporated into the law. Either an authorisation is requested or a royal decision is drawn up by the Minister which creates permanent access to the database. My questions are quite simple, Minister. Why hasn't that happened so far? How soon can this be resolved? Finally, what signal do we send today to motorists who drive on our roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u16	Minister, we were confronted with the news that thousands of traffic fines, mainly flash fines, would not be legal. We heard that news through a very recent judgment, the judgment of 13 December 2016 of the Court of Cassation. The reason why those fines would be unlawful is, according to the extract I read out, not to have an authorisation from the Federal Government Sectoral Committee to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. The first question that arises is whether something has gone wrong in the past and has caused problems for the police. Not just that question. Of course, questions now also arise for citizens about the validity of the pending fines, the pending proceedings. Questions also arise about the validity of future police action in relation to road safety. The police in the field will certainly have many questions, questions about their work. They simply want to do their job without having to face additional procedural problems. They also ask questions about the validity of their findings. I come to my questions, Minister. Is the problem facing us today a new situation? Or has this been going on longer? Have you taken certain measures in the meantime? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when yesterday we received the news of the judgments of the Court of Cassation, I immediately asked my services to examine the situation and see what is really going on here. Indeed, since 2003 the police have been lacking the authorisation to use data from the Crossroads bank of the vehicles. The law on privacy of 2003 stipulates that any federal government that wishes to use that data must have an authorisation to do so. Literally, Article 36 of that Act, which entered into force on 26 June 2003, states that, except in the cases determined by the King, any electronic communication of personal data by a federal government or by a public body with legal personality under the federal government requires a fundamental authorisation of this sectoral committee. That law was amended in 2010 following the creation of the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles. There it was confirmed that a public service, such as the police, needs such authorisation. Well, I have to admit that both in 2003 and 2010 the police failed to obtain that authorisation. A second element that can be added is the following. Those who manage the crossroads bank have also made that information available to the police and have not checked whether there was an authorisation. Before 2003 there was no problem. At that time, the data could be freely available. This morning, in cooperation with Mr De Backer, I thanked him for correcting that situation as quickly as possible. The police have filed an application this morning and the Sectoral Committee of the Privacy Commission is currently sitting, as we speak, together to consider that authorisation. Mr Lachaert, the demand for retroactivity is a little more complex. I do not have a clear answer to that at the moment. My services are working on that and we will make it known as soon as we can. In substance, I fully agree with Mr De Backer that we need to look at this whole piece of legislation on privacy and review it where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear that you and Mr De Backer will do the necessary together as soon as possible. We hope that this authorisation will be obtained so that, as of today, it is clear that there is no longer a problem for all citizens who are being flashed, that traffic offences can be identified and prosecuted. I understand that retroactivity is complex, but we really need to find a solution. We must send out the message that we will do everything we can to punish those who have committed infringements in the past. That is the only way to be fair and fair to those who have paid their fine. There are a number of ways we can do that. You said it yourself. An KB may be taken and applied retroactively, with an exclusion or an authorisation for the past. I hope that we will find such a solution. I also hope that the judges or the court will look with common sense beyond the license plate, in order to find sufficient evidence to deal with people who commit offences. It is a question of justice to treat them equally with those who have paid their fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the speedy intervention. It is a good thing that this problem is being addressed quickly and put right quickly. This is a strange situation. The lease car database can be used automatically today. Foreign DIVS do have access to the data of the license plates. There is no problem with violations from abroad, though inland. I think it is a good thing that this problem is getting rid of it very quickly. Three and a half million infringements per year are detected with camera screens based on the number plates. That's not nothing. It would be a good thing if there were a signal as soon as possible that this does not mean that everyone goes free if they are flashed. The privacy law may need to be amended, but in my opinion the legislation is clear today. In particular, it is important that the application is made, that the authorisation is obtained or that a KB is drawn up which automatically gives access to the database. I think this should be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and certainly for your firm and swift action in cooperation with your colleague. We look forward to an early solution. We are pleased that a strong signal is being given, because it is not allowed to give some people the impression that this judgment would be a safe way to press the accelerator now. Well, it certainly isn't. Whatever the hell I want, every traffic victim is one too many. A great deal of effort has been made in recent years, including Mr Weyts in Flanders, in order to reduce the number of road casualties on our roads. It should not be the case that all these attempts would be pointless or unsuccessful on procedural grounds. So we have to solve that and hope that there are fewer road victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u21	Mr President, Minister, more than five years have passed since Syria went down to hell. In Aleppo or elsewhere, in the face of so much violence, horror, in the face of so many cries of distress or agony, one feels anger, indignation, but also shame, the shame of impotence, the shame of being in our little comforts of life, in our miserable little bell-tower feuds, while a city has just been ravaged and torn before our eyes. We manage impotence as we can: one by testifying or protesting, the other by convoking images and words. The more powerless you are, the stronger the words chosen must be, as if they could make the Syrian mass grave forget. It is this impotence that I wanted to talk to you about ways to reduce our collective shame. A European summit is under way. Will Europe open the corridor of hope or be content with the words of emotion? I do not neglect the initiatives taken by Belgium. But beyond that, we learn that an evacuation is under way in Aleppo. The information is sounding in every direction. Some feel that everything is going well; others talk about shooting, shooting at ambulances, shooting at convoys. Do you have any information? What is Belgium's position on humanitarian corridors under UN control or under the control of independent European observers, for example? Aleppo is not the only martyr town. What is the position of our diplomacy, what is it going to defend in Europe, so that we are not together, nor are we divided, to defend the Syrian people facing both the horrors of Daesh and the regime of Bashar al-Assad? As Belgium is a candidate for the Security Council, its position is all the more important. Finally, Minister, in your soul and conscience, in the face of so much horror, do you not feel the indignity of a government that refuses to execute a court order and to issue a visa for one of these families calling for help?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u22	Minister, Aleppo's agony will have lasted five years. Day after day, we saw on the screens mostly civilians being bombed, without discrimination, in contradiction with all the rights of war, humanitarian law and the Geneva Conventions. Aleppo's agony is obviously due to the bombings of the Syrian regime and Russia, which participated in the carnage and allowed it. But Aleppo's agony is also linked to our indifference, our impotence, and your impotence, Minister, even if you are not the only one, of course. I am referring to the impotence of the Security Council, the European Union and even the most important Member States in the European Union. But this impotence and indifference are manifested by the absence of anger in our streets and demonstrations in front of the embassies directly involved in this carnage. But Belgium added to the impotence, the indecency of a discussion, derisory and quite incredible, by refusing a visa to a family that was trying to escape the fighting. Mr Minister, I would like you to tell me today that you are not resigned, that you are going to fight for the agony of the Syrian people to end, that we will finally find a way out of the tunnel, that war crimes will be prosecuted and punished, that humanitarian corridors will be opened, that we will take our share of the burden on refugees, that we will be able to ensure that terrorism and the Islamic State will be eradicated, and that never, ever, the tyrant Bashar al-Assad will be considered an ally or a partner at the end of this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u23	Like previous speakers, we do feel a sense of embarrassment. We realize that humanity has receded and sank into the ruins of Aleppo, like yesterday in Srebrenica, or in Rwanda during the genocide. And, each time, Europe launches some incantations but without any real effects. What is the certain position of the Belgian state vis-à-vis those in Europe who believe that Bashar al-Assad must once again become a political interlocutor, unless it is acceptable, at least tolerated, the time to negotiate a transition? I have always been one of those who thought like François Hollande who once had a strong statement in the UN rostrum arguing that Bashar al-Assad was not the solution but the problem. I would also like to point out a remarkable analysis of a journalist from the Lebanese daily L'Orient-Le Jour, Michel Touma, who, in a warning to François Fillon, reminded – I summarize his statement to not explicitly mention it – that it was Bashar al-Assad who, at the very beginning of the rebellion, freed thousands of jihadists so that they would radicalize the opposition to Bashar al-Assad to better justify, after that, his repression of the population and civilians. Let us not be mistaken, Bashar al-Assad conducted a calculation aimed at initially encouraging the Islamic State and its development, in order to better try to justify, after that, its role vis-à-vis the Islamic State and to find allies. First question: are you - I don't believe it, but I'm waiting for you to confirm it - in agreement with the Czech position that maintained, for example, an embassy in Damascus? Or do we remain with the other European states determined not to re-establish diplomatic relations with the Bashar al-Assad regime? Secondly, there will be humanitarian work and the organization of the corridor to allow the evacuation of civilians. When, then, will the European Union have the will to make it clearer to Russia, which is playing a dangerous role in this part of the world, that sanctions will possibly be even heavier on it if it continues to be the ally of the regimes that are busy undermining the entire Mediterranean basin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u24	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the evacuation of thousands of citizens from the city is under way in Eastern Aleppo. Aleppo has been under attack for years by the Syrian army, the Russian army and the warring rebels. Journalists do not have free access to that area, and there are even reports that people are being executed at liberation, that accounts are being made and that convoys and ambulances are being shot at. Seeing all that footage, I'm ashamed. We should be collectively ashamed of the human dramas that are currently taking place in Aleppo. People live there in a permanent war situation and have no food. Today, a European Summit will be launched to discuss the hopeless state of the Middle East. Our country was in the front row to carry out bombings in the region. Will our country also be at the forefront today to show a humanitarian heart, now that the human damage of the war has become so visible? The evacuation operation that is now under way needs observers from the European Union and UN escorts. We have learned lessons from Rwanda and Sarajevo, haven't we? We must provide assistance so that food, medicines and other relief products can be delivered to Aleppo. We must not close our eyes to this abomination. These are people in acute need. And then there will have to be a plan to rebuild the city of Aleppo. People have a right to hope and a right to a future. Otherwise, and rightly so, they will continue to flee to a place where it is safer. Given the geopolitical interests and the hardening of the positions of many world leaders, we Europeans are obliged to take the lead. We must go through the fire to defend human rights, which we laid down after 1945, also for the people of Aleppo and in Syria. So, Minister, I have the following questions. What efforts have you made over the last few days and what position will you take at the European Summit to ensure that observers are present on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u25	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Bashar al-Assad has won Aleppo by making Aleppo a cemetery. Bachar ensured his political survival by reducing his opponents to silence through the assassination. Today, in Aleppo, Shiite militias allied with Iran are busy completing the work of Syrian aviation and, above all, Russian aviation. They made Aleppo a pile of ruins, but above all a pile of bodies. The political consequence of this is the radicalization of what remains of the Sunni populations of Aleppo. And that is the absolute horror for us, Democrats. These massacres of Russia and the Syrian regime will throw what remains of political opponents of Bashar al-Assad into the arms of the Islamic State. This is a problem that we will have to deal with later, as Europeans and Democrats. Unfortunately, we must all note that diplomacy and politics are not able to offer a solution and stop this massacre. In this context, we still have our eyes to cry, but also our arms and our houses, all things that a family in Namur had wished to offer to a family in Aleppo. I have two simple questions, Minister. A European summit is under way in Brussels. Will you request the activation of this temporary protection clause to create a real humanitarian corridor? This would be accompanied by temporary protection for those people who are now suffering in Aleppo. In the absence of a visa, since we have understood that one of your colleagues refused to grant it, will you grant a pass to the four members of this Syrian family who, today, are at risk of dying under the weapons of the Shiite militias currently present in Aleppo?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u26	Aleppo and its inhabitants are living a real ordeal, under the continuous shelling of Bashar al-Assad's troops, his Iranian substitutes or Hezbollah, obviously well aided by Russian aviation. The ratio of military forces in Syria seems to shift definitively to the advantage of Bashar al-Assad's power. The diplomatic process is at a standstill, with the announcement - denied - of the resignation of Mr Staffan de Mistura. The issue of impunity in this war is also an important one. But today, a humanitarian tragedy is taking place, to which we must respond. The information goes in every direction, many have already said so. I therefore consider it essential to ask you a few questions. Minister, is there a ceasefire, even a partial one, in Aleppo, for certain areas or neighbourhoods? Has the evacuation of civilians really begun? It was expected that she would start Tuesday night before being delayed. It could have started this morning, we don't know too much about it. Can we hope for the presence of United Nations observers on the spot to ensure this evacuation? Will international humanitarian organizations, such as the Red Cross and UNICEF, be able, with minimum security, to assist these civilians in camps outside the city? Has Belgium been asked to provide humanitarian aid to the inhabitants of Aleppo, knowing that in 2016 we provided €65 million for Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u27	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Aleppo is on strike. This city was actually a symbol of the revolution against the regime that started five years ago. At that time, it was also a revolution for freedom. But the revolution turned into death and destruction, on hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties and people fleeing. The regime, but also the rebel groups, have these victims on their consciences. We are all standing here today to express our indignation, although I would almost say that we are not in power. The cynical thing is that we have actually seen this coming for years. The cynical thing is that we know what follows after the bombings and after the street fights, especially a cleansing. Ladies and gentlemen, it is painful to see that we have not really learned anything from Rwanda, from former Yugoslavia and other massacres or civil wars. It is painful to find that again so many red lines have been crossed without anyone taking any real action. The United States of America has refused to act. With the new president, I don't think that's gonna change. The divided Europe could not even act. Meanwhile, other geopolitical players eagerly jumped into the vacuum. I would ask you to consider that. Putin, Erdogan, Iran and even terror groups have eagerly used that vacuum. It was Turkey that facilitated a ceasefire around Aleppo yesterday. What an embarrassment for the European Union! Minister, our country has tried to help improve the situation on the ground. Our F-16-year-olds have been tackling ISIS. We've intervened in the military. Minister De Croo gave 65 million in humanitarian aid in and around Syria this year. But as valuable as these contributions are, Belgium will never be able to resolve that conflict alone. We need a strong European foreign policy, with a corresponding defence policy. A European Summit is taking place today. What will be the role of the European Union in creating humanitarian corridors for aid workers and fleeing citizens so that this humanitarian tragedy can stop? Secondly, a question I have already asked you: what initiatives will our country take to promote a stronger foreign and defence policy in the area of the Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the end of the year is coming. The Christmas tree is already in our coffee room, but, frankly, I'm not in the mood for it. The photos of dead children in Aleppo are too gruesome and the testimonies of doctors on the scene are too poignant. Those doctors have no equipment, no medication, and they don't know which patient to start with first. As a human being and as a politician, one can either look away or try to help. When will Belgium actually try to help? When will the passivity of our foreign policy on Syria end? Why do we not call on the ambassadors of Russia and Iran in Brussels? A country like the Netherlands is planning to do that. Any political, diplomatic pressure can only help in relation to countries bombing the civilian population. Why do we not contact a country such as Turkey, for example, to provide our logistical and financial support in organising humanitarian corridors to evacuate people from Eastern Aleppo and enable aid? Why do we not call for a strengthening of sanctions against Russia? Russia has clearly crossed a red line. If we behave like weaklings, we will also be treated like this by Russia. So we are too passive, ladies and gentlemen, except for one point. Over the past few days and weeks, this government has focused its attention on preventing a humanitarian visa from being issued to a family stuck in Aleppo and to whom protection could indeed be provided. And why, for God's sake? Can someone give a rational reason, a rational argument not to seize the opportunity to protect one family from Syria? The government even wants to shift it to a country like Lebanon, where 1.5 million Syrian refugees are already sitting on a population of 4.5 million people. There are legal proceedings and the government has the right to appeal. But why didn't we just issue that visa at first? I think the solution is to shift everything to a country like Lebanon, which does not even recognise the refugee convention, brutally and cynically, and I am deguised by it when I see the horror of war on my television screen every day. I would like to ask one more question, especially to the majority of my fellow Members. If there are applications today for a humanitarian visa for families stuck in Syria, will our country now, at this time, do its part?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can have this debate in plenary today. The drama in Aleppo has been here for a few years. Belgium, like the European Union, particularly through its diplomacy, has been acting for several years. We have supported the opposition through multiple contacts, but also through means at its disposal. We first - and this has been recalled - decided to participate in a military coalition in Iraq, and then to extend the mission of our F-16s to Syria. I would like to point out that no one, no matter what the tragedy Aleppo is experiencing, has been in favour of our military intervention on the ground. No one! And when it comes to European intervention, the approach is the same in all European countries. The possibility of supporting the actions of the rebel forces on the ground was sought, but the idea never came from ground intervention. I would also like to recall that in 2015, Belgium issued 282 humanitarian visas. More than 240 people were evacuated from rebel-held areas. These people joined our country through our embassy in Beirut. I will not go back to the current procedure. Today, many procedures are under way for a family application. I would like to point out here that this family has visited Beirut on several occasions, that contacts have been made by our diplomacy. It can be welcomed to Lebanon. If there is a real security tragedy, security can be ensured in Lebanon, especially since, on the humanitarian level, we are helping the countries around Syria. I would point out that there has been much debate, including in this House, as to whether or not to intervene, through the direct means of the European Union, in the context of the reception of refugees in Turkey. We do. We're in Jordan. We are also intervening in Lebanon. The solution is there for a number of people, now evacuated. If they so wish, there is a possibility of access to Lebanon. Secondly, the situation has got worse today and in a few weeks and days. The responsibility lies not only with the Bashar al-Assad regime but certainly also with Russia and Iran. That's done and clear. Mr De Vriendt, we have already taken a number of initiatives in this area. We support several countries, including France, in a resolution within the United Nations Security Council. That was always impossible on the basis of a veto from Russia and sometimes from China. We have also said that it is possible to send observers, but that also requires a decision by the Security Council. It may be possible to do a little more at European level today through a proposal for European observers. I repeat that this requires an agreement within the United Nations Security Council. We have always supported all the initiatives of the European Union. I repeat that I instructed our ambassadors in Moscow and Tehran to go to the government. Once again, much of the responsibility lies with Russia and Iran. We need a real ceasefire in Aleppo today. It is true that we have repeatedly reiterated that this is the only way to be able to intervene in practice on the ground. Mr Dewael pointed out that Turkey had taken an initiative to reach a possible ceasefire. Since today, there's been an opportunity to evacuate. We have heard from the Red Cross that it is possible to provide some 20 buses, especially for those with a real health problem. A number of wounded and ill people are being evacuated for the time being. The information is all the more accurate since the mayor of Aleppo-Est is currently in Brussels. It is received at the level of the European Council and attempts are made to see with it how best to organise evacuation and humanitarian aid on the spot, in particular and according to the information to be confirmed, for serious injuries. The wounded are evacuated to the part of the city occupied today by the regime's troops and some of them will be taken, if they so wish, to other areas under rebel control. Last year, we have already welcomed a number of people with humanitarian visas and direct reception is also possible in neighbouring countries, as verified by our diplomacy, including where families have visited Beirut and Lebanon. However, in the face of the tragedies of civilians today in Aleppo, our country is ready to participate not only in a number of diplomatic initiatives, but also in the initiatives that will probably be proposed earlier by the European Union in humanitarian terms. There is already EUR 65 million in aid for the reception of refugees in neighbouring countries, but it may be possible to do more. There are several discussions on corridors. That's also a possibility. But once again, this must be done with the consent of the United Nations Security Council. Without that permission, it's almost impossible to move on. Finally, I would like to say that we have also supported initiatives and not just on the ceasefire. With 122 other countries, we went through the UN General Assembly to ask for a ceasefire in Aleppo, but we also asked - and Lichtenstein has just taken an initiative that we immediately supported, along with others - that we collect a number of evidence in Aleppo, because there can be no impunity for what is happening today and that we call human rights violations. We can probably talk about war crimes and probably worse. Therefore, at the level of the international community, beyond aid, there must also be a capacity to combat that impunity. There is therefore an ongoing initiative, which we support, to establish an international judicial system in this particular case. We will see in what form, but it is hoped that the General Assembly will be able to take a decision. Finally, we will have to continue to seek a political solution. I would like to repeat, if it is necessary, Mr Maingain that already in 2012, I had the opportunity to say, at the meetings between the Friends of the Syrian People, that when we take the path of barbarism, we do not turn it back and that, therefore, the executioner of his people will not be able to be part of the solution. It is also clear that the transition is being negotiated with representatives of the regime. This has been the case in every negotiation in Geneva. It is impossible to put a transition in place otherwise. That being said, I repeat, we have not only said from the outset that it was not possible for the current President to play a role in the solution for his country tomorrow, and we have participated in initiatives so that we can imagine prosecution of him, as well as of a number of other officials in charge of the regime. That being said, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I understand the sense of helplessness that many may have. That does not prevent us from acting. This does not prevent us from being present in every stage of the tragedy that people are experiencing today, not only in Aleppo, but in other cities in Syria as well. But in order to put an end to this conflict situation, a number of actors in the conflict must agree to participate in the solution. So far, this has never been the case with the regime; it was very rarely the case with both Russia and Iran. We will therefore continue to advocate not only for progress towards a ceasefire and direct humanitarian aid, but also for a genuine overall political solution in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u30	Minister, thank you. You are right to recall the initiatives taken by Belgium. There is no question here of challenging it, but we know that this is only a small step and that concerted action at European level is essential if we are to be able to truly weigh it. As you have said, it is a matter of influencing conflict management and humanitarian aid through the corridors of hope, but we must also prevent any impunity. Therefore, I wholeheartedly support this idea of pleading for the trial of these crimes against humanity. It's obvious to me. I therefore hope that the European summit - whether it is to intervene in the political conflict, to support humanitarian aid or to refuse impunity for the horrors committed there - will speak out loud. Remember that at the UN, Ban Ki-moon, noting this impotence, said: "History will not absolve us easily". Europe should not say the same thing. On the other hand, of course, I do not agree with you in your comments on the reception of refugees. I think it is cynical to say: "They only have to go to Lebanon. We will help them." Does Lebanon not already provide an excessive effort? For the time being, refugees were coming in large numbers and were confined to camps where the health situation, in particular, was unacceptable. Our only answer to a court decision is to say: "We do not take this family, which only has to go to Lebanon". I find this indecent and regret that you have not washed out the outrage that the Belgian government has inflicted on courage, solidarity and, quite simply, on humanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u31	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have tried to justify yourself by saying, "We have acted". No one has disputed the fact that you and others have acted, but the fact is that it is a terrifying failure for Europe, for our diplomacy, for our values. And it is a failure that is also very costly for Europe, because this conflict obviously has regional consequences, but also global consequences that are now obvious. It is not just about the security of Syrians, it is about our own security. We have to make that observation. You said, no one wanted to send men to the field. No one really wanted to act to stop this conflict. We didn't really try to stop him. As long as we don't really try to stop him, he will continue, and we will suffer all the consequences. On the other hand, I welcome your proposal, along with others, to establish a mechanism to counter impunity. It's extremely important. I expect you to follow this proposal very concretely. On the rest, on these famous visas, what I blame you above all, and what I reproach your government, is for allowing this totally odious and indecent discussion to continue; for having therefore obscured the real reality of the Syrian tragedy; for having initiated this debate. It was much more fundamental, much more important to have a debate on how we could, with our capabilities, with our resources, alleviate the suffering of the Syrian people a little bit. And why not, alongside the 282 visas we have granted, grant three or four more visas? Why was this not possible? Simply because it served the political game of one of your government allies. Thanks to this, he could bounce back in populism and in a totally inappropriate and indecent political discussion on the backs of Syrian victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I will not hide my displeasure. For what you have reminded us - and I give you the credit for having had some strong comments at certain times - is that finally Europe leads the diplomacy of managing the consequences of the dramas. But it no longer has the capacity or the will to carry out the political action of the prevention of tragedies. Because Europe does not want to ask itself the real question and dare not face it, namely the relationship with Russia. It is Russia today that is playing a detestable role at the gates of Europe, ultimately destabilizing our part of the European continent. Recently, on 1 December, Vladimir Putin issued a decree, some of which considered that he was recovering from the cold war because of his conception of foreign policy and, in particular, his relations with Europe. I know very well that the voice of Belgium alone will not be able to awaken all the wills in the European Union. But it is time to have a surge of conscience to know what is threatening us in Europe when there is a coalition of strong powers in place, from Russia to Iran, to support the most oppressive regimes at the gates of Europe. That's the danger. On the part of the European Union, there is no response to the extent of this danger. So what? When we say we want humanitarian corridors, a humanitarian corridor that stops on the border with Lebanon, it is not even worth calling itself a humanitarian corridor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u33	Minister, some in this hemisphere have participated in a television programme in which the path of a war fugitive has been taken. They will know that it is no pleasure to pay money to a smuggler of human beings, that it is not pleasant to see children walking along barbed wire and borders with their parents, and to see people who are hungry and have no future. I understand, Minister, that this government also sees the urgency. You will be defending strong positions at the European Summit. I sincerely hope that these views will also provide humanitarian solutions, Minister. Europe must now demand European observers. That's what one has to do. One has to straighten one's back. If that does not happen, then history will strongly and rightly condemn us for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u34	Minister, good news: the crimes committed will not go unpunished, you said. There will be a form of collation of horrors and it is a step in the right direction. You talked about the fact that Belgium has invested, through the action of our F-16s, in Iraq and Syria. Mr. Maingain spoke about the causes and consequences. The cause of the emergence of Daesh in Syria is the fact that the Syrian regime oppresses and puts aside the vast majority of Sunnis. If we do not politically regulate the future of Sunnis in Syria, we will not solve the problem of Daesh, which is our concern here and there. I think, for example, that signing military agreements between Russia and the six coalition countries in 2015 is not a step in the right direction because it reinforces Daesh's speech. On the question of refugees, I ask our colleagues in the majority to reflect, not as politicians trying to search for the lost and passed electorate to the Vlaams Belang, but as humans. What the mayor of Aleppo East will tell you soon is that he wants visas, he wants passes, he wants humanitarian corridors that go from Syria to the European Union, not necessarily to Lebanon. This is what you must do, in the name of humanity, ours and theirs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u35	Minister, you were talking about the Liechtenstein initiative that Belgium wants to join. I think that this is a step in the right direction and we will have to shed light on all these horrific crimes that have been committed in Aleppo for the past five years. My colleague Maingain was talking about the European surge of conscience. I see two origins. First of all, the lack of awareness in the European Union, although each country tries to help the people in distress as best it can with the diplomatic and humanitarian means at its disposal. This surge of consciousness should probably have taken place at European level if Europe had been stronger. As I have said on several occasions, the European Union must be able to speak with one voice in external relations and defence. We have talked about the differences in the new East-West relations that are emerging and that do not allow many good things to be predicted. We must take our destiny into our own hands at European level in order to be able to help people in distress and to be heard about the defence of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is politically and intellectually incorrect to mix the debate on what needs to be done in relation to Syria and Aleppo with the individual case of that family. That is politically and intellectually incorrect. So, Mr Calvo, spare me your selective indignation. I don't have to get lessons from anyone in that regard, or nobody's got to kick my conscience. I do not need selective indignation, nor do I want to participate in a process of selective soothing your conscience. You know perfectly well that if we talk about one visa...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u38	Why are we only talking about one visa? Why are we not talking about two visas, or three, ten, twenty visas? Why are we not talking about 50 000 visas for all those involved in that besieged city? No, you're going to make a choice and you're saying that with one case, your conscience is actually selective. So I'm not in on that! For individual visas, the same applies as for individual regularisations. I have done so for six years and I often asked the question: why one, why not two, why not ten or why not a hundred? Where's the border? No one could ever give me an answer to that. We must respect the rules of law and the government has the right and duty to exercise the remedies. You know perfectly well you can't do that. You're kidding people. You also know perfectly well that we have to solve the problem there in the region. However, there was a political consensus to strengthen the European Union there and to respond to the international community. Mr President, someone said that the only lesson we can learn from history is that people do not learn from history. Let us prove, as far as the future of Syria and Aleppo is concerned, that things can and must be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u39	Minister, I think we are living in a new reality in this world. If our Belgian diplomacy continues to wait for a joint agreement between the 28 Member States of Europe or for an agreement by the Security Council, then we are lame. We must look for our own levers that we can put on the table with our own Belgian diplomacy. I have just made some suggestions to that effect, for example following the Dutch example. Mr Dewael, what Belgium can do perfectly, without waiting for the UN Security Council, is show solidarity and, to a fair extent, take care and protection of war refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u40	It happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u41	You're referring to Lebanon. I have just said that Lebanon is receiving 1.5 million Syrian refugees. Do you know how many Syrian refugees have been receiving our country during the conflict that has been going on for five years? I will tell you: 12 414 Syrian refugees in total, up to 0,1% of our population. We are not calling for selective indignation, but for the inclusion of a piece of protection and care. It is true that we cannot do everything, but we can take a fair part. That will not happen, however. That is why I say start today and give that visa to the one family from Aleppo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u42	Mr Minister, it was the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr Erdogan, who once put the following sentence on paper at a time of passion: our mosques are our barracks, the domes of the mosques are our shields, and the minarets of our mosques are our bayonets. With this, Erdogan perfectly indicated what the actual content he gave, and which also gives Islam, to a mosque. It is not only a place of worship, but also a barracks, a base, an outpost, a stronghold, for spreading their ideas. This applies the Diyanet network, which is organised, managed and financed by the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs, also in practice. This letter, sent by the Diyanet network in Turkey, instructs 68 Diyanet mosques in Belgium to spy here. It is difficult to read in Turkish, Mr President, but I will quote a few things from it. Among other things, this letter states that information must be collected about anti-Turkish activities in our country. That's what the mosques do. Abroad, the mosques received the same letter from the Diyanet. They do that actively. Three such reports have already been intercepted in Germany when they were sent to the Turkish Government. There's being spied on by the Diyanet mosques in our country! Mosques which are partly recognized by the Flemish and Walloon authorities, and which are subsidised by tax money from Flemings, Walen and Brusselsers. In the meantime, it's come to that. The security of the state doesn't know anything. Or maybe you do, tell us. Minister, at the Flemish level, the Minister in question, Mrs Homans, says that she has asked you to carry out an investigation on this matter through the security of the State. So I would like to hear from you the extent to which you are aware of these espionage activities and what their consequences are. For me, the consequences are very clear. First, close the 68 Diyanet mosques in our country. Disable the Turkish imams involved who have been appointed by Diyanet. Call on the Turkish ambassador and tell him that this kind of practice in our country has never been able, cannot and will never be tolerated!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u43	Minister, this is the first time I have referred to Turkey, but the subject has been raised on several occasions. I am perhaps not the only one in this Chamber who was addressed by people from the Turkish diaspora about the increasing pressure being exerted directly or indirectly from Ankara, in order to disrupt relations in our own country, and in connection with conflicts from Turkey, we have often talked about exporting them to communities that live with us. This week, an element was added, namely the use, via the Diyanet, of mosques which, as far as the Turkish community is concerned, are directly related to Ankara and the Ministry of Religious Affairs operating there. It goes without saying, Minister, that a call has just been quoted, in which it is really asked that one citizen in this country should spy on another and that one citizen would indicate the other for political reasons, absolutely and radically incompatible with our way of life. You have instructed the Muslim executive to engage in the process necessary to integrate the training of imams..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Diyanet is therefore also in conflict with the Muslim executive. The Diyanet does not accept that approach. This means that the path you have taken is the right one in the long term. Those activities are also carried out abroad, in Germany and the Netherlands, for example, there are sufficient indications that I am obliged to ask you whether the State's security gives the appropriate priority to following up on this specific dossier. I also refer to the elements I mentioned earlier, namely Ankara's general approach to drag people into a domestic Turkish political problem and to turn our society into a society of people who turn each other in turn, who are watching each other and would, as it were, become each other's enemies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u44	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, Mr De Roover, first of all let me say that during the recent trip to Turkey with several members of the government, as minister responsible for the services of honour, I tried to establish diplomatic contacts with the Diyanet. I also had a similar exchange of views with the chief representative of the Diyanet in Belgium as a result of the new rules on recognition of the Executive. Those relationships are correct and clear, but also necessary. As you say, it is absolutely essential that no foreign conflicts are imported into our society because this does not in any way benefit the integration of these communities. It is intended that the Turkish Belgians are primarily Belgians and not an island of Turkey in our country. As far as the security of the State is concerned, I can assure you that it is following the problems of Turkey in general and the problems of the Diyanet, in particular, very closely and for the benefit of the Minister of Justice, but also of all the relevant ministers, such as the competent ministers of the regions, when it considers that this is necessary. Since the political evolution of the last few months, we have received several reports from the Security of the State. I believe that we in Belgium have a responsibility at all levels, and certainly at federal level, to monitor closely the funding of religion and Islam religion in Belgium. I have dedicated this to my services, both of the security of the state and of the public prosecutors, and there is plenty of attention to be paid to them. The regions should, in their own way and in their place in the recognition of mosques, do what is their responsibility ex ante and ex post in order to follow the accounts as closely as possible. That is my answer, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u45	Minister, you are a civilized, gentle and highly educated man, but your answer is unfortunately meaningless. I very much regret that, because this is a serious matter. It is a foreign power that commands the mosques under its direct control and funding to spy through a letter you know in our country, to register all anti-Turkish activities and to transfer them to the Ministry of Religious Affairs in Turkey. That is the reality. It's here in black and white. You know the writing. The Security of the State knows the writing. You are giving us an answer that doesn't make any sense, that is unclear, that doesn't make any sense. I expect you to act on this. I expect you to perform. The Diyanet Mosque, all 68, are the outposts of Erdogan in our country, who are spying here and God knows what else to do with the totalitarian and fundamentalist thought of the Turkish dictator named Erdogan. We cannot and must not tolerate that. There are organisations, parties and politicians, including myself, who are being watched more closely and punished more severely than the way in which you deal with this subversive and state-dangerous organization that is the Diyanet in our country in the end. I cannot tolerate that, and many citizens with me, and I cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u46	There have already been regular debates on Muslim extremistism. I think this is actually about Turkish imperialism. There's a mixture of both. This means that we are talking here about the interference of a foreign government in the lives of citizens who are supposed to live with us. You know that Minister Homans must acknowledge mosques or withdraw recognition. I can count on you to cooperate with her. You have also indicated this so that she will take appropriate measures when that recognition is absolutely inappropriate. You know that we are pursuing a policy of training imams, rather than importing them, in our own country. That is probably the reason why people at the Diyanet are very unhappy with the evolution that we have in it. We have just debated a conflict in the Middle East. I would like to stress, however, that it is of the utmost importance that we ensure that Erdogan's long arm cannot under any circumstances reach into our cities and our communities. Erdogan's long arm has caused enough misery in Turkey itself. We must not tolerate him doing so here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot hide my concern. The quality and accessibility of our health care is at risk. We keep repeating this, and this is still being confirmed today: the abolition of maternity and paediatric services from the Lobbes hospital, the abolition of maternity and paediatric services from the Nivelles hospital, the abolition of emergency mobility and resuscitation services from the Tubize hospital. One example is that the Jolimont Hospital Group needs to reorganize its services and activities to deal with the reforms envisaged by your government and the savings imposed in the health care sector. These savings amount to more than 900 million in 2017, or one third of the effort to be made. The measures are already on the table: 92 million directly on the backs of hospitals. You have already clearly put a series of measures on the table: abolition of funding for active dressings, abolition of more than 4,000 approved beds, abolition of neonatology, intensive care, maternity and emergency services. If rationalization and restructuring continue to increase in the coming months, they will still have enormous and dramatic consequences for patients, as well as for workers in institutions and hospitals. Many will lose their jobs. They are about thirty, for Lobbes Hospital, to fear for their employment. Lobbes Hospital is a human hospital in a sparsely populated and extensive rural area. Minister, I invite you to question the matter. Various cuts in services have already been announced as part of the savings to be achieved, measures decided in haste and not yet specified. However, some hospitals are already anticipating these measures. Minister, on what basis will these closures be decided? What activity thresholds are you going to impose on them? How many neonatology, intensive care, maternity and emergency services do you intend to eliminate in the coming months? Do you intend to do what is necessary to preserve community-based hospital care, which is essential in the most rural areas of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u48	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, by your question, you give me the opportunity to correct the misinformation that has been made. With regard to initiatives within the Jolimont Group, I would like to make it clear. At present, these closures are by no means the result of formal decisions by me. Obviously, it is the Jolimont group that has chosen to make this decision, a decision that was taken a long time ago, as demonstrated by the inauguration last month of their new maternity in La Louvière, which allowed us to... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u49	Let the minister speak. Go on, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u50	I have no idea where this minimum number of 800 births per year comes from, which are cited in the publication. The current standard is 400 births per year and the Royal Decree stipulating this standard is dated 30 January 1989. At the time, Minister Busquin was responsible for this royal order. The hospital in Lobbes had 330 births a year, less than one delivery every 24 hours. As far as the maternity of Nivelles is concerned, the current standard of 400 births per year is also not met, as explained in the press release of the Jolimont group. The accreditation standards for maternity leave require that a sufficient number of midwives and trained and trained personnel must be present at maternity leave in order to be able to ensure a 24-hour and 7-day period. Taking into account the fact that, on average, there is not even one delivery per 24 hours, the least we can say is that this is a completely ineffective use of public resources. With such a low number of births, the providers only acquired expertise... Mr President, may I conclude because I have been interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u51	I'll give you ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u52	Mr. President, this is important. The Jolimont Group's initiatives are based on the current regulatory framework. However, concentrating their maternity services in fewer facilities will make it possible for them to organize mother and child care in a much more efficient and quality manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u53	Minister, I'm even more worried than before I asked you. How do you think we can make 4 billion savings by 2019 without any damage in hospitals? It's unimaginable! Why are hospital groups forced to make arrangements such as this one that – I imagine – are far from pleasant? Simply to anticipate these measures that are of great concern to them. I really invite you, Madam Minister, to reconsider your position. Next week, a delegation of hospital workers will come to meet you. Listen to the arguments of these workers. They're not light. These workers really have things to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u54	Minister, you are also responsible for combating tax fraud. I have seen in the 2017 budget that you have entered an additional EUR 175 million in revenue from tax fraud. I also see that there is no new measure against that amount. We will have the debate on this in the next week. In 2016, there was one important moment when the fight against tax fraud came to light. That was early April 2016 with the worldwide Panama Leaks on international tax avoidance circuits. The indignation here in Parliament was great. It was so great that Parliament felt that a special Panama Commission should be set up. The indignation was also great with the government, which decided to make a Panama plan. Mr Minister, I would like to talk about that plan. One of the measures in the Panama Plan is the posting of 15 tax officials to the Justice Department. This means doubling, which underlines the importance of the measure. The measure is also important because it gives our Justice the power to bring the relevant cases to court if necessary. We're eight months later today. In order to implement that measure, a simple royal decision by the Minister of Finance is needed. Eight months later, that royal decree isn't there yet. I read that your spokesperson refers to other ministers on the subject, namely Minister Vandeput and the Minister for the Budget, because you would wait for their signature. Eight months later, one is necessary, simple royal decree is not yet available. I would like to remind you of another measure. Panama would be placed on the list of countries that belong to the tax havens. Minister, we are eight months later. The measure presupposes a simple royal decision. That simple royal decision you have to make is still not there. In short, the things you should have done and which you promised to do are not here today. So, Minister, my question to you is simply next. Why don't you do what you have to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u55	Mr Vanvelthoven, the government is making a sensitive effort to combat tax fraud. When I proposed my plan to combat tax fraud, I remember that you were quite enthusiastic about it, that you welcomed it and that you were in favour of it. Others have expressed scepticism. What is reality today? At the moment, 30 measures of the anti-fraud plan are in progress or have been implemented. I will not list the whole list again: the strengthening of the BBI, the targeted further investment in data mining, the extension of the investigation periods, the obligation for financial institutions to report tax arrangements, the considerably increased control of transfer pricing and so on. Indeed, as part of the Panama package, it was also decided to double more than double the number of tax officials made available to the Justice Department from 15 to 33. However, in order to implement that measure, much more is needed than a simple KB. A number of procedures should be followed to obtain the necessary opinions and approvals. I'll give you the chronology of the facts. You must be careful not to confuse elements in that timeline. In fact, there is an initial draft of KB which regulates the modalities in itself when officials of the tax administrations are made available to the Justice Department. That design of KB has gone through its procedure. On 22 April this year, the Council of Ministers decided to increase the number of fiscal officials seconded to Justice. Then, on 22 June, the Justice Department indicated how these additional officials should be deployed. Following the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate in July 2016, the opinion of the Budget and Civil Service Ministers was also requested. In the meantime, I have heard from both my fellow Members that there are no objections and that we can proceed quickly to the entry into force of the measures. You also mentioned the measure to include Panama on the list of tax havens. That list is currently being worked on at European level. I think it is very useful to wait for it to be fully involved, so that we can tackle the problem at European level, rather than on an isolated Belgian level, which is always a lot less obvious than at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u56	Minister, you confirm that nothing has happened. You confirm that nothing has happened on Panama. You can be sad about that, because that is indeed something to be sad about. Apparently, it takes eight months to get the advice of two fellow Members, whom you see every week. It is unlikely that it will take that long, especially because it is an important measure. The fact that Panama is still not on the list of tax havens: the government had the programme law adopted here in July in order to do so. You did not ask to wait because Europe had to act first. The government has presented us with a draft law and we have approved it with enthusiasm. The only thing that is missing is a KB of the Finance Minister, and he leaves that behind. Today, he says very nicely in Parliament that this will be regulated at European level and that Belgium will not take care of it on its own. You are mistaken, Minister. Panama urgently needs to get on that list so that our Justice and Finance Department could investigate tax fraud towards Panama thoroughly. This is negligence on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u57	Mr Minister, this morning you were asked a question about the budgetary impact of the redesignation of the state and the related consultancy costs. I understand that the question was passed on from one to the other. She was first sent back to your colleague, Mr Vandeput, and then back to Mr Jambon. I'm sorry about that. It's a little bit like Captain Haddock's sparadrap story. Everyone gives it to themselves and it is probably revealing the difficulty of finding an interlocutor who assumes responsibility for this operation and therefore also the responsibility, it must be said, for the failure of this ambition. But, minister, I think it is up to you that I have to ask the question not only because I have pleasure in talking to you, but, above all, because the redesign was an important element in the funding of the tax shift. You announced at the time 100 million in 2016, 200 million in 2017, 750 million cumulative over the period 2016-2020. This was an important part of the tax shift funding. On the basis of the opinion of the Court of Auditors which was examined in the Finance Committee, it is clear that these yields will never be achieved. We are now talking about 25 million in 2016 and 53 million in 2017. In those two years, that's a quarter of the return announced, which will force you to present us with new tax shift funding paths in the near future. And then, Minister, the question arises for you because you are ultimately the main sponsor of the redesign. In any case, this is how you designated yourself in a note submitted to the Council of Ministers last October. It is, in fact, through the best collection, the best recovery of public revenues that we now hope to glean 15 million in 2016 and 40 million in 2017. Minister, the two questions I want to ask you in this regard are therefore simple. What is the expected performance of the federal government's redesign for 2016, 2017 and beyond? If the return is reduced, what compensatory measures will have to be taken to finance the tax shift? Finally, Mr Minister, since the beginning, there has been considerable external support for this redesign operation, through the use of consultants, to the tune of EUR 13 million, if I am not mistaken. This was, in any case, the decision of the Council of Ministers in June 2015. Thirteen million euros still account for half of the 2016 yield! It's not nothing! Finally, how much did the government have to pay for the consultancy costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u58	Mr Dispa, you are asking me a number of questions about the redesign, a programme that falls within the remit of my colleague Vandeput – as you have indicated. However, I can tell you that, within this framework, a budget of EUR 10 million has indeed been foreseen to benefit from an external call for the eight trajectories. To this end, each minister is responsible for the minister assigned to him. As Minister of Finance, I am responsible for journey No. 2 – better perception and recovery. For this trajectory, we do not need these EUR 10 million, because we rely entirely on the resources available to the FPS Finance. The objective is to improve collection and recovery procedures within and outside my department. In this regard, the support provided by the CTI is also reviewed. The project focuses on the concept of nudging, whereby citizens are given a boost to encourage them to pay, but also on the introduction of a citizen account that includes a summary of all the taxpayers' debts and debts to the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have the impression that you have been given, because in the end, it is you who have to collect the bulk of the revenue expected by the government through the redesign and that at the same time, you do not get any benefit from the $10 million spent on consulting. You are, of course, the right student of the government, but it is not very reassuring as to the use that will be made of it. This amount will in fact make no difference, most of the efforts being made by your department. I have seen in you the same lack of enthusiasm as in your colleague in charge of the budget when she admitted in the Finance Committee that we must now work on the redesignation of the redesign. Obviously, no one believes in it anymore. The redesign is "pschitt", except for consultancy costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning a final agreement was reached on Lufthansa's takeover of Brussels Airlines. The Belgian company Brussels Airlines becomes part of the low-cost carrier Eurowings, a subsidiary of Lufthansa. The brand name Brussels Airlines would last for two years, but after that everything is possible. As regards employment, Lufthansa says that there will be no restructuring, but guarantees for staff are not given. A few weeks ago, I questioned the Prime Minister here about that file, and then he listed the federal government's priorities. I would like to remind you of this: firstly, the anchoring of Brussels Airlines; secondly, employment; thirdly, the maintenance of the network of destinations in Africa and North America; and fourthly, the maintenance of the decision-making centre in Brussels. The Prime Minister then felt that little or no guarantees were given in Lufthansa's proposal. The question is, of course, what is the situation with these guarantees? Brussels Airlines is an important player in our aviation sector, an important employer at the airport and in the region and also an important player for the Region. Minister, what is the impact of this takeover decision on Brussels and our country? What guarantees have been given for the staff? What are the short- and medium-term effects? Will the decision-making centre remain in Belgium? Is the anchoring of Brussels Airlines guaranteed in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Prime Minister, who was apologized today for the European Council, closely followed that dossier. In his absence, I can inform you of the following information. As already suspected since the partial acquisition in 2008 of 45% of SN Brussels Airlines by Lufthansa, Lufthansa's Board of Directors decided at the end of September to clarify its option to take over the remaining 55% of SN Brussels Airlines shares. The Belgian Government did not formally participate in the negotiations initiated earlier this year between the two private and autonomous companies. However, the government and the Prime Minister have closely followed the file, including through the Federal Participation and Investment Company, which has shares in SN Brussels Airlines and is 25% shareholder of Brussels Airport. The mobility, infrastructure and strategy of airports are key sectors for the future of Belgium in economic terms and in terms of jobs. Therefore, the future of SN, and indirectly of Brussels airport, is a matter of national importance. For the government and the FPIM, which sent a letter to Lufthansa's CEO to that effect, it was important that Lufthansa made firm commitments on the following points. Firstly, respect for the current business model of Brussels Airlines, in particular a strong European network, complemented by long-distance flights, including to the African continent and a range of competitive and high-quality products. Secondly, supporting jobs. Finally, the maintenance of a decision-making centre in Belgium. These commitments seemed particularly important to us for a respectful integration of the value created by SN Brussels Airlines and for an integration that benefits both parties. As the Prime Minister indicated on Tuesday in the Committee on the Interior, in response to a question from your colleague, Mr Vanden Burre, the process was in the final stage. The joint communication from SN Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa confirms the intentions of Lufthansa's CEO in his letter to the Prime Minister, but these intentions will of course have to be converted into concrete actions in the coming months, which we will certainly be subject to an in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u62	Minister, your answer is far too long. I have to ask you to be shorter for the next ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u63	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. It is important that those intentions, formulated in a letter from the Prime Minister, and commitments are taken over by SN Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa. In the coming weeks and months, it is crucial to check whether Lufthansa is going to do so. When I look at communication this morning, I find that with regard to employment and those three or four priorities few concrete things were said. We must advocate that SN Brussels Airlines have a clear presence within Lufthansa, that the decision-making centre remains in Brussels and that, in particular, the employment of thousands of people remains guaranteed. Because on the basis of these jobs, of course, there are also tens of thousands of other jobs that are important in the region. We must go for these guarantees and we must also get those guarantees from Lufthansa. The federal government and the federal government must help Lufthansa and SN Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u64	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement provides for the establishment of a guaranteed service within the SNCB Group in order to ensure that workers are free to go to their workplace. It is important to remember that the customer must be able, at all times, to receive reliable and quality service. It is therefore no longer acceptable for a strike to deprive hundreds of thousands of workers of their mode of transport. You often recall that when a strike occurs on the railways, it pits workers against other workers. You have given time for social consultation. You have extended the original deadline by six months. Today, in the light of the statements of some trade union representatives who fall behind an ideological position, there is a refusal to succeed. It is all the more regrettable that the government had given every opportunity to negotiate to co-build an innovative model in respect of the thousands of commuters who trust SNCB to travel daily to school and their workplace. Minister, what is your reaction to these statements? What methodology do you intend to apply in the coming weeks and months to achieve and enforce the government agreement? Of the four scenarios presented in the Infrastructure Committee, which one does your favor? Finally, can you assure us, once again, that safety will be at the centre of your concerns in the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u65	Dear colleague, recognised trade union organisations consider the proposed guaranteed service to be an obstacle to successful social dialogue and an infringement of the right to strike. However, the proposal put on the table offered the maximum opportunities for such a dialogue, as before there was a question of guaranteed service. I deplore this situation since a joint agreement could have provided a solid basis for establishing an acceptable system of guaranteed service. I've given enough time to be able to make it happen. However, I believe that this will not be the case. As I have said on several occasions, in accordance with the government agreement, it is now up to the government to take an initiative itself. I therefore intend to take this legislative initiative. I will take into account as much as possible the practical and legal objections raised by various speakers. This also means that I am still open to constructive proposals. Although many are critical of the guaranteed service, I remain convinced that such a service is essential at a time when the saturation of the road network requires reliable alternatives. The challenge is to find a practical solution that is attentive to both the right to strike and the right to work. Different scenarios were on the table. They will, of course, be used in the development of the bill. The legislative procedure will take some time to propose a solution that respects both the right of users to have a guaranteed service, a service provided with all the maximum safety standards as well as the right of workers. I will therefore follow all the steps that are normally required for the tabling and consideration of a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt for a moment that you will make every effort to ensure that this guaranteed service is a reality, and that we can respect the duty we have towards rail users who trust SNCB to go to their place of work or to school. I also have no doubt that your constructive spirit will make it possible to put on the table an effective and applicable proposal, which, of course, will respect all the safety standards necessary for the smooth running of the journey by rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u67	Mr Minister, there is supposedly a Community stand-still here, yet in the federal government agreement. The Brussels Government apparently feels differently about this and suddenly takes the noise standards out of the Community freezer. The noise standards are, of course, already strict. They flick Zaventem, they flick Flemish-Brabant, they flick Flanders. However, Zaventem is Flanders' second economic engine. What does Mrs Fremault of the cdH do now? It says that it will now also abolish the tolerance limit which makes it possible to obtain a warning and no penalty for minor offences. This means that the number of fines will increase by about fivefold. That's gonna cause job losses. One company has already announced that it is going to Frankfurt, another has already announced that it is going to Amsterdam. Others will undoubtedly follow. Minister, the jobs are literally flying away from Zaventem abroad. What do I notice? Mr Gosuin, Minister for Work in Brussels, is laughing at us. He says Zaventem should move. This is what one understands in Brussels under job creation: job destruction in Flanders. With the sixth state reform and the new financing law, Brussels is getting bags full of money from Flanders. You know that, Mr Verherstraeten. What's the present? Brussels, Mr Gosuin, is laughing at us. Fortunately, the Flemish Government has invoked a conflict of interest. That's gonna cause a 60-day suspension of ocharm. I will say something about that later in my reply. You cannot really answer my question, Minister, because you are not part of the Consultation Committee. We'll pretend you're sitting in it, as if you were there virtually. In any case, you are a member of the government, the government that constantly talks about jobs, jobs, jobs. You can now see those jobs flying away from Zaventem abroad. What will the Federal Government's position be on the Consultation Committee? That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u68	Mr Vuye, you should know that I was only informed of the title of your question. In those circumstances, I can say the following on the issue of noise standards and the Consultation Committee. According to the information I have at my disposal, Flanders has not yet opened a formal conflict of interest procedure on noise standards. The Consultation Committee shall not be given the file for examination until such a procedure is initiated. With regard to the functioning of the Consultative Committee, please refer to the persons responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u69	I don't know if this place is a joke. Is that a joke here? Members of this House must stand here with a piece of paper, while ministers may read a text, after which at the end they refer us to the person responsible. It's the goddamn government itself that referred me to you and you can't even answer it. Congratulations. As for the rest, you're referring to conflicts of interest. You don't have to explain that to me. Let me explain to you how conflicts of interest work. When it comes to French speakers, they block it. For example, BHV has been blocked here from November 2007 to December 2011 for four years. How long is the conflict of interest that the Flemish government will invoke? Sixty days. One month the Flemings can invoke a conflict of interest. They cannot block it, as the French speakers can. I'm also looking at the Brussels government. You may not believe it, but it includes Dutch-speaking ministers from sp.a., CD&V and Open Vld. Where's Mrs. Debaets? Where's Mr. Smet? Where is Mr Vanhengel? They're probably lost in the closed tunnels. That'll be it. They're completely absent. In this dossier Brussels laughs Flemish Brabant and Zaventem squarely. The solution is very simple. Through Beliris alone, Brussels receives 125 million euros a year. If the Flemish ministers in the federal government have the nerve to turn off that crane, you will have done at least a useful Community stand-still during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I propose that the draft law introducing a right of bridging in favour of self-employed persons, Nos 2167/1 and 2, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill establishing a bridge right for self-employed persons, Nos. 2167/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u72	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2123/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2123/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mr Klaps and Mrs Dierick. Mr Klaps referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u77	Mr President, in committee we have been working for a long time to adapt the rules on copyright. That was necessary, too. At the end of last year, Belgian rules were found to be contrary to European law by the European Court of Justice. It was therefore necessary to modernise Belgian law. We are therefore pleased to be able to approve this draft law in this plenary. It is certainly important to combine all the exceptions for education and scientific research into a clear set of rules in this draft law. I would like to emphasise both education and scientific research, because they really belong here together. Both are rightly consistently combined, both in the title of the articles and in the explanatory memorandum, although the scientific research section seems to have been forgotten in Article XI.240. I think it's a material mistake. I hope that the Minister can confirm to me that this is the case, that through the report we can still ensure clarity and that the Council of Ministers will also have to take into account the objectives for the promotion of scientific research when determining the remuneration provided for in Article XI.240. Finally, I would like to comment on the publisher scheme. The Minister assured us in committee that the scheme worked out would not fall under unlawful State aid. We will follow you there, Minister. Nevertheless, we consider it important that the draft be notified to the Commission's State Aid Service, so that it can qualify the scheme as lawful, because in the case of non-notification, it is by definition unlawful state aid. We must avoid this at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u78	An amendment which I resubmit with Sp.a has just been redistributed. There was a little mistake on our part. Indeed, we are talking here about the rights of authors, journalists and researchers, in relation to the fact that their works, their literature, their research objects are printed or photocopied. The number of photocopies produced today in Belgium is estimated at 1.5 billion. Thanks to this project, this compensation for researchers, authors and artists will be totally challenged. Indeed, in response to an opinion of the European Court of Justice, photocopiers, multinationals and printer manufacturers must no longer pay what the N-VA calls a tax, but one that is not. Indeed, they paid 60% of the copyrights that came back to these authors, researchers and journalists. I regret that because the minister could have found other solutions. I was hoping the minister would be here today, Mr. President. He was on questions, so I guess he could have come. I wish he had changed his mind about this, because not only are multinationals immune, but who will pay? Schools, SMEs and libraries that will have to compensate for our authors. But the worst thing is that this government has never guaranteed the 24 million copyrights that will be lost with this bill tomorrow. So I hope that there will be a break, because if there are no more books to print or photocopy, if there is no more research, there will also be no production of photocopiers or printers. I expect a surge from the majority to vote on this amendment that guarantees copyright to our talented artists and researchers, but not at all recognized by this bill and by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u79	As you know, this bill follows the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the HP v. Reprobel case. This judgment instructs us to clarify a few points at the level of implementing orders and to make some legal amendments to the Code of Economic Law. It is precisely the objective of the project that is before us today. First, the flat-rate remuneration for reprography will be abolished and replaced by a similar right for publishers. This system will not prejudice the authors' remuneration; it has been confirmed to us by the minister. Secondly, an exception to the education sector is proposed, a small bowl of air that will be welcome for many schools. I don't doubt it! At the same time, only one remuneration would cover all, paper reproduction and digital reproduction. It will de facto provide greater legal certainty. Thirdly, this legal cleansing will also provide greater clarity on exceptions to copyright and related rights. For example, the photocopy made at home will be considered private and there will no longer be a cumulation between lump sum and proportional remuneration. These amendments, as you said, are necessary, because there is an urgent need for greater clarity and legal certainty. Indeed, at the practical level, this is beginning to create problems on the market, because of some distortions that have arisen. Finally, I would like to point out that a transitional phase is planned. For one year, the continuity of the level of remuneration is guaranteed. An independent study will make it possible to properly assess the damage caused to the right of reprography and to determine objectively the rates to be applied. In conclusion, I would like to recall that the entire field area has been consulted, including the Intellectual Property Council. Even Reprobel is seeking a quick exit in this file. The minister is presenting us with the most balanced situation possible. My group and I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u80	Mr. Chair, a few words about this bill too. All of them have said that it is a matter of bringing themselves into line with a decision of the Court of Justice. I would like to say that this bill sets beacons, but we are pleased to see the writing of many royal decrees and their effective implementation. It was pointed out that the flat-rate remuneration of industrialists falls and that this will have a significant cost to authors and publishers. I particularly insist on two elements. There was talk of a one-year transitional phase, particularly for schools. I urge the Minister to ensure that this transitional phase for teaching can continue beyond a year, as well as the problems of reproduction of music scores for artistic education. It is also an important element in the teaching of art. Finally, a whole part of this project does not regulate anything with regard to digital reproductions. We look forward to the minister explaining his position in the future. These, Mr President, are the strengths on which I wanted to remind the minister of the duties he promised at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u81	Mr Minister, you did not want to say that in committee, perhaps you will say that in plenary? I have retabled the amendment to convince you that the government has not chosen the right path. I ask you to guarantee the 24 million that the sector receives in compensation for these reproductions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u82	Mr President, we had an in-depth discussion in committee. I know Mrs. Lalieux's position very well. I tried to explain to him that we decided to take another direction. As far as the amount is concerned, a decision will be taken by the Council of Ministers. When the royal decree has been approved, I can give you the exact amounts. Mr de Lamotte, you have reminded us of certain problems. Your questions are relevant and we need to find solutions not only for teaching but also for the other sectors you mentioned. I have already discussed with some organizations that have asked me to work as quickly as possible to find solutions, for example for the music sector. I am committed to finding fair and lasting solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u83	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2122/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2122/6) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law amending certain provisions of book XI of the Code of Economic Law. The Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance erred in its judgment in the main proceedings. The draft law has 42 articles. The bill has 42 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u85	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u86	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u87	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Denis Ducrame, Philippe Pivin, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Nathalie Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u89	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some hesitation that I am entering the Chamber, particularly in the light of the debates that we have just had and the questions that have been asked about the victims of the serious disturbances in Aleppo. I am well aware that this proposal is in the shadow of the suffering suffered by many victims of war all over the world and unfortunately still suffers. Colleagues, I myself was personally conjured by the history of the Weidenbaum family who, by means of a photo I have here, searched for the history of Daddy Weidenbaum and thus ended up with Regina Sluszny, one of the girls with blonde curls in the picture that was delivered to me. Thus I came into contact with Mrs Sluszny myself. She told me about her struggle, which she fought as a young adult and continues to fight to this day. Her struggle revolves around a number of problems that arise in the application and award criteria of the reparation pensions for the civilian victims of the war of 1940-1945. It is, therefore, with a warm heart and a cool head that we have crawled into the pen and that we have looked and looked at the technical shortcomings in the existing regulations in order to address the problem of a number of victims of war still being denied the right to compensation and the granting of such a recovery pension today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not with power and violence. That is not the reason why we had to look together for a solution, which was found and carried room-wide. I would personally like to thank the chairman of the committee for taking up the proposal. I would also like to thank all those Members who have worked together and paid attention to the problem, which will allow at least a number of victims of war to be recognised today. This will enable them to receive a recovery pension. I know, it's 70 years after date. Some say this is far too late, but if one can make up for and recover, it is never too late. Seventy years after the date, we will eventually be able to provide these people with this recovery pension. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware that the problem has not yet been solved in its entirety. Working on this regulation has brought me into contact with the Association pour la Mémoire du Shoah. They have pointed out to me a number of interpretation problems that still exist today in the application of the rules, other than those we are solving today. I am very attentive to this and I understand that a number of fellow Members, along with me, are aware that the work is not finished, but that we will have to take additional legislative initiatives on these interpretation problems. In the various chambers dealing with the granting of a war pension, there is a difference in interpretation of the concept of a war relationship, a causal link between the war, on the one hand, and the suffering and injuries suffered, on the other. According to some, this interpretation would in certain cases lead to impossible evidence being provided. We have thought for a moment whether this law and the addition of an additional amendment could also address this problem. I think it would be wise not to do that today, ladies and gentlemen. Not because the will would not be there to solve this problem, but simply because of the simple fact that our regulations..................................................................................................................................................................................... We know that this council only meets a few times a year, which would mean that this recovery law could not be adopted today and would be delayed further. We are also aware that there will undoubtedly be an additional budgetary impact. The necessary opinions on this matter will have to be requested. Finally, we need to think carefully about the proposed amendment. We all agree on the scope of the problem and on the solution to be sought. However, we must ensure that we do not create new inequalities through the formulation of new criteria. The slope presented would once again distinguish among the civilian victim between the Jewish victims and, on the one hand, the deported victims and, on the other hand, those who refused to work. I do not think we can afford that distinction. We need to look for a solution which is supported by everyone and which certainly does not conflict with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, because we wanted to prevent precisely the contradiction with the Constitution. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the attention, willingness and cooperation they have given to this proposal. I hope a warm heart and a cool head wins violence and great roaring statements. The deed to the word can offer solutions. Bedankt, collegias.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been adopted unanimously by our committee. Our group supported it because it rightly allows the criteria for granting a compensation pension to civilian victims of the 40-45 war to be relaxed. This proposal thus incorporates the issue of compensation pensions for the victims of the Shoah. As has just been recalled, the proposal has received a positive opinion from the Supreme Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims. We therefore reiterate our full support for this proposal today in plenary. However, you will not prevent me from putting this debate in a more global context, that of the victims of war, of the budget, of the evaporation desired in the long run by this government - the N-VA in the lead - and of the involvement of the federal level in the field of memory work. For our group, National Defence must continue to play an important role in the transmission of memory, in the reimbursement of war victims' care, and in social action. It is in this context that I have largely criticized the government's policy in this area, which aims to see memory as a tourist matter and thus to be able to regionalise the history of the federal state. In committee, therefore, I did not share the arguments of the minister and General Claeys. I voted against the general policy note on war victims. Indeed, this year, the Minister of Defence unveiled a plan for defence parastatals, accepted by the Council of Restricted Ministers. In this plan, the Royal Museum of Army and Military History will, in a way, be regionalized and eventually privatized. And the Institute of Veterans will disappear completely. In fact, in his 2017 policy note, the Minister even decided to use the interdepartmental reserve to finance his caisse. In this reform, the only thing we can welcome is a greater involvement of the Communities and the Regions which will enable all public tools such as education and tourism to be used to enable genuine memory work. For our group, the Institute's role and expertise are essential. This proposal demonstrates this, if necessary. While it was essential to seek to optimize and streamline the administrative costs of this institute, this could in no way be done to the detriment of its beneficiaries and its federal missions. As the proposal demonstrates, Defence must continue to be an indispensable social player in the sight of its war-victim missions. Of course, the interested parties are gradually leaving us, but the priority of international operationality and the importance of the missions around memory - peacekeeping - prove that Belgium needs a well-managed and above all, well-equipped Institute of Veterans. You cannot therefore prevent me from pointing out a form of irony in the head of my colleagues of the majority, whereas the government's policy is to show the usefulness of the Institute of Veterans and while the minister pointed out, during the debates, that in the current state of the legislation, the minister did not have the possibility to compensate non-Belgians who were victims of munitions dating from the two world wars. "We need to look for other ways to compensate the victims," he said. Above all, its general policy note for war victims in 2017 states that "the number of beneficiaries is decreasing from year to year, the budgetary costs resulting from this legislation are also decreasing. The theoretical budgetary margin thus created cannot, however, be a pretext for granting additional material benefits." The same majority submitted a text with a certain budgetary impact. What can be understood from the dual discourse of the majority? Of course, my disagreement with the government's overall policy on this matter does not remove, Madam, the important scope of this proposal and its correctness vis-à-vis its beneficiaries. That is why we will support it with strength and conviction today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u92	Mr President, quickly, like Mrs Van Cauter, I would like to thank all colleagues in the committee for the excellent discussion we have had. Clearly, it has become clear to us that, for the last people who have crossed the darkest pages of our continent's history, we must revise our legislation by opening the criteria for the cases where this legislation may apply. I am also thinking of the decision of the Constitutional Court which prompted us to take the necessary steps for this amendment. At present, Mrs Van Cauter has touched on one word, and this legislative amendment affects about 100 people. I appreciate Mrs Van Cauter's approach when she says that further amendments will still have to be adopted in the future so that everyone can find themselves there and not set a precedent in the context of an additional opinion which could be requested, among other things, from the Higher Council of the War Invalids. It is very wise to vote for this change now and to wait a few months - but I think it will have to be done quickly - before we can reach a project that will satisfy everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mrs Van Cauter for having tabled and defended this text in committee. Indeed, in order to obtain compensation as a civilian victim of war, it was necessary to have residence during the events of the war 40-45, the nationality requirement - since the last amendments - was required before 1 January 2003 and a condition of uninterrupted residence on Belgian soil since 1931. This recognition of the right to a reparation pension is obviously important, but it is essential above all to be recognised and to have a victim status in this mechanism. The terms of the proposal which we unanimously adopted in the Committee on Health make it possible to respond to the Constitutional Court's ruling that this condition of residence was contrary to both our Constitution, the free movement of persons and the Charter of Human Rights. This fully justified that we should repair and amend the current law. On the other hand, this proposal does not respond to differences in interpretation between the French- and Dutch-speaking disability commissions. It seems that the Flemish commissions require an explanation of the causal link between the facts of war and the damage suffered, which is almost impossible to meet in a way that satisfies the members of the commission. You said it in committee, noting that this element was not yet encountered in the proposed amendments. Following the letter from the Shoah Memorial Association, you repeated to me yesterday your proposal to make these amendments via another bill. The objective, while respecting the independence of these commissions, is to define otherwise the criteria for assessing the possible causal link. This proposal would be drafted collectively in order to best meet the concerns. Nor does this bill allow us to meet another of their concerns, which is to reduce procedures. The procedure remains the same: introduction of a file and demonstration of causal links. It is more difficult to prove the causal link with war damage in cases of psychological and psychological trauma. I also remember the fighting led by my colleague Mrs Zoé Genot under the previous legislature to recognize these psychological traumas, which are insufficiently taken into account or which are difficult to highlight. To this end, the Shoah Memorial Association sent the various political groups a proposal for an amendment aimed at the automatic recognition, in the event of racial persecution, of a disability of at least 10% giving access to the minimum compensation pension. This proposal is interesting to work on, but perhaps it is to be incorporated into this new proposal which we could draft, and which can be expressed otherwise than the one proposed, with the concern not to create new inequalities. In any case, that concern must be taken into account. It is important to remind colleagues that we have considered several bills in the Health Committee. This was part of the number. It concerns more or less 100 people, whose budget cost has been estimated at more or less 257,000 euros, and who had received the very positive opinion of the National Council of Invalides. Other bills were on the table, one of which was aimed at harmonizing pensions for civilian and military war victims. We agreed in committee that we would return to the subject in January and February, after work that DG War Victims committed to do to examine the different categories of victims. There are, of course, military personnel, civilians, deportees, disabled persons from the Congo, but also different categories of victims depending on the rate, degree and type of disability. We therefore asked them to provide us with finer figures, and perhaps a more detailed rewriting of the original bill. There were also a number of bills on the table, including one to compensate victims of munitions of war that remained in the territory. It proposed to abolish the Belgian nationality requirement in order to have access to such compensation, considering that there was a significant unfairness. The Minister of Public Health and Social Affairs and the Minister of Defence responded to this proposal by explaining that a government project was being developed. It aims to apply the existing mechanism for victims of war to victims of attacks on our territory – such as those of 22 March. They stated that consideration should be given to the nationality requirement. Therefore, if removed, it would obviously be appropriate to review it in the regulations on the victims of munitions of war. We have made an appointment for the months of January and February to continue our work on these texts. In this regard, I would like to propose to Mrs Van Cauter and to the other colleagues that a supplementary text be prepared in order to overcome the differences in interpretation – as you suggested. In this way, we could look at the amendment before us, but also ask for a budgetary assessment of this extension, which is of course justified. On the other hand, we would like to seek the advice of the National Council of Invalides. As chairman of the Committee on Public Health, I will allow myself to ask the Council to meet quickly to respond to each other's concerns. I made a commitment to the Shoah Memorial Association to convey its concerns to us all. It was a question of how we could take them into account while respecting our procedures and working on them as quickly as possible. In my view, the passage of this bill will help to meet the needs of the people concerned. In January, we will return to the commission with a full text that will enable us to extend the scope of the law and thus correct the new inequities that have been highlighted. In turn, I would like to thank the authors of the proposal and the colleagues in the committee for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1697/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1697/7) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nathalie Muylle refers to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2187/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2187/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u101	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2138/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2138/4) The draft law has 70 articles. The bill has 70 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luykx, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2178/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2178/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u109	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2174/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2174/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u113	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veerle Wouters, Siegfried Bracke, Daphné Dumery. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. [[Assent]] I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Roel Deseyn and Benoît Piedboeuf. They shall refer to the written report. Mr Klaps and Mr Gilkinet have been registered as speakers, but they are absent. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u115	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2046. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2046/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2046. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2046/3) The title was changed by the Commission in draft law amending Article 122 of the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services in order to regulate the appeal against certain decisions of the FSMA taken under the law of... regulating the recognition and demarcation of crowdfunding and laying down various provisions on finance." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending section 122 of the Act of 2 August 2002 on supervision of the financial sector and financial services with a view to settling appeals against certain decisions taken by the FSMA under the Act of... organising the recognition and supervision of crowdfunding and laying down various financial provisions. The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2072. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2072/10) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2072. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2072/10) The title was changed by the Committee in draft legislation regulating the recognition and demarcation of crowdfunding and laying down various provisions on finance." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill organising the recognition and supervision of crowdfunding and laying down various provisions on finance. The draft law has 113 articles. The bill has 113 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Friart, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. We can only welcome this proposal, which enhances the readability of a measure which allows more support for the self-employed in difficulty and confirms the extension of the possibilities to benefit from the bridge right, a real social safety net for the self-employed in difficulty. This measure will allow them both to rebuild themselves and to enjoy a second chance. This is fully in line with the desire of the MR to establish a reassuring legal system for those who undertake and want to undertake. Of course, the number of bankruptcies has decreased significantly, thanks in particular to the action of the government. Nevertheless, we must continue to protect the self-employed in difficulty. They too have the right to quality social protection. This bill is moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also be short, but I wanted to intervene because, indeed, these are provisions that we, as ecologists, have long supported. In fact, we have texts to this effect that have been tabled during several legislatures. It is true that the social protection of the self-employed is fundamental and certainly its extension. That's what we've been advocating for a long time. This is what this text proposes: to extend the possibilities of protecting the self-employed in the event of a hard blow, in this case of course so that they can retain their rights, so that they can also have the opportunity to turn around when this goes less well, when there is a balance sheet deposit which is obviously a dramatic experience. It is very important for us that these rights be expanded and increased. That is what this bill is about. A second important point that I think it is really essential to stress is the right to second chance. We know well that in our country - we can even generalise by saying that in Europe - it is not always easy for successful entrepreneurs. Culturally, we sometimes have a bit of a problem with failure, with regard to trying, missing, going to the balance sheet sometimes, then getting up and starting over again. In other countries, it is seen as an experiment. At home, it's often seen as a failure. We can only regret it. Signals sent with this type of proposal such as bridge law are positive signals in this area. It is said that in the event of failure or deposit of a balance sheet, they must be given the means to be able to get up and re-launch a project. This is a very positive signal that this text sends to these entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u121	Mr. Speaker, I will make a few comments on this bill, for which we too have some elements of legislation to provide. The idea of "unemployment" for the self-employed seems to me good and should promote entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs in the long run. Thus, this "gateway" right which allows a certain part of the population to cease an activity for economic reasons by having a "safety net" is interesting and must be able to stimulate each other. I want to talk about young people who at the beginning of their careers can start, but also the younger ones who at some point in their careers can change their options and have that security. I would point out, however, that the Grand Barometer of Social Security for the Independents of the UCM shows that more than 41% of the self-employed are concerned about the risk, either of bankruptcy or of failure in the pursuit of their activity. The "gateway" right seems to us to be a good way of stimulating entrepreneurship and reassuring the million self-employed that our country currently has. This same Barometer shows above all a lack of knowledge of existing covers and other social nets. The measure will have to be made known to all those who are likely to benefit from it. We will therefore support this project, which we fully agree with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u122	I did not register any other speakers. They were, in fact, statements of support, Minister, but I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u123	I'll be very brief. I would really like to thank the various speakers and groups for their support. As you have rightly indicated, it is necessary to allow those who are in a difficult economic situation to stop their activity before the situation is critical, and before, if necessary, they are bankrupt or in an extremely serious situation. Secondly, this is part of the security of the decision to launch as an independent. Thirdly, as we rightly point out, a number of our independents are facing fragile economic situations. The barometer mentioned by Mr. de Lamotte shows it. This complements a set of measures already taken, which Parliament has supported very broadly to make the status of the self-employed more robust and more supportive. I would like to thank you very much for their support to colleagues in the government and in Parliament for these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2167/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2167/1) The draft law has 25 articles. The bill has 25 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Our work has progressed faster than expected and we will therefore vote in a few moments. However, for technical reasons, I am suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u127	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u128	Considerations and requests for urgency will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u129	Mr President, I can hear what you're saying. But I wonder what the so-called technical reasons for this suspension of the sitting are. Mr President, in recent weeks in committee, the quorum of the majority has often not been reached. I think these technical reasons are not the real reason. In my opinion, it is the demonstration by a+b that there is again no quorum of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u130	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u131	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u132	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 27 October 2016, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 November 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 27 October 2016, two appeals to the candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 9 November 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Only one application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. Only one application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I propose that two more calls be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I propose that you reissue two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u133	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) prohibiting the investigation, manufacture, trade and use of fully autonomous weapons, No. 2219/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u134	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2016, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM. Benoit Hellings et Wouter De Vriendt, Mme Muriel Gerkens, MM. Stefaan Van Hecke and Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on the prohibition of the research, production, trade and use of totally autonomous weapons, No 2219/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u135	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u136	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending Articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code concerning the method of handing over names to the child, No. 2220/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Bill amending Articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code relating to the method of transmission of the name to the child, No. 2220/1. I suggest that we speak on this in the usual way, but as is customary in the meantime, the urgency is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u137	Mr President, on behalf of the government, I would like to ask the urgency of the draft law to which you refer. If necessary, I will give an additional justification for this. If not, I propose to vote on the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u138	Does anyone ask for any additional justification? [[Yes]] Mr De Crem, would you like to motivate me briefly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u139	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak again in this House. The government is calling for the draft law amending Articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code on the method of handing over names to the child to be dealt with in this House at high urgency. The Constitutional Court was set aside by judgment No. 2 of 14 January 2016 Article 335, § 1, second paragraph, third sentence of the Civil Code as replaced by Article 2 of the Law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality between men and women in terms of the transfer of names to the child and to the adopted person. In the interest of legal certainty, in particular in view of the need to determine the name of the child from birth and in order to enable the legislator to adopt a new regulation, the Constitutional Court maintained the effects of the provision annulled until 31 December 2016. The draft is intended to adapt the new law relating to the name, in the light of that judgment and, in particular, to remedy the violation of the principle of equality, enshrined in the Constitution, and found by the Court, before 1 January 2017, the date on which the annulled provision would cease to have effect. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I propose that the House adopt the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u140	Normally, we don't have a debate about urgency. But I understand there are reasons. You have two minutes, Mr. Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u141	Mr. President, a comment. It is a fundamental provision on an important part of social life. We knew, when we passed the legislation, that there were risks of recourse because of the choice that had been made to impose, in the event of disagreement, the double name with the father's name first. I'm not going to go back to the subject. But I note that the ruling of the Constitutional Court dates back to January 14, 2016. It's eleven months later. The urgency comes from the need to amend our legislation before 31 December. The text has just been tabled by the government on our benches today and the Justice Committee is due to vote tomorrow. I find it to be working, on a subject like this, in conditions that are not acceptable, especially since the Council of State's decision of 1 December, which was before the government, was already 15 days ago, and it is relatively critical of the text proposed to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u142	Mr President, I understand my colleague Mr Brotcorne, because it is a bit of a habit of working urgently and not of allowing the real parliamentary debate. Mr Brotcorne, you know how important it is for families and how important it is to answer the Constitutional Court. We had a long debate and we knew that it was going to be discriminatory. We are pleased with this decision of the Constitutional Court. Although it is a pity to proceed in this way, I believe that it is necessary to work tomorrow so that there is no legal insecurity for children who will be born from 1 January 2017. But it is a pity that we have not had a real debate about this beautiful bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u143	Mr President, I agree with the honourable Members' remarks. We knew there was going to be a remedy. The ruling was dated January 2016, so we had the opportunity to work and correct the provisions, and bills were being tabled. I can't figure out why we're coming so late with the text. Is the aim to pass a text without regard to its quality and parliamentary work? The later we come, the faster we will have to go and the less quality the work will be! Or is there concern, however, about responding to legal uncertainty and doing proper work? We are in a hurry with the deadline of January 1, 2017 but does this mean that all work must be completed tomorrow afternoon? Everyone wants it to be settled. I think that giving ourselves two or three days, so as to meet deadlines and do good work, and to take into account the opinion of the Council of State, seems to me to be an interesting attitude. I think no one will try to delay the work since everyone wants it to come into effect on January 1, 2017. I find this urgent request to be vexatious, given the intentions and will of all members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u144	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2123/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2123/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u146	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karine Lalieux cs on article 27. (2122/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 27. (2122/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 57 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 27 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 75 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 134 Total (Mr David Geerts voted in favour) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2122/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2122/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1697/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1697/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u149	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2187/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2187/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u152	Mr. Speaker, although this bill contains good provisions, it is believed that some elements could have been amended. First of all, this law provides for the removal of the conditions for access to the pledge register. Whereas it was previously intended that the King, on the advice of the Privacy Commission, would determine the categories of persons or institutions having access to them, the Privacy Commission had given an unfavourable opinion as to the change in access to that register. You'll admit it's unusual. Of course, we recognize the need for full publicity to exist, since it is an intrinsic characteristic of the pledge. However, it is still a matter of finding the right balance between this objective and the right to privacy of debtors. What the government didn't do. Secondly, the government withdraws the possibility for the debtor to claim his right to modify data that would be inaccurate in that register. Therefore, the government did not consider it appropriate to listen to the Privacy Commission as well as the Council of State, which had also pointed out these remarks. For these two reasons, you will understand that my group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 98 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 134 Total (Mr David Geerts abstained) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2138/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2138/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 118 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2178/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2178/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2174/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2174/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 94 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 134 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u157	Mr President, is this a vote on both projects at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u158	One.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u159	Mr President, it is stated that this is a vote on Bill 2046 and on Bill 2072. Could you clarify the matter? Is it a vote on both texts at the same time or two separate votes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u160	Since it seems that there is confusion, I propose that you, ladies and gentlemen, reconsider and proceed, first of all, to the vote on document 2046/3.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u161	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2046/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2046/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 77 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2072/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2072/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2167/3) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2167/3)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-15-54-plenair-ip144x.u164	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 19 December 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of 19 December 2016. However, I propose a small change in the order of the projects to be discussed by moving the project to point 5 after point 10. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 20, 2016 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 20 December 2016 at 10 a.m.
