ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u1	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in the Court of Auditors' recent "comments and observations" on budgetary adjustment 2016, the chapter on development cooperation is particularly acerbic. The Court of Auditors considers that the federal government systematically communicates amounts of official development assistance (ODA) in truth unspent, with the aim of approaching the symbolic goal of 0.7% of GDP, which has not yet been achieved. As a reminder, today, with these false figures, we are at 0.42 per cent of gross national income. We need to take into account one important factor: the specificity of aid to developing countries, which we have just discussed at the beginning of a meeting as part of a bill. In politically unstable regions such as Burundi (whose direct aid was suspended last year) or, soon, in the Congo, Belgium must legitimately not spend initially planned budgets. It is about respecting human rights and good governance. But this does not mean that these means cannot be spent otherwise or elsewhere, until the situation on the ground changes. Hence, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions. 1. How do you explain this situation? What are you planning to do about it? 2. The Centre National de Coopération au Développement (CNCD-11.11.11) has recommended that you adopt an organic law in order to guarantee the availability of funds committed but awaiting liquidation. Are you considering such legislative initiatives in the near future? 3. According to your services, what is the percentage of expenditure on Belgian official development assistance compared to gross national income in terms of the budget actually liquidated for 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u2	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the calculation of official development assistance is based on actual expenditure and not on budgetary forecasts. Belgium applies internationally agreed rules in this regard. These rules are the historic product of consensus within the OECD Development Assistance Committee and ensure that the ODA statistics highlighted by each DAC donor are comparable. Expenditure eligible as ODA is not limited to expenditure on the DGD budget. Expenditure incurred by other Belgian official bodies, such as other SPFs or the Regions, Communities and local authorities, is also included. The budget of the Belgian Development Cooperation shall be drawn up every year as precisely as possible, taking into account the international obligations to be fulfilled and the multiannual programmes or conventions that have been signed. Funding for non-governmental organizations or institutional actors is also provided on a multi-year basis. The base also takes into account the budget estimates of programmes that are or will be prepared with partner countries or organizations in a often difficult and unpredictable context. Depending on the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers, the breakdown of blockages between the different basic allocations is made by examining the progress of projects and programmes, possibly establishing different scenarios taking into account political and humanitarian developments. This is a difficult exercise, and the needs are indeed enormous. Thus, the measures taken in the context of budgetary prudence have led to a revision of the various cooperation programmes in the partner countries and these adjustments have been communicated to the local authorities. This will influence the outcome of ODA in 2016. Budgets that have been released due to political instability or other reasons in a partner country are, to the extent possible, allocated to other programmes. However, as the preparation of programmes or conventions is carried out in close cooperation and consultation with partner countries and organizations, it is not always obvious that these budgets should be mobilised in the short term. This is a problem that applies to all federal bodies, and therefore not only to development cooperation. The possible adaptation of the Belgian State's accounting rules to ensure the availability of committed funds must necessarily be the subject of consultation within the Government itself. It is not intended at this time to change the current regulations in this direction. The estimate of liquidation appropriations must therefore be made taking into account commitments of the past and priorities in the light of any new situations. For 2014, the percentage of ODA was 0.46 per cent; for 2015, it was 0.42 per cent. It is, therefore, actual expenditure and not, as you say, false figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your answers and for making it clear that these are actual expenditures, which is quite reassuring. Nevertheless, the political instability of many countries – Burundi, the Congo, perhaps one day, although I do not hope, Guinea Conakry – means that budgets are not, de facto, spent. One should imagine a system that would allow a budget to be increased in another country at the last minute for a programme that had shown its effectiveness. In this way, these budgets would always be well spent on development cooperation, which would prevent your government partners from taking advantage of it to skim your budget or at least avoid certain expenses. In collaboration with the associations and partners in question, you should find the legal way to reorient these budgets at the last minute. It would also be a way of rewarding those who function well, while respecting the values of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u4	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, during an exchange we had on 7 June last concerning the screening by Deloitte of Belgian NGOs active in development cooperation, you said: "The conclusion was that the company Deloitte, having been the subject of no res judicata, has access to the market." Deloitte was fined 12.3 million euros in 2014, a penalty imposed by the Instituto de Contabilidad y Auditoria de Cuentas under the Spanish Ministry of Economy for two errors, one of which was described as "serious" and the other as "very serious" in the irregularities committed during the Bankia's audit. Deloitte simply ignored this fine! In its 2015 accounting register, Deloitte does not provide any information on this matter and does not provide the amount necessary to pay the fine. Lillo, Auditores Asociados, who is the auditor overseeing Deloitte's accounts, also did not correct this error. The Spanish Ministry should soon confirm this sanction for "very serious continuing offences". Not only has Deloitte been convicted by the Spanish ministry, but, moreover, Deloitte refuses the conviction by ignoring it in his balance sheet, on purpose, since by ignoring it, it allows him to remain in the race for other public procurements, I suppose. Another example of a conviction, on 4 February 2016, the 18th Chamber of the Luxembourg Correctional Court handed down suspended sentences of three months' imprisonment and a fine of 10 000 euros against each of the four former partners of the company Deloitte-Luxembourg for having signed and anti-dated documents in 2002 on behalf of Italian clients. These judgments elsewhere in Europe confirm that the Deloitte office is a company that flouts the law and the essential principles of good governance, the principles that this company is responsible for "screening" among Belgian development NGOs! My question is simple: do you always consider it appropriate that Deloitte should carry out this screening on behalf of your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, there are some elements of clarification that are useful to frame your question. The contract to which you refer has been awarded to Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren, BV o.v.e. CVBA. It is a separate legal entity from the Spanish and Luxembourg organizations which you tell me have been condemned. The Deloitte Bureau was tasked with carrying out the review on the basis of the criteria established by the Government and developed with the assistance of experts. The Deloitte office was responsible for checking the consistency between the criteria and the situation in organisations wishing to benefit from public subsidies. The organisations also stressed the professionalism of Deloitte's employees. In addition, some NGOs have already called on Deloitte in the context of the audit of their annual accounts, proof that they trust the Belgian firm. The question you are asking me is, in fact, out of date since Deloitte has already done the screening. The contract was awarded on 14 December 2015. I would like to reiterate that, on that date, it was verified by my administration that the Belgian company was not subject to any conviction that would discredit the work that it could do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, our main opposition to this screening is related to the fact that an internationally recognized auditing company such as Deloitte, working mainly in the financial sector, does not have the competence to understand how small NGOs, small structures with small budgets and a tradition of development cooperation, fundamentally different in terms of how banks or other multinationals operate. Deloitte, regardless of its division, clearly plays an important role in tax evasion and in controlling – failing – systems in banks to combat money laundering and tax evasion. I still think that this is the worst way to "screen" NGOs to ensure that the poacher suddenly becomes the gendarme. This is very difficult to explain to small NGOs that are going to get their approval withdrawn because of a Deloitte screening focused on good governance, while this society, elsewhere in the world, has not discovered huge governance problems in other structures. That's disproportionate. In the future, for future screenings, we should be very careful to ensure that companies, which will have to analyse the way in which NGOs involved in development cooperation operate, are beyond suspicion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u7	Minister, you have just signed the 2017-2020 cooperation programme with Niger. €2 million is earmarked to finance the fight against pregnancy and early marriage. This country is the "world champion" for child marriage: more than three-quarters of girls are still married there before the age of 18, including one in three before the age of 15. Logically, therefore, the country is the record for all categories of early birth and population growth: every hour, a girl under the age of 14 gives birth in the country, and Nigerians have on average between seven and eight children in their lives. From 8 to 10 June, I visited Niger as part of a parliamentary mission organized by the NGO Plan and the Association of European Parliamentarians with Africa (AWEPA) to meet with our Nigerian counterparts and discuss the best ways to advance the legal framework in Niger for girls. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following question. At present, only half of Niger's children finish primary school and the three-quarters of adolescents are illiterate. Knowing that education could be a lasting response to the problems of extreme poverty and forced and early marriage, why not also put basic education at the heart of Belgian cooperation with Niger?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u8	Mrs Grovonius, Belgian Cooperation attaches great importance to the situation of women and girls in Niger. Although we no longer work in the education sector, on the occasion of the Joint Committee held on 22 June, we signed a project to support the schooling of young girls in the municipalities of the Dosso region for an amount of EUR 800 000. In addition, Belgium has been contributing to the Global Partnership for Education fund since 2005 and is part of the constituent group of donor countries on its Board of Directors with Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Russia and Switzerland. She is also a member of the Strategy and Policy Committee. We support the EPG in the strategic areas of education for girls, out-of-school children and young children through political dialogue and joint programming in the sector. In 2015, we contributed 12 million hundred and ten thousand euros to the GPE. Niger received four funding from the EPG to support the achievement of education objectives: $5 million for 2004-2005, $8 million for 2005-2008, $7 million for 2009-2012 and $8 million for 2014-2018. Due to the division of labour among donors, Belgium cannot be present in all sectors. Moreover, other bilateral and multilateral donors are active in the education sector in Niger and are investing significant resources. Technical and vocational training, which is poorly developed in the country, is supported in particular by Luxembourg and Switzerland.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stress the need to remain attentive to these financings from multilateral donors. We were able to realise on the spot that, if actions were well undertaken - I do not deny it - parliamentarians and actors on the ground were not necessarily informed of them. Some tools are developed, but their ownership and dissemination do not seem to be optimal. We must therefore ensure that the means given to projects by multilateral actors can achieve the objectives and, consequently, the people concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u10	Mr Minister, here we are again with an item on the Belgian Food Security Fund (BSF). I felt you wanted to go into this. At the last meeting of the FBSA working group, we learned that you are apparently going to amend the National Lottery Act in order to guarantee the current share of development cooperation in the future. Minister, can you confirm that? What is the timetable for this possible amendment? Will this Lottery budget be dedicated to development cooperation as a whole or to food security in a specific way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u11	Mrs Grovonius, I confirm my intention to allocate the part of the profits of the National Lottery, which was previously allocated to the FBSA, to development cooperation and more specifically to food security and agriculture. To this end, I have already consulted with the Minister of Budget responsible for the National Lottery, in order to prepare the amendment, in the last quarter of 2016, of the legal and regulatory texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u12	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u13	Mr.President, Minister, in his new report on the situation of children in the world 2016 The equal opportunities for every child, UNICEF is taking a bitter look at what will happen by 2030 if governments, donors, businesses and international organizations do not make efforts to address the needs of the world's most vulnerable children. However, the report also contains a message of hope: if we take the fight against inequality seriously, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will be achieved automatically. Minister, can you take stock of the action and the funds that your department has made available for this topic? Have you targeted the most vulnerable children? Is an assessment of the impact of the budget on children planned? Have you considered so-called integrated, child-specific solutions, particularly in the context of humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u14	Mrs Grovonius, the UNICEF report on the situation of children in the world 2016 targets, in fact, equal opportunities for every child. The report examines the current situation and rightly draws attention to the importance of taking into account the most vulnerable. The findings of the report are also fully in line with Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals, which aim to leave no one behind. Development Cooperation has taken various steps to contribute to the fight against inequality. Priority is given to the poorest countries. Of the 14 bilateral cooperation countries, 12 are least developed countries. Secondly, Development Cooperation targets the most vulnerable people, including children, as beneficiaries. In order to reach the most vulnerable, Belgian Cooperation is developing the rights-based approach. Finally, with regard to children, the Belgian Cooperation selected UNICEF as its main partner in promoting the rights of the child. This partnership is quite appropriate and indispensable. UNICEF has an international mandate. His expertise is recognized and the collaboration is fruitful. A new partnership agreement will therefore be signed with UNICEF in the coming weeks. This year, support for UNICEF general resources amounts to €17 million, the same amount for 2014 and 2015. The evaluation of the impact of this budget on children is not easy to carry out, since Belgian cooperation is carried out through different partners. This implies that the partners themselves carry out this evaluation and share the results. This is the case for UNICEF, which recently conducted a mid-term review of its strategic plan and shared results in seven focus areas: health, HIV/AIDS, water sanitation, nutrition, education, protection and social inclusion. Gender equality is integrated into each priority area. To reach the most vulnerable, UNICEF has developed the equity strategy. Belgian Cooperation is therefore contributing, together with its partners, to the fight against inequalities and aims to take into account the most vulnerable. Children who are victims of conflict must be taken into account among the most vulnerable. For this reason, it is essential that Belgian Cooperation has an important budget for humanitarian aid. Belgium allocates its humanitarian funding on the basis of the needs arising from analyses prepared by recognized international organizations such as ICRC and OCHA. If the results of these analyses show that, in a particular crisis, children are the subject of significant humanitarian needs, Belgium will finance activities specifically aimed at them. The implementation of these actions, for example through an integrated approach, depends on the strategy of the partners on the ground. The Belgian humanitarian aid strategy has five thematic priorities, including protection, with particular attention to children. It should be noted that UNICEF is also an important partner of Belgium for humanitarian assistance in responding to the needs of children in situations of humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u16	After the cooperation programme with Niger, I also wanted to ask you a few questions about the one concerning Mali. This 2017-2020 cooperation programme with Mali has just been signed. It covers a period of four years (2016-2019) and amounts to 31.1 million euros. Focusing on human rights and sustainable economic growth, it also focuses on capacity-building and innovation. Belgium's presence in Mali is not limited to cooperation alone, but also to security. On 4 July, Belgium took over the command of the European Training Mission in Mali (EUTM Mali) for a period of one year. On this occasion, the Belgian military presence will increase from 90 to 175 troops. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you give us the budget allocation key for the new program in Mali, by sector and type of activity? What priority will be given to innovation and entrepreneurship development in a country where poverty and conflict-related survival situations are evident? You rightly stated that there is no development possible without security and that without security there is no development. What, then, is the link between this cooperation programme and the Belgian and European military presence on the spot? Does this cooperation programme form part of a 3D strategy (development, diplomacy and defence) for Belgium in this partner country, particularly in the choice of Belgian cooperation and defence regions? Has there been any consultation between you and your colleague Mr Vandeput on this cooperation programme and the presence of military personnel on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u17	(...) consists of two sectoral programmes and one one ad hoc intervention. The Human rights-based approach and institutional reforms for better local governance of EUR 11.5 million aim to strengthen the capacity of the Koulikoro region and the central state to deliver basic public services through decentralized and deconcentrated structures in accordance with the principles of good governance and gender equality. The EUR 16 million programme "Sustainable and inclusive economic growth by promoting rural development and food security" aims to contribute to wealth creation through attention to these value chains (production, processing, distribution, consumption), development poles and the search for sustainable jobs. The cross-cutting programme for capacity-building of institutions and civil society actors in the Koulikoro region and at central level, amounting to €3.5 million, by multisectoral nature, is focused on two strands. On the one hand, strengthening individual, organizational and institutional skills and supporting regional structures in the priority areas of the programme. On the other hand, the funding of one-off initiatives that could lead to innovation for the two sectors mentioned above. Through the new cooperation programme, Belgium is committed to supporting the promotion of entrepreneurship, the creation of an enabling environment for business start-ups, the facilitation of access to finance and the monitoring of enterprises. The strategy is to strengthen regional public institutions and promote economic development in the Koulikoro region. Belgium will focus its support on the livestock sub-sector, which is less funded in this region where there are a limited number of technical and financial partners. The new cooperation programme therefore envisages supporting job creation through the development of livestock-related activities in the Koulikoro region, as well as support for pastoralism in northern Mali. Belgian engagement in Mali follows a comprehensive approach combining diplomatic, development and security approaches. This approach is in line with the European Union's strategy for the security and development of the Sahel. Development cooperation actions are part of a global framework. To contribute to the stability and unity of the country, Belgium will continue to support security and military system reforms through ongoing support to EUTM, EUCAP and MINUSMA. During the preparation of the new Mali-Belgium cooperation programme, several meetings were held with departments from various backgrounds, including the Finance FPS. A Sahel interdepartmental meeting brings together all relevant departments and departments on a monthly basis in order to strengthen the coordination of actions in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u18	Mr Minister, have you had any consultation with your colleague Mr Vandeput?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u19	Yes, a consultation took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic479x.u21	I warned Mr Calomne and Mr Blanchart, but I don't see them. I therefore propose that Questions Nos 11915 and 11916 by Mr Calomne and No. Mr Blanchart's 12153 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Claerhout's 12895 question will also be converted into a written question.
