ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your offer to come and answer the questions this week. Question No 11551 by Mrs Daphné Dumery is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u2	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I hope you have had a good holiday too. The North Sea certainly enjoyed it. It was beautiful weather. By the way, we still enjoy a beautiful late summer on the coast. I even got a cold from the air conditioning, so I need some air. Aquaculture and sustainable fishing are very important and very close to you. The same goes for your predecessor. In his policy paper, Bart Tommelein announced that he wanted to focus on their development as an economic activity, especially around the wind farms. This includes, for example, mussel farming but also the commercialisation of seaweed. You know that there is a lot going on in that regard. Is it true, Mr Secretary of State, that you will be presenting a vision paper on aquaculture this year? Where do you stand with that? Can you give us the timing? Slightly more sensitive is the question of the marine spatial plan. You know that fishermen are concerned that they fear that they will not have enough space. I think we should pay attention to this. After all, it is precisely those fishermen who want to make sustainable fishing their niche. We want to put our own fishing on the market as better than the rest, especially sustainable aquaculture and sustainable fishing. So I wonder if it is possible, for example, to provide space for the cultivation of seaweed in the marine spatial plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, thank you for your question. Aquaculture does indeed have a special significance for me. I'm a biotechnologist from training. You know that the university is already working very hard to be active abroad in the field of aquaculture. Aquaculture is still on the rise. In recent years we have seen a doubling of the number of projects in which fish, mussels or seaweed are grown. In Europe everything remains stable and I believe that Belgium should play an effective leading role in this area. All partners will have to sit around the table. The link to your second question is clear. If we are to define clear zones in the marine spatial plan, what we have done, we must wait for private partners to carry out projects between the wind farms or elsewhere. It is also important to ensure that aquaculture projects that are requested are carried out in a sustainable way. So the essence of our policy is to delineate, to ensure that private partners can be established and to ensure that the projects are carried out in a sustainable way. In the context of the North Sea vision that we are developing and of the revision of the marine spatial plan, we are also considering whether we should define additional areas where aquaculture can be promoted. I share your opinion when you say that the different stakeholders must be taken into account. A marine spatial plan is made for everyone active in the North Sea. We must ensure that, among other things, fishermen and energy issues can also be addressed. I haven't been idle this summer. For example, I visited the Rederscentrale to discuss the issue and to explore how stakeholders can participate in our North Sea vision 2050 and the revision of the marine spatial plan in a good and open way. I therefore share the objectives. I think, above all, that we should do everything we can to continue to warm up private partners to invest in aquaculture. As is often the case in Belgium, we have a research history. Now it is also about commercialisation, activation and planning. I believe that we need to step up our efforts so that people are aware of the possibilities and options that exist in our North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and certainly for your concern to take account of all stakeholders on the ground. In my view, there are no contradictions between commercial interests in developing aquaculture and traditional fishing. The fishermen sometimes feel, if they want to play along, that they should also jump on that cart or in this case on that ship. I hear a vision and I like it. We share that view. It is also true that we must work on this. However, I would like to know how this will be done and what the timing is. This could perhaps be discussed at a forthcoming meeting. The world is not standing still, and our neighbouring countries are already working in this area. I believe that we should now be at the forefront, so that we may be able to move beyond our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u5	When you came to present your strategic note, you talked about it while indicating that few aquaculture projects in the North Sea were planned. When you come to present the 2017 budget, will your memo on this topic be ready? Otherwise, we can schedule a committee meeting as soon as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u6	To be clear, I can tell you that we are preparing a note with a longer-term vision. In principle, we will begin discussions with the stakeholders in December. In this way, we will see how to improve the relationships between the different partners. We will then be able to present this note to you. Secondly, it is necessary for the private sector to be able to invest in this project. Some entrepreneurs have to take risks. We must therefore talk about the constraints they are subject to in Belgium, whereas they are non-existent in the Netherlands or in France – which explains why they are more active than at home. I think that this vision will help us to identify the various constraints that hinder the development of aquaculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u7	We will therefore regularly take stock when we have more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns a stick horse of mine: the port of Zeebrugge. That port has a difficult hinterland connection to inland waterway transport. It is a sensitive dossier, and I have accepted that it will not be realised as I had imagined. However, there is still the estuary sailing and the KB of 8 March 2007 that defines this estuary sailing. It describes the conditions which make estuary navigation legally possible. In practice, these rules are too strict, it is almost impossible for an entrepreneur to venture into estuary shipping to be commercially profitable. An adaptation of this RB is required, at least to open up the port of Zeebrugge by inland waterways. My questions on this are as follows. What progress has been made with the expansion of the RB, which regulates estuary shipping, in order to make it possible for inland waterway transport along our coasts? What steps have you already taken in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u9	Mrs Dumery, everything begins with dialogue. I visited the port of Zeebrugge a few months ago, as a Member of the European Parliament before that, so I know the problem of short sea shipping. We absolutely must focus on this dossier, because it can bring added value to the port of Zeebrugge. The hinterland connections would also benefit from this. So I know the problem and I will try to deal with it. You refer to the royal decree that lays down the technical requirements that partly result from security. The situation at sea is a stronger wave, more current............................................................................................................................................... There is now a university study investigating whether technical changes to the legislation should be made. Once that study is completed, we can work with it. Indeed, some of the powers lie with my colleague Ben Weyts, at the Flemish level. I see him soon, we can then continue the discussions that have been initiated under my predecessor in a constructive manner. In any case, it could be a breakthrough for the port of Zeebrugge if the short sea shipping could happen in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Of course, safety is above all else. However, we have also seen, with regard to the royal decision on water sports, that it was a very difficult task to convince everyone that there was a need for an adjustment that could be achieved in practice. The counter argument was always that safety was above all else. Dialogue on the subject is therefore necessary. If, with the same enthusiasm as the royal decree concerning water sports, you can change the current royal decree in the right way, then you have added something on your palmares.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u11	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I am bothering you with legislative work. As far as the North Sea is concerned, this is not always evident, certainly not with the current division of powers which is also in Flanders. People who do pleasure in the North Sea complain about rules that apply to us, while they are not imposed in neighbouring countries. Here one must have additional crew and an additional skipper on board. If you want to sail with people who want to fish, you usually do so under the Dutch flag because it is much smoother there. Surely it cannot be the intention to apply the legislation to pleasure boating in such a way that virtually nothing is possible, when it can be done a few kilometres further? It is impossible for a Belgian skipper to have to meet other conditions than his Dutch colleague. If you have been to the Redderscentrale, you will undoubtedly have been told the same story there. I put some pressure on your shoulders, Mr Secretary of State, to change this. I believe that you will have to consult with your colleague, Mr Bellot, who is responsible for inland waterways. Fun is taking place both on inland waterways and on the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea of the Sea Have you had any discussions on this? Can you explain more about your objectives in this dossier? What initiatives will you take in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, I have rather broad shoulders that have not been reduced by the good food during the holidays. I share your view that the legislation needs to be revised effectively. Many of the provisions relating to pleasure shipping are fragmented or obsolete. I believe that we must do everything in our power to make this legislation clearer and more transparent for the Belgian enthusiasts. We must take account of the need for a proper balance between safety and, on the one hand, pleasure craft. At the moment we are looking at how we can tackle a number of elements in a number of working groups of the Federaal Consultation Platform Pleuziervaart. The most important element is the redrafting, where there are the greatest differences with our neighbouring countries. We must think about a certificate that is more or less similar to that for inland waterways. This seems to me to be an acceptable safety solution because I do not want to go very far and extreme. After all, it should not be captains for a long time! I believe that we need to find a proper balance there. Then the equipment is also very important. The KB in this respect dates back to 1966. I suppose there has been a change in technology in the meantime. I do not think that led lighting was available in 1966. I'm also thinking about the flare and the like. We need to consider how the equipment can be adapted to the current technology available, which is much better and more feasible for the pleasure boaters. A third important point is the registration, and I am looking into whether we can replace the flag letter that our Belgian vessels should have with an immobilisation, such as for inland waterways. So there would be one document that could be used both on inland waterways and in the North Sea. These are a number of issues that are being discussed today in the federal consultation platform. In addition, there is the problem of commercial pleasure boating. For those who rent vessels or take people with them, I think the obligation is greater because they deal with the lives and safety of others. We are looking at how we can find a good solution there, in line with both AMO and the other legislation in the neighbouring countries. The intention is to start a public consultation in the first quarter of next year, so as to have a proposal open to comments and corrections. The aim is to create a new KB, much simpler, much more transparent and much more focused on safety, but fully balanced with the fact that people also want to use their recreational craft. Ports are not intended to remain full. When the weather is good, people are supposed to be able to sail safely with their family and friends and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u13	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. One of the stumbling blocks is, after all, international law. It will not be evident to draw up an RB in accordance with international law. I've been trying to figure out this file. It's not obvious. When I hear exactly what is needed, that is the distinction between 500 tons and 200 tons, so the size of the ship. We see that international legislation is based mainly on +500 tonnes. Someone with a smaller boat must meet requirements that are actually absurd for such a small ship. If we could do something that would be feasible in the short term, it would be to achieve something in relation to that distinction. For the rest, we are likely to stumble in this legislative period over opinions from above. The equipment is the least of the problems. If the international treaties require negotiations with neighbouring countries, then we have left for a long time. The pleasure boating is not served by that. The distinction between small and large ships must be realised in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u14	The latest reform on inland navigation has changed the distribution of competences and therefore your powers of action. Does this complicate things or are they different registers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u15	No, we have always been able to work together when the competencies were not exclusively federal. We have already established good relations with the different regional levels. All stakeholders are still involved, including the different regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u16	Question No 12480 by Mr Gilles Foret is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 13280 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, every year more than 12 million tonnes of plastic waste are added in seas and oceans worldwide. A more important figure is that 80% of plastic in the sea originates from land and 20% comes from sea-related activities. When presenting your policy paper, you said you would draw up an action plan, which you confirmed and endorsed at a press conference at the beginning of September. That's a good thing. You indicated that 20 000 tonnes of waste were dumped every year in the North Sea. This, of course, damages the fauna and flora of the North Sea, with the risk of a disturbance of the ecological balance. The largest source of marine plastic pollution comes from litter on land and is therefore avoidable. Of course, this will also require good cooperation with the Regions, which are responsible for dealing with waste collection and treatment on land. However, a number of measures can also be taken at the federal level, which is mainly due to the implementation of the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive. In addition to the financial cost of that waste, the oceans will in the long run contain more plastic than fish. I'm giving a hallucinating grade. A report shows that in 2014 the ratio between plastic and fish was 1 versus 5. In 2015 it will move to 1 versus 3. We would reach a 1/1 ratio in 2050, which is shocking as a figure. So there must be an important turnaround. You said yourself that you want to set up some blue deals. I will not list them all here because they are in the written preparation of my question. I'll go to the questions. First of all... Do you have specific objectives that you want to achieve in terms of the amount of plastic in the North Sea? In other words, how many tons by when? Secondly, can you give me an overview of the blue deals you will be working out in the coming years to reduce the amount of plastic in the North Sea? Thirdly, can you give me an overview of the amount of waste that has been recovered from the North Sea by the Fishing for Litter project in the past? Fourthly, how will you map the waste streams (80 % of total waste 20%)? Fifth, 80% of all plastic flows come from the country. What partnerships have you already entered into with the Regions or will you enter into with them to achieve your goals? Sixthly, logically, 20% of the flows come from the sea. Is it already clear to you where they come from and how they can be mapped? Maybe you've mapped them yet? The most important question is: how will you reduce and stop these waste streams?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, you asked a good question. It is a problem which is very close to my heart. We must make this a common objective, including with the Members of Parliament who are in favour of the idea. I am responsible for the management and monitoring of the marine environment in the North Sea. That's my job. We must start at the lowest level. This means that we must first of all raise awareness. After all, the problem is still not high enough on the agenda. Many people still believe that the North Sea is a grey soup, on which not much happens and in which there is not much life. That is not true, however. I have been to Nieuwpoort this weekend, where a very large project has been put in place, for example to remove old fishing nets from the North Sea and therefore to see marine life return. You are right when you say that some of the problems start at sea. However, a large part of it starts on land. There too, there is a need for sensitisation. This week there was the project "Ten minutes a day" in Antwerp. This means asking for waste and litter to be disposed of ten minutes a day. They're all waste that doesn't end up in the North Sea. After all, all residual waste ends up in the North Sea. Sensitising and raising the agenda in Flanders, in Belgium but also in Europe, must therefore be the first objective of all of us. After all, this is an international problem. It is not limited to our Belgian coast or our Belgian North Sea alone. It's about a worldwide rising production of plastics. Today it is about 300 million tonnes. In the past, especially in the 1950s, that was 1 million tonnes. So now that's times 300. After all, all waste ends up in the water. In addition, we must be aware that it is not just about large plastic bags, fishing nets and such things, but also about microplastics. That is another problem, because the microplastics are sometimes stuck and when fish get them, they end up on our plate. We are literally in a circular story and we must try to break that circle. In concrete terms, I think that we should first look at the list of national and international actions and various programmes that exist today. I am referring, for example, to the framework directives on the marine strategy, but also to Belgian measures that we have already taken. After that listing, we can see where we're prioritizing. For one piece it has to do with sensitisation, for example in marinas, the prevention of discharges from the bunkering of fishing vessels, but also, for example, helping fishermen to land their waste and not dump it at sea. I also think that we should invest more in research. This requires cooperation with the partners in the field and, in part, with the regions. Research into this problem needs to be improved, because today we do not have enough data. You have asked me, among other things, about the KPIs, what objectives we want to achieve. Well, we must first identify the size of the problem and know where it comes from before we can tell where and how best to intervene in the most efficient way. In the first place, therefore, we are looking at what already exists, and we will try to strengthen it, inter alia, by bringing these actions and programmes closer together. The blue deals, of course, serve to get stakeholders and different governments around the table each time. I hope that we will be able to present some things this year. We've already made some deals. For example, we have brought all the users of our North Sea around the table to ensure that awareness is raised and to discuss how, sometimes with small practical things, we can take steps forward. The different levels of government are involved. We have been in contact with the Flemish government, with the provincial board of West Flanders, with the various coastal mayors and directors. They have to commit themselves to getting involved in that story. Among other things, it's about the story of Fishing for Litter. We have seen very clearly the results achieved in this respect. The project, however, has fallen silent due to problems with SDVO. We must therefore consider how we can also involve NGOs and other partners in our projects again and better. By the end of this year, we should reinvigorate the project Fishing for Litter. We also had a discussion with the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) to see if we can make an assessment of this problem. We want to see how we can get better scientifically based figures. Last but not least, there is the fact that Belgium really wants to get this issue on the European agenda. You referred to that earlier. Last week I gave a speech in the European Parliament to convince my former fellow Members of the European Parliament that this issue needs to be raised on the political agenda. When it comes to the environment, transport, fisheries, the various committees must be aware of the problems of microplastics at sea and of general pollution. I hope that I have outlined a general framework for our approach, and that I have identified some concrete measures that will answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. My questions about concrete actions seem to come a little too early. After all, you make it clear to me that you are at the stage of research and sensitisation, and so on. At the September press conference, you announced that you would tackle this problem with decisiveness. So my question is: what budget, what resources do you currently have at your disposal for sensitization, for listing and for research? That is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-13-54-commissie-ic487x.u20	We will follow closely the development of this issue.
