ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u1	Minister, when I submitted this question, the situation was different than it is today, but I would have liked to have had an answer to it. Despite everything, there are still strikers who consistently maintain their action, but fortunately there are fewer and fewer. At the suggestion of a number of prison directors, you have made the decision to send several prisoners on exceptional leave. This is not in itself illogical, as many prisoners could hardly receive visitors because of the strike. That is why they would be given exceptional penitentiary leave for about 14 days. That measure went into effect two weeks ago. I have a few questions, Minister. What are the conditions and criteria for detainees to qualify for this exceptional penitentiary leave? How many inmates have obtained this extraordinary penitentiary leave? If I could, I would have liked to have a division by prison. Are these prisoners expected to go back to prison after 14 days, or is there any possibility of an extension if the strike has not yet ended? To what extent will prisoners be followed during their extraordinary penitentiary leave? This will probably require additional efforts from the justice houses and police forces. Does this measure effectively allow the release of personnel and resources to allow prisoners who remain in prison to be visited in prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u2	Mrs De Wit, only prisoners who have not been convicted of acts of terrorism or of acts of vice can be granted an extended leave of absence. The total of their sentences should not exceed ten years of effective main prison sentence. They can't go through criminal detention. In addition, they must fulfil the following criterion: they have already received three 36-hour penitentiary leave, granted within the framework of the minister's powers or enjoy a measure of half-freedom. In addition to the special condition laid down in the framework of the leave they have already obtained, they must meet the following special conditions: be available by telephone at any time, register with the prison when the director gives the order and does not go abroad. In order to ensure that these prisoners are not placed in a dangerous situation, the Director shall also verify the feasibility of the measure, in particular the agreement of the reception environment and the means of subsistence. Last week there were 224 inmates on extended penitentiary leave. A dozen more prisoners were added this week. We have made the decision to extend the original 14 days of penitentiary leave once for a week. As before any leave, the King's Attorney will be informed. Article 14 of the Law on the external legal status of the Law of 17 May 2006 also applies. This means that if the convicted person seriously endangers the physical or psychological integrity of third parties, the King's Attorney can order his provisional arrest. In addition, the prisoner is obliged to comply with the conditions laid down for the extended penitentiary leave. In the event of non-compliance, the Director shall withdraw the modalities. The measure was taken for humanitarian reasons and allowed the beneficiary detainees to compensate for the lack of a common regime in the stabbing prisons. The measure also allowed more attention to be paid to those in detention who were less in number in the stabbing prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am glad to hear that there were a number of criteria and that not everyone has just been given penitentiary leave. It is of course good, because the conditions in the prisons were anything but optimal. I understand why that decision has been taken, but if it is extended it will soon be 14 days and then another week, it will take three weeks outside. If one is already inside, three weeks is an eternity to be out again, but it will pass far too quickly. I do not think it is obvious to have to go through the whole regime again. I sincerely hope that it has done them a good job and that they have enjoyed it, because after that, of course, they do not have much to offer. I hope this won't make living together any harder after that in prison. I also hope - and I think that is even more important - that things will finally be resolved and that we should not adopt such measures as would require ministers to give prisoners exceptional prison leave or the investigating judge to release people they would otherwise have taken in remand, simply because detention conditions would no longer allow otherwise. I understand, but I think this is really the reverse world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u4	Mr President, Minister, once in a while, at a quiet moment, I will look through the coalition agreement. I assume you will, too. In the coalition agreement I read something that interests me very much, in particular that there should be a rapid courtroom in every judicial district. You know I'm a fan of fast justice. Nowadays, a quick courtroom is mainly used for the trial of shoplifters or hooligans. The perpetrators of shoplifting in particular have been prosecuted in recent years through rapid law. Many arrondissements already have courtrooms, but not all. Mr Minister, in view of what is in the coalition agreement, I would like to ask you about the state of implementation of that point. How many percent of the judicial districts already have a rapid courtroom? Where isn't it? How many cases have been dealt with in the past few years in the courtrooms? How does that number evolve? How many compensations were to be paid in response to judgments of the Supreme Courts? How many percent of this is, of course, much more Rapid justice is mainly used in shoplifting cases, but other cases can also qualify for rapid justice. Can you give us an overview of the kind of things that we are talking about in practice? I ask this because I understand that there are increasing voices in order to expand the system of rapid justice or even to deal with some cases administratively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u5	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, as regards the number of arrondissements, you will understand that, in the time frame for answering an oral question, I cannot request figures or organise a global survey. It belongs to the jurisdiction of the President of the Court and in particular its rules of procedure for the establishment of a specific Quick Court. I therefore invite you to re-table this question in writing so that I can ask the courts and tribunals on this matter. Regarding the number of cases and the nature of the cases dealt with in Quick Law, I can provide you with figures from the statistical analysts of the College of Attorney General, who were requested by my policy cell at the end of 2015 for the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2014. In total, 11 733 suspects were subpoenaed by express law during that period. In the case of 6 738 suspects, this was done by means of an invocation by police report, while in the case of 4 995 subpoenas, they were sued through the police. 3 260 files dealing with theft and extortion, 1 621 about beatings and injuries and a total of 2 437 files on shoplifting. Rapid justice is therefore often used to deal with simple files in a fast and efficient manner. Unfortunately, as far as compensation is concerned, it is not possible to make a statistical extraction of the compensation paid to the civil parties, and certainly not specifically in the context of the rapid legal proceedings. Such data are not kept in the computer system and would require consultation of individual files, which would entail a disproportionate workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will ask the question again, in writing. I do, in part, understand, although I find it strange that you can give me all these figures on the type of cases, when we do not have many judicial districts and so it is quickly possible to find out where there is a rapid courtroom and where there is not. I will certainly ask that question again but in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u7	With regard to the figures relating to the Court of Justice, we have to make a telephone call to each of the Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u8	Justice doesn't know his clientele. We know that story. That's gonna improve someday, I've been told. If the computerization is about to be done, one will only have to press a button from a computer and the data will come out in no time. I will repeat that question in writing. I note that this is already a large number of issues, but I believe that there could be or could be many more. In fact, this would allow us to relieve the courts in a serious way, which is also an objective of the potpourri legislation that is being adopted here. This is one of the ways to do that. There are a lot of things that qualify for this, much more than just shoplifting, ordinary thefts or beatings and injuries. I believe there may still be cases to be considered. I am happy to follow this up, Minister, because I keep reading the government agreement on a regular basis. So I'm sure I'll come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u9	Questions Nos 12144 and 12166 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u10	Minister, fifteen days ago, when the two main Francophone unions refused the protocol on the management of staff in prisons, the next day, a working note drawing the contours of a minimum service in prisons "failed" in the press. Of course, this kind of information has only worsened the already tense atmosphere since imposing a minimum service in such a climate of social tension is a provocation. The reaction of the unions has not been delayed. Indeed, how can one envisage imposing a minimum service when in some prisons prison officers are not even in sufficient numbers to perform a regular service? Setting up a minimum service would first require empowering prison officers to perform their duties normally. Are they not permanently in a minimum service situation? If the drafting of this text does not relate to the current situation of strikes in prisons, how can it be explained that it is now appearing in a dangerous way? Can you assure us that this text is drawn up in consultation with the social partners? What's the timing? Do you intend to present it to the Council of Ministers in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u11	Mrs Özen, the way in which the note to which you refer came to the press is not clear to me. I did not broadcast it and therefore refer to my press release of 31 May. I have always said and have never hidden that the government's intention remains to achieve, in a later phase, a minimum negotiated service. This negotiation was explicitly agreed in the December 2014 protocol on the seven working groups between trade unions and myself. One of these working groups is dedicated to minimum service. Its elaboration is a long-standing requirement of the Council of Europe in the areas of the human rights of detainees. It is provided for in the government agreement. As I communicated on May 31, 2015, the unions and I have been in front of the social conciliator since September 2015 on the issue of minimum guaranteed service. The last meeting of the social conciliator in this regard took place on 9 May. I will not submit any draft text for social consultation if, when these texts are applied on a daily basis, social consultation is denied. I will continue discussions with the unions under the mediation of the social conciliator of the public services. My goal is to achieve a result by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a coincidence - the fault step by step -, if it happens suddenly, at a time when the context is already quite tense. You know the situation in the prisons. I'm reassured. I hope that the negotiations will take place in consultation with the trade unions, leading to a text that takes everyone's considerations into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u13	Mr President, Minister, in the light of what is happening in all federal public services, the movement of grunts within the judicial world is not fading. This is evidenced in particular by the manifestation of the judiciary in recent days against your new reform and the unprecedented economic measures that accompany it. A new gathering is expected on June 20th. You say you no longer believe in the management method for defining personnel needs. No doubt because you don't believe it anymore, you decide to open only part of the vacant positions to the executive. However, it is up to you, Minister, to ensure that the rule is respected and respected even when it concerns the personnel framework. As in many jurisdictions, 80 per cent of the judges' cadre cannot be filled. This is not only a question of the proper administration of justice, but also of respect for the rule of law. In this regard, the separation of powers is also being undermined, as judges fear that they will no longer be able to deliver justice worthy of the name as a 10% reduction in the budget by 2019 is planned. Belgium would spend only 0.5% of its budget on justice if the restrictions were applied, which would be one of the lowest rates in Europe. Needless to say, the judiciary loses its independence when it has to beg the executive for refinancing or when it no longer has the means to carry out its tasks. The judges considered that they had no choice but to demonstrate because, for all these reasons, their role as counter-power was shaken. Today, justice is crying. This is evidence of a real malaise that needs to be taken seriously. Minister, when will you take into consideration the legitimate demands of the judicial world, which go far beyond the specific interests of each of them to touch the heart of our democracy? Are you going to continue to affirm the need to pursue a reform that hides its real purpose rather poorly: a blind reduction in public spending and public service? Or can we hope for a real debate and, if necessary, for some points of your reform to be reviewed? What are your comments on the counter-proposals put forward by the judiciary on April 15, 2016 regarding the self-management plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u14	Mrs Özen, I did not wait for the judges' action to consult with them. During several meetings, I shared my concerns with their representatives and they shared theirs with us. My actions contain sufficient guarantees to ensure the proper functioning of justice, but I also believe that there is no other way than to pursue reforms within the justice system through constructive dialogue. Last year, the judiciary was able to make expenditures for a total of €1,849,500. This is the highest amount to date. In spite of the budgetary discipline imposed, justice will be able to have a comparable total this year, i.e. 1 832 400 euros. Comparing the expenditures that remained federal, justice has at least as many resources as in 2013 and 2014, when it spent 1,798,200 euros and 1,834,300 euros respectively. On the basis of Eurostat figures, the expenditure for courts and tribunals is EUR 96.97 per citizen, while the European average is EUR 96.33. The Belgian budget for courts and tribunals has remained virtually stable since 2010. It is about 0.27% of GDP. Staff costs account for the bulk of expenditure. More specifically, the issue of the filling of executives in courts and tribunals arises. As far as judges are concerned, this fill is currently 94.3 per cent for the seat: 1,553 judges from a cadre of 1,646 judges, and 88.9 per cent for the Public Prosecutor's Office: 830 prosecutors from a cadre of 934. In the case of judicial staff, 87.97 per cent is filled for registry staff: 4,203 members of a 4,779 and 87.30 per cent for prosecutors' secretariats, 2,160 staff members of a 2,474 cadre. For courts and tribunals, recruitment has continued since the Government took office: 419 vacancies for judges have been opened for applications out of a total of 2,583, and 221 posts have been filled by appointment; 141 cases are under way and 83 have been re-published for lack of successful candidates or are yet to be re-published. With regard to judicial personnel, 703 vacancies had been published since the entry into office of the Government; 396 had been filled and 307 had to be republished for lack of successful candidates. For the self-management project, I have always consulted the colleges of the courts and the public prosecutor's office on the further implementation of this project. I proposed a model in the form of a text. The Colleges have made their proposals. The dialogue will continue with a view to achieving a management model that ensures self-sustaining management that allows an objective and equitable allocation of resources with transparent accountability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u15	Minister, I will not fail to analyse the figures you have provided today. I thank you for this because they are quite detailed. However, when I hear you, I am quite surprised because the judiciary is not a profession that is used to strike, protest or claim. I believe that the current situation is widespread throughout the country and is not limited to Brussels. They fear that they will not have the budget to carry out their mission, to conduct effective justice and to have sufficient independence. You say you've worked with them but between consulting and taking into account or integrating their demands in order to be able to conduct effective justice, I have the impression that there is a gap between what you say and what the judiciary claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u16	Mr President, Minister, when the law on the reform of divorce was adopted here in 2007, a measure of administrative simplification, in particular the collection of data by the Registry, was included. This means that, as soon as the divorce is sought, the Registry itself seeks a number of information and documents. These include proofs of identity, nationality, registration in the population, aliens or guards register. The Registrar shall check the information on the basis of the National Register. The parties shall also be exempted from the presentation of instruments of birth and the marriage certificate. In the meantime, we are almost ten years after the adoption of the reform of divorce. A private survey in my province of West Flanders shows that the data collection law is hardly applied by the Registry. The majority of the Registrys state that it is still up to the parties themselves to collect those documents. The responsibility of the Registrys for this is that the collection of the data itself entails a great deal of additional administrative work, while they are already under great time pressure due to understaffing. When this law was adopted, additional staff were not provided so that the Registry is in a time-consuming situation and cannot take on this legal task. I have the following questions. Firstly, do you consider it useful to ask a global question or do you have an overall view of whether or not to apply this provision of the law by the Registrys? Secondly, are you aware of the time constraints under which the Registrys work today? Thirdly, is the request for the documents, in your opinion, one of the key tasks of a Registry? Fourthly, do you think that this provision should be retained in the law? If so, why? If not, are you planning an initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye, administrative simplification by introducing the principle of unique data collection by the Registrys in the context of divorce proceedings was introduced by the law of 27 April 2007 for divorce on the basis of irreparable disruption and subsequently extended to divorce by mutual consent, by the law of 14 January 2013. The data to be collected by the Registrys therefore relate primarily to the personal data contained in the National Register as set out in Articles 1254, 1, and 1288a, § 1 of the Civil Code. The same principle also applies to civil status documents drawn up or transferred in Belgium. These documents may be requested directly from the competent civil status officials and exchanged by e-mail or fax in order to avoid delays in the legal procedure. Demanding the parties to submit these documents themselves would be difficult to justify today, given the availability of these data through the National Register and civil servants. Indeed, it is one of the key tasks of the government in view of the only once law in force since 5 May 2014 which aims to simplify the administrative obligations of citizens and businesses. This law prohibits federal governments from requesting data previously requested by the government from citizens and businesses. The available data should be reused. This means, in concrete terms, that federal administrations should use the so-called authentic sources such as the National Register. The deletion of this provision is therefore not a matter for discussion. However, foreign documents of civil status which have not been transferred to Belgium or whose place of transfer is unknown must be submitted by the parties themselves. The application by the Registrys shall not apply either to interim proceedings or to persons entered in the waiting register. Since it is always possible that the Registrys may not collect all the information in good time, Articles 1254, 4 and 1288a respectively, § 4 still allow the court to invite the most qualified party to complete the file. Each party may also take the initiative to compile the file at any time. However, this exception should not result in the courts systematically exempting themselves from the obligation to ask and the parties from providing the necessary documents themselves. A brief survey shows that today's practice in the various departments and arrondissements is very diverse. Apparently, there are courts that systematically request the data themselves while others still have the data made available to the citizen. The law dates back to 2007 and the problem has been raised several times in the past, among others by yourself. So it's not new. My predecessor replied that since 2012 it has been technically possible to consult the National Register with any computer connected to the network of Justice and that all courts have access to the National Register. Each member of staff may have an e-identity reader. However, it should also be noted that it is very difficult for the heavily taxed Registrys to consult the National Register in these files. I fully understand the argument of the workload. My services are now investigating how we can solve that problem. Until then, it is understandable that citizens should be required to provide their own certificates, because it is now easy for a court-seeker to do so in the municipality. In order to reduce the workload at the Registrys in general, I have already taken a number of measures in the potpourri laws, such as the introduction of a procedure of undisputed monetary debts which will enter into force shortly. I would also like to continue to focus on the reduction of workload at the Registry by transferring, inter alia, the declaration of rejection or acceptance under the privilege of the estate description to the notary, as I announced in the Justice Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember, in particular, that your own brief question has shown that, in practice, the situations are very different, in the sense that one Registry does what the law says, but not the other. You also admit that it is still difficult to consult the National Register, and you understand that the Registrys do not always have the time to do so. The result is, however, that a dossier that could be opened is postponed because the documents are still missing. In practice, I find that parties usually immediately request the documents themselves and attach them to the file, so that there is no waste of time. I note that you acknowledge the problem and will do everything in your power to put it right. Good practices may be exchanged between the Registrys, because some seem to succeed, others do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u19	Mrs Griet Smaers has announced that she will not come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u20	Mr Minister, on 22 April 2015, I asked you question 3753, and you replied that work was still ongoing on the connection of the EPIS system with the National Register. EPIS stands for Exclusive Persons Information System and it is a system that is designed to ensure that excluded players are prevented from real or virtual gambling in casinos or on websites. We are now more than a year away, so I am looking forward to the state of play. The EPIS system is an instrument that we expect to see in the fight against gambling addiction. In the past, there have been some weaknesses in the control system, for example because there has not yet been a structural link with the National Register, and this has still to be worked on, as you have also answered a question from my colleague Pol Van Den Driessche. This makes it easy in practice for excluded players, a priority weak group, to remain active on gambling websites. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. In the meantime, what is the status of the connection with the National Register? What changes have been made to the identity control system? What's changed since my question last year? In the meantime, if the coupling is in place, what are the first results? Is the system working properly? What evaluation does the Gaming Commission itself make? What about the investment for better market monitoring? What are the first results of this monitoring? Do we get value for money? An additional problem was that excluded players received targeted personal invitations and advertisements, including those licensed operators who had to block them. Anyone who ever played with a licensed operator, but stopped playing with it and asked for exclusion or was legally excluded, continued to receive individual invitations. For example, it asked whether the person concerned would make another guess because he or she had not been noticed for some time. Ethically, that is not too pure, and there are also legal problems in this regard. What steps have been taken in the meantime against such practices? What evolutions are taking place at European level? Is there a solution for dubious websites operating with a licence from another European Member State or even from Gibraltar, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u21	As early as April 2015, I asked the Gaming Commission to work on advertising rules that limit the proliferation of advertising messages for the gambling sector. In the first instance, a covenant was envisaged, for which the Jury for Ethics in the field of advertising was called upon. However, should a covenant not bring any relief, regulatory action would be taken through a royal decree. Since a covenant is auto-regulatory, the parties must reach an agreement between themselves, which has not been done so far. The Gaming Commission therefore also drew up a draft from KB, which was presented for the first time at the meeting on 13 April, but on which no opinion has yet been given. Particular attention should indeed be paid to family programmes and frequently watched sports competitions, such as the European Football Championship, as well as to push mail for gambling to excluded players. The internet was notified in 2014 and is currently being adapted to the European comments. I have asked the secretariat of the Gaming Commission to work on these decisions on several occasions, precisely because the online world is gaining in importance. The number of gaming devices is legally regulated. The existing ceilings also need to be revised for a number of gaming devices. For example, licences for slot machines are not currently opened if new places are opened. In this way, efforts are made to reduce the ceiling to 150 in an acceptable way. There are 176 licences currently in force. An opinion was also adopted for betting offices at the meeting of the Gaming Commission on 1 June 2016, proposing to lower the ceiling at KB from 1 000 to 700. I asked whether a reduction to 600 could no longer be appropriate, given that there are only 640 betting agencies active today. Due to the lack of a regulatory framework and the lack of sufficient expertise on the one hand, it is currently not possible for the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission to carry out systematic checks on online gambling. However, ad hoc checks are carried out in response to a complaint. I hope to increase the control capacity of the Game Commission with two police officers in the context of the interdepartmental commission on terrorism and radicalisation, given that some online gambling channels can be used in money laundering. A distinction should be made between the EPIS database on the one hand, whereby players are checked on the basis of their name, first name and date of birth, and the player profiles on the other hand, e-games, where all data of the registered player are recorded, linked to his login. Only for e-games it is necessary to validate. It is currently possible to carry out a validation with the National Register. This is done so far in bulk, about four times a year. In doing so, the entire file will be forwarded to the National Register and checked. These bulk validations already blocked more than 143 000 profiles, for example because the ID was wrong, because it did not exist or because the player died. A continuous live validation is not yet done because it requires a thorough adjustment of the existing program performances, a process that is in full swing. A business plan was adopted at the December 2015 committee meeting to introduce this in three stages. This adjustment of the size software amounts to 210 000 euros for which there has been a principle approval since 26 May 2016. Switching from a bulk to a live validation requires additional budgetary resources of EUR 75 000. This is also the reason why the Treasury inspection has not approved the demand for a redistribution of ICT resources to personnel resources from the Gaming Commission. In accordance with European legislation and case law, each Member State is free to pursue its own gambling policy with a view, inter alia, to the protection of players. Websites that offer their services in Belgium without a license are blocked by a stop page after being blacklisted. This list is published on the website of the Gaming Commission and published through the Belgian Official Journal. In addition, every licensed operator of gambling over the internet must have a server on Belgian territory so that effective control is possible. In accordance with Article 58 (3) of the Gaming Act, credit card payments are prohibited in class 2, 3 and 4 gaming facilities and for games of chance operated through information society instruments. All infringements thereof may be the subject of criminal proceedings pursuant to Article 63 of the Game Act or of an administrative fine pursuant to Article 15/3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answers to my questions and to the questions put by Mr Smaers, who were also quite right and express my concern. In fact, I have asked several questions about advertising in the past. Together with you, I note that there seems to be insufficient capacity to propose a well-thought-out advertising policy. There is a real need for reform in that Gaming Commission. As far as the EPIS system is concerned, validations are now carried out in bulk, four times a year. I wonder why they chose this as a temporary solution. A live validation doesn't strike me as such a big challenge. I come from the ICT sector myself. You mentioned huge amounts of money. I am surprised that these amounts are so high and that it takes so long. We need to step up our efforts to protect those who do not belong on these websites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 12246 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u24	Minister, I have had the moral obligation to hold a sabbatical period for questions relating to matters such as the operation of justice in Brussels, but I believe that it has now expired. I find what has come to my attention through the media regarding the organisation of an audit inquiry by the Supreme Court of Justice on the operation of the Brussels Court of Justice very striking. In the aftermath of the Dutroux case, we have provided for an external control of the judiciary. It is very important that there is confidence in the control body. That confidence has so far been almost unanimous in the magistrate, for which I would also formally like to thank them. One can sometimes agree or disagree with the reports of the Supreme Court of Justice, but one cannot deny that they have often produced a positive dynamic. I am thinking, for example, of the report by the Supreme Court of Justice before the courts of commerce in Brussels, where there were problems. The follow-up report has given rise to a positive response to many of the recommendations. It was followed up, with an improvement in its functioning, which is a good thing for the court in question, for justice in general and certainly for the right-holders. Your request for an audit before the courts of Brussels was justified. The Supreme Court of Justice has also rightly addressed this issue. Any procedural errors which give rise to release or acquittal are very sensitive to public opinion, especially here in the present case. We are talking about a suspected politician, even a Member of Parliament. For a public figure, things are even more sensitive. Is it true, Minister, that there would have been no or insufficient cooperation from the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels? Can you give us more clarity and details on this? If that information is correct, is the first President of the Brussels Appeals Court, who is the supervisory magistrate, taken in the event of refusal? Is he already aware of the file? Can it be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I am also following the situation in Brussels. I have another question for you later. However, as Mr Verherstraeten has pointed out, the question before us concerns the issue of Christian Van Eyken, which is a matter of media sensitivity and which makes a mistake in this particular case. An audit has been ordered in response to that error. Minister, at some point in the media, we hear from you, by means of a press release, that the Supreme Court of Justice must establish that there is no participation in an audit of the court whose chairman claims that there are staff shortages. It is striking that a chairman claims that the problem lies in the shortage of staff in his court, but that he refuses to cooperate in a court review, in order to find out exactly where the problems lie. My questions are somewhat in line with Mr Verherstraeten's questions. What's your response to the report? Are the findings that we have been allowed to read in the media correct? What are the reasons cited? I believe I have read somewhere in the media that the President has shown his willingness to cooperate in an audit, but that this should be done by mutual agreement. That seems strange to me. After all, an audit is an audit and always goes from one direction. The information must be at least available. What additional steps will or can you take to ensure that the audit is carried out anyway? In the meantime, have you had a conversation with the President of the Court who refuses to participate? What's the result? Have you had a discussion with the President of the Brussels Appeals Court on the refusal of the President of the Court of First Instance? What will be the consequences? Will a disciplinary procedure be initiated? Could you give me a copy of the letter you received from the Supreme Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u26	In a letter dated 7 June, the United Consultative and Research Commission of the Supreme Court of Justice informed that it did not have the useful information to audit the human resources management it intended to carry out in the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels because of the lack of cooperation of the President of that court. That information was provided to me in accordance with Article 259a-19, § 2a, of the Judicial Code. That provision provides that the Supreme Court of Justice shall inform the competent disciplinary authorities of the lack of cooperation of a magistrate by requesting that disciplinary proceedings be instituted. He shall at the same time inform the Minister of Justice. The Supreme Court of Justice informed the first President of the Court of Appeal of the lack of cooperation. On 4 February, I had asked the Supreme Court of Justice to organise an audit with the aim of making recommendations, through an analysis of the relevant aspects, which would optimise the functioning of the court, in particular on the functioning of the Management Committee, the flow of information on recruitment opportunities, initiatives for the development of the career of magistrates and staff, and the proportionate distribution of workload and human resources across the various sections of the court. The United Advisory and Research Committee, also referred to as the Committee, decided on its own initiative to carry out an audit on human resources management. More specifically, the Committee wanted to check whether the court has a strategic vision of human resources, a process of staff planning, a process for the flow of information on recruitment and mobility, a process for the development of competences and a process for the development of the career. On 1 March, the Committee sent a letter to the President of the Court for information needed to prepare the audit, but the letter remained without effect. Following a second letter without reply, on 12 April, a meeting was held between the President of the Court, Mr Hennart, the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Eric Staudt and two auditors. According to the Supreme Court of Justice, the President stated that he did not wish to participate in the audit. He wanted to participate in an audit that would investigate the real problems of the court. However, the committee insisted on the scope of the audit. On 21 April, following a repeated request from the committee for the information requested, the chairman provided her with a number of documents containing information only on the judicial staff and not on the magistrates. In an accompanying letter, the chairman considers it not insignificant that the committee did not consider it useful to meet him to define the framework of our work together. If on 27 April the Committee again asks for all documents to be received, stressing to the Chair that the documents should allow a complete picture of the state of staff in the court, the President replied on 12 May that they were removed from the audit which allowed the situation to be resolved by the court and that it would be better to leave it at that time. End of quote. At the end of January, the President of the French-speaking court stated that he would be a party to an audit. Last Friday, according to certain media, the President would have repeated his acceptance of an audit, provided that it was serious. The Committee, for its part, states that it has just requested all information on magistrate and judicial staff so that it can prepare the audit in court in the best circumstances. According to the Committee, the audit would also lead to an investigation of the staff situation in the court, and therefore to an objectivation. The Supreme Court of Justice has already carried out 15 audits, including at the District Court, the Police Court and the Police Office, the Brussels Commercial Court and two at the Brussels Appeals Court. The reports of these audits shall be published on the website of the Supreme Court of Justice. The Supreme Court therefore has some experience in auditing. The Supreme Court relies on the methodology of internal audit, which means that the audit is carried out on the basis of an independent, objective, systematic and methodological approach aimed at improving processes and structures, but not at evaluating individuals. However, this also means that an audit must be carried out in full independence and that the management of the audited service has no decision-making power over the scope and area of the audit. Just because the audit should be carried out independently by an independent body, in particular the Supreme Court of Justice, it is not appropriate for the Minister of Justice to take further steps in this regard. The lack of cooperation has been transferred to disciplinary authorities entirely in accordance with the Code of Justice by the Supreme Court of Justice. The Minister of Justice shall have no jurisdiction in disciplinary proceedings in the jurisdiction of the seat. Disciplinary law in respect of a President of a court shall be the exclusive competence of the first President of the appeal court. Pursuant to Article 259a-19, Paragraph 2a, last paragraph, the Disciplinary Board shall inform the Supreme Court of the action taken on the transfer of the file in a reasoned manner. Finally, I would like to refer to your proposal to take a legal initiative to give the Supreme Court more power. It could indeed be useful to examine what additional resources might be needed to allow the Supreme Court, in a case such as this, to exercise its statutory powers of investigation and audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. More than rightly, you referred to the independence of the Supreme Court, which he himself has always proved. An audit by the Supreme Court is not an audit à charge, but an audit which examines the strengths and the less strong points, on the basis of which improvements are suggested, as he has done on a number of occasions. The Supreme Court must be able to investigate matters in independence and determine how this is done and decide for itself on the information it deems necessary to carry out that investigation fully. You will probably agree with that, Minister. Mr President, in the Minister's reply I hear clear indications of obstruction under the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance. I deeply regret that. His responsibility is crushing on the trust citizens should have in justice. Minister, you also pointed out that the President of the Court also made it appear that he was open to an audit. However, it does not determine when an audit is serious or not. He doesn't decide what the real problems of a court are. That determines the auditor, but not the courts under investigation - it is not an investigation of a person. In my view, this is the position that virtually the majority of the magistrate has always applied throughout the country. Indeed, the ball is now in the camp of the first President of the Brussels appeal court. The case was brought before him and he must now conduct a disciplinary investigation, thoroughly and as soon as possible in view of the importance and urgency of that dossier. As far as I am concerned, this omission would involve a refusal of law. Minister, I am not in favour of creating legislation for exceptional situations; we still do so too often. I repeat that virtually the majority of the magistrate actually cooperates perfectly with the Supreme Court of Justice. However, I think this is a matter of principle. If we allow this to happen, if the first President of the Court of Appeal does not assume his legal responsibility in this matter, then we will make the external audit without object. We will then make a dead letter of a provision which we have constitutionally anchored, with more than a two-thirds majority. For this reason, I assume that the person concerned will assume his responsibility in this matter. Mr Minister, in future we will have to give more power to the Supreme Court of Justice. I therefore welcome your desire to support legislative initiatives in this area, of course within the constitutional context and with respect for the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u28	Minister, I have to go along with that. I have heard the story and I think it is quite clear that if letters are not answered, there really is obstruction and even malice. We all know Mr Hennart in the meantime: he is always the first to make statements in the press; he does not shy the media at all and raises a particular problem, but if one wants to investigate the problem of resolving it, he does not want to cooperate. That's way out of my league. This can't be happening. It is not possible for a magistrate to come into the media constantly to do politics, but refuses to participate in a review of his own court for which he is responsible, thereby harming the seeker. It is now up to the first President to examine this matter thoroughly, and I think it is time to link sanctions to that. The magistrates must apply the law and indeed they are not above the law themselves. As far as the Supreme Court of Justice is concerned, it is also stated in the coalition agreement that this must be examined. I do not yet have an opinion on this, but we do need to consider how the audits can be enforced more. I have another question with regard to the Brussels court, which might fit in perfectly with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I was also informed by the Supreme Court of Justice of its position on the transfer of staff from the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels to the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels last year. As a result, commotion arose. Together with the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance, I have requested an inquiry from the Supreme Court of Justice. It delivered an opinion. I haven't received that advice yet, but I've been able to read it in the press. One of the findings is that the transfer of staff to the Dutch speakers would have been imposed without risk analysis, without taking into account the workload, without consultation between the court presidents and without taking into account the information of the head of the Dutch court of first instance. The Supreme Court also states that the decision would have been taken without malice and asks you for a structural solution to the under-employment situation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the exact content of the letter addressed to you by the Supreme Court of Justice? Can I get a copy of that? What's your reaction to that? What is the position of the Supreme Court of Justice regarding the legality of this staff transfer? Has the Supreme Court given a specific opinion on whether or not that transfer is legal? What's your reaction to that? The transfer would be temporary. How long will it last? The Supreme Court of Justice would propose that the two courts cooperate more structurally. What's your reaction to that? How do you think this fits within the philosophy of the dedoubled courts which were established by means of a precarious Community agreement? Will the Dutch court not then be permanently sucked into the malaise at the French-speaking court of first instance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u30	The United Consultative and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice has carried out an analysis of the problem of the delegation of clerks between the courts of first instance in Brussels. At the beginning of June, I received the report with the opinion of the United Advisory and Investigation Committee. It contains a detailed analysis of the various aspects of the problem. In its assessment, the committee states that the first chairman's decision was intrinsically not optimal, but that the difficult circumstances in which it was taken can be taken into account. The Committee believes that, given its impact, the decision should have been made after prior consultation with all parties on the basis of correct and reliable information. The committee does believe that the first chairman has made his decision in good faith. This shows that it is very important for the administration of the courts to have good figures. The distribution of resources between courts should be based on clear and objective parameters. This applies not only to the Brussels arrondissement, but also to all the resorts. Secondly, this underlines the importance of good consultation between all those involved, especially in such delicate decisions. Perhaps an acceptable compromise could have been reached by means of a thorough prior consultation. As far as legality is concerned, the Supreme Court suggests to the Justice Department that existing legislation leaves room for interpretation. The first President shall invoke the general rules on mobility for Registrars of Article 328 of the Court's Code. For the Supreme Court, the delegation is legally possible on the basis of that interpretation, but the delegation does not seem compatible with the spirit of the transitional measure provided for in the law on the reform of the judicial district. The Supreme Court therefore calls on the legislator to clarify matters. I note that there are two laws side by side. Under the BHV Act, a transitional measure was taken to allow Dutch-speaking staff to continue to assist the French-speaking court pending the completion of the frameworks, in so far as there were transfers to the Dutch-speaking courts. In addition, the Court's Code lays down general rules on mobility for judicial staff, including clerks, which allows the first chairman to instruct a member of staff to perform his duties in another Registry of the Arrondissement. However, the decision of the first chairman shall be subject to certain prior requirements with regard to the hearing and consultation of the Registrar concerned, the Chief Registrar and the President. As I said to you last year, the legislator may of course consider that Article 328 of the Code of Justice should be amended, but it cannot be the intention to undermine the general rules on mobility. The contract based on Article 328 of the Civil Code is in principle valid for one year, but is renewable. The decision must therefore be reviewed every year by the first President. The Supreme Court of Justice is therefore proposing that consideration be given to the possibilities of more structural cooperation. Overall, the judicial organisation would benefit greatly from more structural cooperation between the courts of an arrondissement and even from a resort. Cooperation is useful not only in Brussels, but also in other arrondissements and also between the different types of court. Structural cooperation does not mean returning to the period for doubling in Brussels. Two autonomous equal courts can work together perfectly without one controlling the other. In this sense, it is a pity that the President of the French-speaking court was not prepared to take part in a mediation effort by the Supreme Court of Justice, to which the first President of the Appeal Court and the President of the Dutch-speaking court were prepared. Finally, it is not for the Minister of Justice to publish a report from the Supreme Court of Justice. That council has rules for publishing its investigations. I invite you to contact him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u31	I have said several times that I do not agree with the staff delegation and that will not change. It is striking that the BHV law is apparently so unclear that it is difficult to interpret even for the magistrates. It was certainly a bad measure. We all know that the Dutch-speaking magistrates have already been somewhat wronged in the division of staff of the BHV reform. If one starts to nibble off that again, one will face even greater problems with all the consequences for the Dutch-speaking judge and especially for Halle-Vilvoorde. I hear in your reply that there was no cooperation in conciliation here either. I regret that I have not yet received the content of the complaint from the Supreme Court of Justice, all the more so because I was one of the questioners of the audit. I've asked about it several times. I will once again address my question to the Supreme Court of Justice in order to obtain a full copy of that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u32	Minister, in 2011 IS became actively involved in the Syrian civil war. Since then, dozens of fighters have also left our country for the Syrian conflict area for sympathy for the newly established Caliphate and have committed crimes there. Many warriors have now returned to our country. They are a group which, of course, we must keep very close watch on. That is why I have the following questions. First of all, how many returned IS fighters is the OCAD list talking about? Can you also indicate how many of them are underage? Secondly, can you give an overview of the number of convictions since 2011, broken down by province, for one of the terrorist crimes, referred to in the title of the Criminal Code? Thirdly, how many people were acquitted for the same facts in the same division during that period after 2011? Finally, how many persons are currently involved in a judicial investigation into the same facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u33	Mr Yüksel, I can inform you that on the last published list of OCAD of 7 June 2016 there are 114 returners, of which 2 are minors. 7 of those returners died. For the convictions and investigations there was not enough time to make the division by county or by arrondissement. The information I received from the federal prosecutor's office is next. Number of convictions and acquittals for terrorist offences: in 2011 2, in 2012 13 convictions and 11 acquittals, in 2013 7 convictions, in 2014 55 convictions and 5 acquittals, in 2015 117 convictions and 4 acquittals and in 2016 79 convictions and 5 acquittals. As far as the investigations are concerned, I can tell you that in all the cases together a little less than 400 persons were the subject of an investigation, but it must be borne in mind that some persons appear in more than one case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your information. We need to keep this group of people under permanent legal control and keep up with the evolutions. Of course, we must severely punish this group, as it should and according to the laws and possibilities of our democracy and rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u35	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, lawyers, prosecutors and clerks have expressed their dissatisfaction with the Grand Place of Nivelles. In carrying out this action, they have denounced the difficult conditions in which they have to work and the lack of staff that they face in the various departments. Current conditions do not allow justice to function properly. While Justice is seeking to save money by all means, the justice system is divided into four separate buildings (the Grand Place, the North zoning, the conviction rooms are stored in a building in the North zoning and the civil court is located on rue de Soignies in too small a building). This has the effect of generating additional costs and does not facilitate cooperation between the different services. Furthermore, in January, I asked you about the shortage of staff in the Labour Court and the Nivelles Court of First Instance. At the time, four people had been sent to Nivelles to strengthen the teams. However, these people's contracts end at the end of this month. Thus, a problem of understaffing may again arise. Minister, what do you intend to do so that the justice system in Nice can function properly? What are you planning to do to fill the staffing gap? For some time now, it has been a matter of regrouping the different services of the justice system in one single building. Can you tell me what's going on today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u36	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the executives of the courts in Nivelles are currently filled as follows: first instance of Walloon Brabant, 92.29%; Walloon Brabant Police, 83.26%; Walloon Brabant Labour Court, 67.77%; Walloon Brabant Labour Auditorate, 92.73%. Within the framework of the terrorist budgets, three places are foreseen at the Walloon Brabant Prosecutor's Office: one level B secretary, one level C assistant, one level D collaborator. As far as possible, all vacant places will be filled by means of transfers by 1 September. In addition, three places are foreseen at the Court of First Instance of the Walloon Brabant: one of clerk level B, one of assistant level C, one of collaborator level D. These vacant places were published in the Belgian Moniteur of 27 May 2016. In the context of the vacancy plan, the support service of the College of Courts and Courts has set priorities in consultation with the relevant courts. In this context, three places are foreseen in the Labour Court of Walloon Brabant: one of the clerks, at the request of the judicial order (a publication planned in September calls for the organization of a comparative selection for recruitment), two assistants for whom the transfer procedure is still in progress. A secretary's seat is also planned at the Walloon Brabant Prosecutor's Office, at the request of the judiciary (a publication scheduled for September calls for a comparative selection for recruitment). The judicial services of the Republic of Uzbekistan are divided into the following locations. Palace 1, court of first instance, prosecutor's office, investigation, bar, located in Albert I Square, first floor. Palace 2, auditorate and labour court, justice of the peace, court and police prosecutor's office, assize court, commercial court, located on rue Clarisse 115 to 1400 Nivelles. The exhibits are found on Rue du Bosquet 41 to 1400 Nivelles. In early 2010, the youth court temporarily moved pending the construction of a new palace to the Porte de l'Europe complex, avenue Jean Monnet 12. Since the end of 2013, the civil section of the court of first instance of the Walloon Brabant has temporarily moved from the palace to the rue de Soignies 8, allowing to unblock the palace. The proposed establishment of a new palace is located in direct proximity to Palace 2. The idea of a new building in Nivelles has existed in recent years. The needs programme has been the subject of a number of discussions, as the occupancy standards to be applied have been adapted by the Régie des Bâtiments. In the end, a new needs programme was developed, but in the meantime, I announced that I was working on a masterplan for judicial buildings. This should be taken into account in view of the possible impact on the necessary surface area. The project manager of my services in charge of this file made any corrections necessary in order to be able to present the files to the Inspector of Finance and forward them to the Régie des Bâtiments by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. When one sees a rate of 67.07 per cent for the Labour Court in Walloon Brabant, there are many questions to ask. I hear that the framework will continue to be filled; I really hope so. As for the settlements, one could gain efficiency by grouping them together. I hope you'll take this case with you and bring it to a speedy conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u38	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up question; we have already heard about this in the Committee on Justice of 11 May. Then we could learn about the chronology of the file. In October 2015, a financial file was submitted to temporarily extend the five-year contract. On 21 December 2015, the Finance Inspectorate concluded that an extension would be contrary to the Public Procurement Act. On 29 March 2016, she reiterated her unfavourable advice and added to demonstrate federal jurisdiction. Then there was the consultation with the cabinet of the Minister for the Budget and the Directorate-General for EPI prepared a professional file, which still had to be adapted at the time. Minister, your answer then went in the direction that no commitment could be taken up, either in terms of success or in terms of the timing of the appeal, and that one would do what is within the scope of ensuring continuity, without any guarantee. At the request of Minister Vandeurzen, the Flemish administration would be carrying out an analysis of the issue of jurisdiction, which is even more crucial in addition to the appeal procedure at federal level. In the meantime, in the field of CAPs, as it has always been, there are a number of negative points. One would refer in particular and take too much of a voluntary approach. Moreover, this would have a very high price tag. Mr President, first of all, has the professional file of the Directorate-General been completed and submitted? When is the verdict expected? Secondly, what measures have you taken in the meantime to ensure continuity of service? Thirdly, what is the state of play in the analysis of the issue of jurisdiction? If there are results, can you explain them? If not, what's the timing? Fourthly, in relation to the functioning of CAPS, is there any willingness on the part of the regions to send emergency drug care teams to prisons to start pre-therapy? Maybe you can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u39	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions has now prepared an adapted professional file and will deliver it to my policy cell in the coming week. It is important that the temporary extension of the contracts for the central notification points is envisaged in Flanders as well as in Brussels and Wallonia. If all the necessary elements are available for the appeal, the appeal will be submitted to my colleague in the Budget for consideration next week. I cannot, of course, stick to the timing of this issue. As I said earlier, it is not possible for me to take interim measures without an agreement from the Finance Inspectorate and from the Budget which allow normal operation of the contact points in our prisons, except on the basis of voluntary aid institutions. The temporary cessation of CAP debt in the Flemish prisons means that the prisoners must address themselves in writing or in the context of their penitentiary leave to these institutions extra muros. This is not an ideal situation and makes it difficult to return the prisoners with an addiction problem to society in the context of conditional release, provided that they follow a therapy. I am informed that the Flemish administration has not yet completed its analysis of the issue of jurisdiction. However, the analysis will also have to take into account any new implementation of the assignments of the central notification points in prisons. The functioning of the CAPS is currently being investigated in the framework of the scientific research PROSPER, which stands for process and outcome study of price-based registration points. Research results will be available in November this year. It goes without saying that, on this basis, the operation can be adjusted where necessary and that these elements can be included in the specifications for a new public contract. Any changes to the current operation, such as a number of motivational calls, may also have an impact on the competence question. It is also possible to examine whether CAP action can be better framed in the structures of healthcare intra muros. However, I do not wish to prejudge the results of the research and the following discussions with colleagues from the health and welfare departments of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u40	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u41	Minister, Masterplan III, presented on 27 May, aims in particular to offer opportunities for a differentiated detention policy. In this regard, transitional houses are planned. That's good news. The press release referred to two transition houses of 50 seats each. Minister, will there be 50 places in Wallonia and 50 places in Flanders? I read that you already had a precise idea of the location. Can you confirm that? What criteria will be used for the selection of inmates who will benefit from these transition homes? What programme has already been conceived in relation to the transition itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u42	Mr President, Masterplan III, which was agreed in principle by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016, indeed includes a project of transitional houses. I am absolutely open to other forms of detention. I can only applaud projects and initiatives that can facilitate reintegration into society because they are beneficial in the long term not only to prisoners but also to society as a whole. The Council of Restricted Ministers has already agreed to the creation of transitional houses for a total capacity of 100 places. These are small-scale projects in which inmates selected on the basis of a number of criteria are offered the chance, for example, to spend the end of their sentence in a transitional home. They are subject to intensive assistance and accompaniment in order to be able to better reintegrate into society. They will probably be houses of about 15 places each spread out across the country. An internal working group is currently working on practical preparation, also because a number of legal steps need to be taken. The places where these houses will be installed are not yet known. All this will be translated into a concrete dossier which will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers with all the details and a precise timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u43	Minister, this is obviously good news. This will contribute to the positive reintegration of some detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u44	Mr Minister, according to the press, the prosecutor of the King of Liège sent a note to the various police areas in his district asking them to draw up fewer minutes, but to verbalise "malign". This approach obviously raises questions. Minister, have you been informed of this initiative by the Prosecutor of the King of Liège? What is contained in the communication to the different police areas in Liège? What does "malignant verbalizing" mean in practice? What do you think? Do you know of such initiatives in other judicial districts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u45	Mr President, in view of the increase in the input of minutes for speeding up, resulting in particular from the increase in the number of observations made using automatic devices and also faced with the material impossibility that we regret to reserve a follow-up to all the procedures – given the means currently available in the various prosecutors' offices in the courts of law and of the congestion in the police courts – on 22 December 2014 the Attorney-General of Liège adopted a directive introducing a quota system in the sending of minutes for findings concerning infringements of the authorised speed. This allows for the definition of the total number of minutes for each prosecutor's office which the public prosecutor's office has the material possibility to deal with, taking into account the number of judicial and administrative staff, the information technology resources and the capacity of the police court to absorb such cases. Once the total number of minutes which the Public Prosecutor's Office in each judicial district has the capacity to deal with is defined, a breakdown is made between the police services concerned in the district and the police areas which receive a maximum quota of minutes for a specified period (weekly, monthly or quarterly). In view of this situation and of the disappearance of the practice of consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the King's Prosecutor has opted for the establishment of an effective weekly consultation between the two departments and the Public Prosecutor's Office of Liège. Its aim is to focus on quality rather than quantity and thus ensure a follow-up to any infringement. This practice has been extended to other police areas. Concertation between police, judicial and administrative authorities is highly desirable. Indeed, the sixth reform of the State transfers some of the relevant powers to the Regions. Thus, in the case of the work of the network of "road traffic" expertise of the College of Public Prosecutors, several meetings have already taken place with the federated entities in order to ensure a perfect match between the implementation of these new competences and the criminal policy of the public prosecutor's offices, which itself depends on its means. That is why we are currently developing a project aimed at improving the automation and optimization of the processing of these driving offences. The aim of this project is, inter alia, to eliminate the practice of quotas. The bet is to be able to guarantee maximum efficiency and avoid a sense of impunity in the head of citizens. Coordination, coherence and priority-setting in relation to the dangerousness of the behaviour concerned sum up most of the directives in this area. It is in this sense that we can speak of "intelligent verbalization".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u46	Minister, thank you very much for this clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic444x.u47	Questions Nos 12333 and 12344 by Mr Gautier Calomne were postponed. Question No 12554 by Mrs Vanessa Matz is also postponed. Having received no news from the other members, we will remain there for today.
