ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u1	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree of 16 September 2015 increasing the amount of the income replacement allowance pursuant to Article 6 § 6 of the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities increased the income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities by 2%. Thus, the maximum annual amounts indexed to the replacement allowance are set as follows, as at 1 September 2015: Category A: €6,673.04; Category B: €10,009.56; Category C: €13,346.08. However, social integration income was already increased in 2016 by the Royal Decree of 1 April 2016, amending the Royal Decree of 3 September 2004, aimed at increasing the amounts of integration income. As a result, integration income amounts were increased as of April 1, 2016. The previous increase had taken place by the Royal Decree of 30 August 2015, amending the Royal Decree of 3 September 2004, aimed at increasing the amounts of integration income. I have given you the table showing, from 1 April 2016, the annual and monthly base amounts for categories 1, 2 and 3. I conclude that the amounts of social integration income are higher than the amount of income replacement allowances for persons with disabilities. That is not admissible, I hope you will agree. Indeed, this situation is profoundly unfair for persons with disabilities. On the other hand, this is nonsense, unless the idea is to bring them to the RIS to, voluntarily or not, relieve the budget allocated to income replacement allowances. The only way to do this is to make a further increase in the income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities. That seems obvious to me. That is, of course, the subject of my question. In conclusion, I would like to apologize for having taken up legal elements, but that seemed important to me for the clarity of the statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u2	Madam Commissioner, this is not the first time you have had that question. Last spring, I asked you a question about the distortion that has arisen since 1 April 2016 by raising the living wage for the income replacement allowance. You replied at that time that, in this context, in your policy, during the current budgetary negotiations at that time, work was being carried out on drawing up the necessary documents to provide for an increase of 2% in income replacement. It is therefore clear that your policy and yourself took the necessary steps to initiate an increase in the IVT in the government, so that there would again be an agreement with the amounts of the living wage. You replied to me that the sheet was inside for the 2017 budget format. However, we have been going on for many months now. My question is therefore, in particular, whether you have managed to get this budget off the table or, let me put it this way, to remedy this problem. I don't think anyone's satisfied with this crookedness. What was the outcome of this meeting? Is the budget here now? I also have a number of additional questions. Can you give me the latest figures of the number of persons in Belgium receiving an IVT up to the maximum amount, broken down into the three existing categories? What budget do you need to give these people an IVT equal to the living wage for their category from 2017 onwards? I really hope you managed to get this budget off. This is an injustice that already dates from 1 April 2016. It is therefore important to rectify this problem with retroactive effect, because it is not fair. In addition, it is also charged by Unia as discriminatory for the persons in question. These are my questions and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, in June I asked you my question about the IVT. The basic amount of the living wage was then raised by 2%, but the IVT remained unchanged. However, the law states that the IVT must be at least equal to the minimum of existence. You said you were working on what you yourself called oblivion. Discussions would be held to rectify them. So my questions are in line with those of our colleague. What did you eventually get out of the fire, if I may call it that? Is there room in the 2017 budget format for increasing the IVT and aligning it with the minimum of existence, as laid down by law? In short, what is the state of play here? I really hope you come up with good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, I, too, would like to highlight the distortion between the IVT and the living wage. Fortunately, living wages have indeed been raised in recent months, following, among other things, the tax shift measures. Effective measures were put in place to give the lowest incomes something extra and raise the living wage. Since then, however, as has already been mentioned by my fellow Members, the IVT for people with disabilities has been lower than the living wage. This, of course, causes a lot of problems in the field, not only in principle, because the IVT has not been aligned with the minimum of existence, but also because the OMCWFs are now faced with many additional files that they have not had in the past. This problem is already emerging in the field at several OCMWFs. We can already see that there are more applications from people with disabilities who want to get that limited additional amount so that their income would be equal to the living wage. Of course, these additional applications make the OMCWs subject to additional procedures. They should, for example, conduct a social survey of those persons with a view to their limited adaptation. This creates additional burdens and additional research, whereas this adjustment actually amounts to the wage that those people used to get in the past. My questions are as follows. Is there a view of raising the IVT to the level of living wage? What other additional actions do you intend to take in this respect? It is of course important that you discuss this issue with your colleague, Minister Borsus, because it has an important impact on the functioning of the OMCW.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, I make the same observation as my colleagues: income replacement allowances for persons with disabilities that are below the income of social integration because the 2% increase in the income of integration has not been applied and the concern of the Interfederal Centre for Equality – Unia – that this situation is discriminating, a feeling that we all share in this matter. I have the same questions as my colleagues about your intention to rectify things retroactively. Nevertheless, I will add one element. You are both the Secretary of State responsible for policies for persons with disabilities, the Secretary of State responsible for combating poverty and the Secretary of State responsible for combating discrimination. It is therefore unacceptable to note that the dossier on persons with disabilities has been forgotten. If they are not forgotten, your government colleagues do not take into account the need to raise these income replacement allowances. My question doesn't really leave you any choice. Are you going to get a positive answer for the 2017 budget? Will there be a retroactive effect? Will this come into force on 1 January? I do not see any other possible and acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u6	Thank you for your question. As a result of the measures taken since 1 April 2016 with regard to the social correction of the tax shift, the amounts of the income replacement allowance (ARR) and integration income are no longer equivalent, as you said. The consequence of this situation is that some people with disabilities, if they want to fully assert their financial rights, now have to apply to CPAS in order to obtain the difference. As you have also said and as we have done, my strategic unit has produced, in the course of the budget discussions, the documents necessary to restore the balance between the RRA and the integration income. The distribution of this wealth envelope is subject to social consultation. In concrete terms, the government has asked the social partners to pay specific attention to the restoration of equality in the amounts between the living wage and the IVT when awarding the welfare envelope. The number of persons with a maximum IVT is for category A 25 240. That's 2 291 only IVT plus 200 949 IVT and IT together. In category B there are 30 816 of which 4 129 are only IVT plus 26 687 IVT and IT together. For category C it is 9 906, with 2 713 only IVT plus 7 193 IVT and IT together. The budget, estimated on the basis of the full data, is EUR 21.3 million if we increase the IVT by 2%, as happened with the living wage. The Prime Minister's letter was sent to the social partners to take account of the welfare envelope and to bring the IVT into line with the living wage, as should be the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, you confirm the fact that we are making. Second, you refer people with disabilities to ask, if I understand correctly, the differential from the CPAS, on the retroactive part, I imagine. Now, I can tell you that I'm still stuck because, excuse me for a little bit, this is a government mistake. From the moment it's a government mistake, I find it incredible to send people with disabilities back to the CPAS. Unless I didn't understand correctly and you were going to fix the differential yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u8	The goal is not for people with disabilities to go to the CPAS. This is a consequence of last year's mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u9	Minister, I'm sorry! You make a mistake, it can happen to everyone, to me too. But when you make a mistake, you take the consequences. The consequences are not to say to people with disabilities: "Get out of the way! Take a lot of administrative steps! Go to the CPAS! It'll be complicated. You're gonna have to give a lot of papers, and so on." I'm not drawing you a picture, I dare hope you understand. I don't think it's all right! You make a mistake, you assume, you correct the shot and you have to correct it with respect to the replacement allowances. Thirdly, on the guarantee for the future, it is obviously your responsibility because I intend to send the hot potato back to the social partners, it's funny! The government is talking about the social partners to send them back the problems. On the other hand, when the social partners make proposals, as by chance the government does not follow them. It is up to you to guarantee for the future that this will not happen again! What I am asking you is, first of all, on the retroactive part that these people should not go to the CPAS but that the ad hoc department of administration should make the payments of the differential. Secondly, we can guarantee from November, that is now, that there is no longer any difference so that people with disabilities, as the weeks and months come, do not find themselves again with a differential that is obviously harmful to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u10	Mrs Willaert has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u12	I have not heard a request for the floor from the minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u14	Mrs Willaert has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u15	I must, of course, endorse Mrs Fonck's reply on this matter. Mrs Smaers has already listed what this means for the OCMWFs: there is a great deal of work for a small intervention, for which they will not be paid extra. In recent months, we have asked around our OCMW council members to check whether OCMW members are aware of this, whether they have the figures about the people who are in this case on their territory and whether those people have found their way to the various OCMW members after 1 April 2016. The answers to this point show that this is not the case at all. At the moment there are many people who are indeed entitled to that intervention of the living wage, but who do not find their way to the OCMWFs. The OCMWFs are also not fully informed about how many people it is about or who it is about. Before the summer, I have already said that it is almost cynical that we really need to call those people to the OCMW. This has to come from a different budget. I assume that it was not your first intention to have this settled through the welfare envelope, but rather to reserve a separate budget for it within this government, simply to rectify it. Now it is indeed the social partners who can solve this problem. I was eagerly waiting for a solution that would go beyond this. We still do not know where we will land. It is your and this government's responsibility to rectify this, not that of the OMCWs or the social partners. I hope they will, because this road has now been chosen. However, this must be corrected. Moreover, we are not legally engaged in discrimination in relation to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u16	One, Madam Secretary of State, you don't know yet. So you can't answer. That is a logical conclusion after your answer. Secondly, I too am getting reports that the OCMWFs are not always well informed, which leads to some confusion. Much more importantly, the right holders are not always well informed, which means that many people have to miss that supplement. Thirdly, and the most important point, this is a mistake on the part of the government. I feel that the government should simply correct this in the budget. When I started a budget as a ship or a county delegate, we first looked at what was necessary. Those are predators. This is necessary, because at the moment you are in the midst of illegality. First, the budget should have been looked at with the question of where things went wrong and where they should be corrected. In this case, the correction should have been carried out retroactively, but that has not been done. You just transfer that potato to the social partners. We will come back to this in a few weeks' time, but I do not think this is an example of good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know what precise timing you put in front of that social consultation. When do you expect a response from the social partners to the government's question? I understand that this line of thinking was chosen in the context of social dialogue through the welfare envelope. I assume that the path chosen by the government will be successful, and that the result will be separate from the method and the chosen path. This is the thought trail that's on the table right now. I would, however, like to see a commitment to results until that adjustment is made, inter alia because of this incident. Once again, it is the OCMWFs and local authorities who partly vouch for this adjustment to the living wage, whereas that is not really their job. I would therefore ask you to rectify this situation as soon as possible and to consult with your colleague, Minister Borsus, to see to what extent this can be taken into account in the remuneration of the OCMWFs, as they face additional expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u18	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I seriously thought that you had not finished your answer when Mrs Fonck intervened. Indeed, it seemed to me that important elements were missing in your answer. There is indeed the situation 2016 and the correction of oblivion. Indeed, a correction must be made by the federal government through an envelope from the disability budget, the 2016 wellness envelope or any other envelope. In any case, however, it is not for the CPAS to assume the payment of the difference paid to the persons concerned. Mr. Borsus may be able to intervene by paying the amount in question to the CPAS, but he should not do so at the expense of other CPAS policies for which the Minister is also expected to intervene to meet the additional expenses. In my view, it is, in any case, the State budget that must remedy this mistake. With regard to 2017, I do not understand that there must be negotiation between the social partners in order for them to agree to take disabled people into account through the 75% of this envelope that will still be available. I expected you to tell us, in your reply, that you were going to make the correction for 2016, that you were going to reimburse the CPAS and the people and that, for 2017, you had negotiated, with the Minister of Budget and your government colleagues, an increase in the disability allowance budget so that the error would be corrected and there would be an increase in income replacement allowances. But there is no question of that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u20	Let me close the incident, Mrs. Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u21	I just couldn't write down the split-up in category A, IVT and IVT plus IT. I was just wondering if you could repeat that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u22	Category A: 25 240. That's 2 291 IVT and 22 949 IVT and IT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u24	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have already had the opportunity to ask you about the tax measures available to certain persons with disabilities for the purchase of a motor vehicle. As an 80% disabled person (with motor-level sequelae) was denied this tax benefit, I had asked your opinion on a possible change to the current eligibility criteria. The person is 80% disabled but for neurological reasons. The reason for the refusal was that it was not accidental. This distinction of cause is incomprehensible while the result is the same. As regards the unfairness or otherwise of the differences established in the context of the election of beneficiaries, you referred me to the Constitutional Court's ruling No. 145/2009 on this issue, stressing the manifestly non-unreasonable nature of the political choice made by the legislator. Madam Secretary of State, I understand that you are going behind this judgment in order not to amend the legislation, but I would like to go further in the matter. So what would be the risk of refusal by the European Commission and the risk of enlargement to a neurological cause? On what scientific basis could these criteria be extended without opening the door to abuse and new demands? What would be the budgetary impact of such an extension? I remain convinced that it is unfair to refuse such aid on grounds of cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u25	Mr Clarinval, thank you very much for your question. As I mentioned in my answer to your previous question on the same subject, the eligibility criteria for VAT reductions are strictly interpreted. The European Commission also adopts a restrictive interpretation of the reduced rates authorised by Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added taxes. In particular, the Court of Justice gave the Commission's opinion against Spain on this point in a judgment of 13 January 2013. The risks of an infringement procedure are therefore obvious. The risk that this scheme will be completely abolished is very real. I refer you to a previous parliamentary question addressed to the Minister of Finance. He stated in 2002 that an extension was not obvious, since "any further extension of the scope of the tax advantages concerned, such as the abolition or radical relaxation of the condition relating to the use of the vehicle by the invalid or disabled person, would not only affect the very foundations of the advantages concerned, but would also jeopardise the preferential VAT regime. The European Commission has in fact expressly linked the authorisation to retain this preferential tax system to the condition that this scheme is not in any way altered by Belgium." In this context, estimating each budget impact, on the basis of new criteria, therefore makes no sense. An amendment to these criteria is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, in fact, there is clearly a problem because we are not expanding the regime. They are 80% disabled. If they have had an accident, they are entitled to a VAT reduction. But if it is a neurological problem that is the source of this handicap, they are not entitled to it. There is no extension of the beneficiaries who are disabled to X per cent. It is the cause of disability that is subject to this differentiation. We could interpret the legislation without broadening it. It is simply to allow people who are in the same situation as others, but for a different cause, to benefit from the system. We are basing ourselves on a false motive, namely the European Commission or the risks that do not exist, so as not to extend to those unfortunate people who, in the end, are disabled to 80% like the others. I am truly amazed at this discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u27	Mr. Chair, Minister, these are two important issues. First of all, I have a question about referents with disabilities. I will then extend the subject to mandistreaming. The importance of hindstreaming is no longer to be demonstrated. The needs of persons with disabilities must be taken into account in the development of any policy. Yet, through this objective, you indicate, when presenting your policy note, that you want to create disability contact points within federal public services and strategic cells. This is not the first time I've asked you about this. So I invite you not to get upset like you did with David Clarinval a moment ago by telling me that I've already asked you about this. That's right. And in June 2015, you told me that all the references to disability that were to be designated by the ministers and secretaries of state within their strategic unit and responsible for ensuring that the disability dimension was taken into account in the design and implementation of policies had been made and that a first meeting had been held with the administrative focal points. You also explained your action plan and the practical implementation of the principle of mandistreaming. Madam Secretary of State, in relation to this plan, I would like to see where we are. You're announcing it in your policy note. Could you please tell us about the reporting system? Has it been defined and how? The government has mandated you to develop, in consultation with the focal points, the coordination mechanisms and the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities (NSHRC), a reporting system. When do you think you can draw the first political conclusions? Furthermore, the CSNPH, on 19 September 2016, issued a report on this coordination mandistreaming following the decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 March 2015. A series of criticisms were made by the CSNPH, including the lack of consultation, the lack of information from civil society and, in particular, the lack of information from the Higher Council on the content of the note and the submission before its validation in the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2016. In addition, beyond the lack of willingness to consult and consult on the substance, the CSNPH is extremely perplexed "with regard to the scope of this list of actions". First, he wondered about the place occupied by this list in the context of the federal action plan announced, both in the note to the Council of Ministers of 27 March and in the policy note of the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities of 4 November 2015. "The list as presented does not respond," says the CSNPH, "to the current definition of an action plan. It does not contain any information on the problems and difficulties for which concrete actions are proposed or a relevant and efficient analysis of the actions proposed to achieve specific objectives, the precise identification of those responsible and other stakeholders, the budget, other means to be implemented, the deadlines, the start and end dates, or the criteria for success to be validated". Secondly, the title itself is liable to cause confusion. It is called "coordination mandistreaming", "actions" in the title of the attached document or "initiatives and objectives" in the press release. We no longer know very well what this is because there are three different documents and three different titles. The CSNPH also points out that it is not in favour of indicating a minimum performance obligation. I have included in my question the whole of the Council's argument, and I am not going to read it again. The Council also notes a wide disparity in the content of the proposed list. Here too, I have given you the elements correctly pointed out by the Council. Madam Secretary of State, why didn't you consult the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities before submitting your note to the Council of Ministers, contrary to the commitments you made? How do you intend to link this note with the true federal disability action plan? Do you intend to amend your note to respond to the Board's criticisms and recommendations? How do you intend to follow up on this note, given the lack of detailed data and reliable and measurable indicators?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u28	Mrs Fonck, the Council of Ministers approved on 15 July 2016, on my proposal, a list of initiatives and objectives in the framework of the Handistreaming, whereby each Minister and Secretary of State undertook to integrate the disability dimension into at least two policy orientations. It was also decided to prepare a report on this subject on an annual basis. This report will consist of an annual overview which, for each political orientation chosen by the Ministers and Secretaries of State concerned, will indicate the status of the measure concerned (design, execution, etc.). and how the disability dimension has been integrated (segregated composition of the target groups of the measure concerned, examination of possible differences in the situation of persons with disabilities and persons without disabilities, examination of the possible negative or positive impact of the measure concerned, possible compensatory measures). This report will be prepared for the first time at the end of 2017. I can tell you that my firm and I have regular and direct contact with the CSNPH. In addition, personal consultations are held on a quarterly basis. The documents, together with the approved commitments, were immediately forwarded to the NPHSC.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u29	Madam Minister, the least we can say is that you have done the minimum service, even less. I feel like you're on an answer strike. This is rather deplorable given the importance of these issues regarding policies for people with disabilities. On the references to disabilities, you did not answer anything. You're talking to the CSNPH about mandistreaming. Talking to them is one thing, but it is not the same as involving them in a dialogue. You say you gave them the documents, but once the decision was made. That is not the point of consultation. We must first discuss and have a real openness to the proposals they can put on the table or what they can make evolve in what you bring and then conclude. It is regrettable that the government has said that it has done everything. However, you are really beside the plate as to how to take into account the dimension of disability through all the federal powers in their different variations. Here, you're not in this frame. I don't know what you're doing, but it's clearly not, in my view, a positive way of thinking about mandistreaming. In essence, the only losers are persons with disabilities. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u30	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you recently stated that from 1 January 2017 it would be even more difficult to abuse expired parking tickets for disabled people. The police could then use a smartphone to scan the QR codes on the new cards. At the time of the death of the user of such a card, it must be returned to the municipality, but very often this does not happen, although it may not be out of malice for most people. Others will abuse the map. Last year approximately 29 000 police reports were issued for the abuse of a expired parking card for people with disabilities. I have the following questions. Firstly, at the moment about two hundred thousand expired parking tickets would be in circulation. You would like to take it out of circulation in a period of three years. Do you see how many cards are used wrongly? Could it be that people forgot or don't know they had to send that card back? To what extent is it realistic to pull out of circulation all expired cards through police control? Or will you do so in a different way and inform people in a different way? Did the 29 000 minutes that were written last year all relate to the improper use of parking tickets or are they related to other infringements? When a report is made out, are parking tickets therefore invalidated as a result? Is the QR code passed on when you find a expired parking card and the card rendered unusable? How does that happen? Do users receive a fine or are they also referred to the parquet or passed on to DG Persons with disabilities? In many large cities the control of correct parking takes place almost exclusively by parking guards and not by the police. To what extent have you discussed this with Minister Jambon? Will parking guards also be called in to identify these types of infringements? Or is that not allowed and is that not part of their duties? If they are allowed to do so, will they receive training? What other slopes do you follow to remove expired parking cards from circulation or to further restrict their improper use? Some people with disabilities tell us that it would be more practical to work with a smaller parking card, type of identity card, so that they can carry it in their portfolio. Can you take this into account? Finally, I would like to say that my colleague Nathalie Muylle cannot be here today. I assume, of course, that you will answer her questions in the global answer. It asked a question concerning the parking tickets and wanted to know how the points in the category "Relocation and Mobility' or "Relocation' and in the category "Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self. How can we make the process of assessment, whether someone is eligible for a parking card or not, more transparent? In what way can the allocation take into account the changing state of a particular person? A person with, for example, a chronic condition may be in a very bad state at times and then be slightly better. Can this be taken into account when releasing the card, so that people are not always judged on it? If a person is in a slightly better phase, a card must be prevented from being refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, I will incorporate Mrs Muylle's questions in my answers. She had indeed asked for the general self-reliance. The heading "Relocation and overall self-reliance' is assessed, such as the six known headings, on the basis of the MB of 30 July 1987. I quote the ministerial decision establishing the categories and the guide to the evaluation of the degree of self-reliance with a view to examining the right to integration. Within the medical service there is a consensus text for its concrete application. The same MB literally states: "It is the average condition that needs to be evaluated." So, when a person is in an acute phase at the time they present themselves for a doctor's evaluation, self-reliance will be determined taking into account the complaints at that time. If someone is at a calmer stage of the chronic condition, the average condition can be taken into account in the evaluation. So everything depends on the type of chronic disorder, where the course of the pattern of symptoms determines the changes in self-reliance. The term "chronic disease/disease' refers to the duration of time, its permanent character and the need for a often longer period of care. However, this in itself does not say much about the progress of the complaints and even less about the differences in expression between persons with the same chronic condition. Not all people with chronic illness have the same problems of self-reliance. By way of example, diabetes mellitus is considered a chronic disease. If it is under control, the patient is well cared for and properly monitored, then it is possible that the problems of self-reliance are not so great compared to someone with the same diagnosis, but who has a more difficult sugar level to control and will therefore also have more additional injuries due to the disease and can therefore also show more fluctuations in self-reliance. The determination of the average condition is therefore not as simple as the term suggests. The scale provided in the MB is a generic scale that should evaluate all types of diseases. Each applicant shall be individually evaluated. This may give rise to a false perception of the variability of decisions for persons with the same chronic condition. The evaluation process depends on several bodies, depending on the criteria and the way in which they are determined. For example, 80% of total disability is a criterion not assessed by DG Persons with Disabilities because it does not fall within the competence of DG Persons with Disabilities. People will then have to go to another body, such as Mobility. These bodies have their own decision-making processes. The Civil and Military War Victims Service, for example, decides on the criterion of 50% invalidity on the basis of the OBSI, the official Belgian scale for determining invalidity. However, this scale is no longer used by DG Persons with Disabilities. When someone at DG Persons with Disabilities applies for a parking card and is in possession of a decision of another authority giving entitlement to a card, the person concerned is automatically entitled to the parking card in so far as our service has been informed. Full transparency means streamlining all these processes, which is not evident in an environment of distributed powers, both federally and regionally. With regard to your questions concerning the misuse of parking tickets, determining the misuse of parking tickets for persons with disabilities is exclusively the responsibility of the police. It's the police who decide whether or not to file a report. The DG Persons with Disabilities is not automatically informed of this and therefore does not have figures on the number of minutes, the withdrawal of the parking card or the reasons for it. There are no structural agreements between DG Persons with Disabilities, DG Han, and police areas on checks on invalid and/or expired parking cards, as this competence belongs only to the police. At the request of the police, the DG Persons with Disabilities provide the necessary information on invalid and/or expired cards, if, for example, a police zone wishes to take action. These actions are also coordinated at provincial level. For example, the provinces of West and East Flanders have already organised awareness-raising and control actions in cooperation with DG Persons with Disabilities in the past. Since October 2016, a new model of parking cards has been produced. These cards are now provided with the QR code you mentioned. This allows for a more efficient code. I have one and can show you the new card that will be delivered from now on. The aim is to replace all the old cards with the new model within three years, taking into account the budgetary possibilities, so that controls are much easier. For example, cards that have not been returned in the past as a result of the death of a beneficiary will no longer be able to be used. When delivering the card, it is also clearly stated in an accompanying letter that the card must be returned after the death of the creditor. The parking card has always been drawn up in accordance with European directives. To change this parking card to the type of identity card, we need to adapt the European directives. This is not so simple and will have to go through Europe. That is why we have still complied with the current standards. However, within this prescribed format and taking into account the fixed European entries, it is possible to include additional data such as the QR code. It is also possible to provide the maps with technology, possibly with radio frequency, which could be read by the controlling agent or parking guard. In early 2017, the development of an app will also start that will allow you to check all existing and new parking cards for their validity. For the cards that have been delivered since 2016, this is via the QR code. For the older parking tickets without QR code, the app will allow you to check that it is still valid by typing the parking card number in the front of the card. This is how we try to tackle the problem of invalid cards. All new cards have a QR code. The intention is to replace all the old cards. Meanwhile, we also develop the app to check the old cards via the number that is still on it, so that the improper use of old parking cards is finally stopped. For example, we try to remove all cards that are no longer valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, could you clarify the following? In three years' time, all old cards will be replaced by new ones. Do you mean all the cards, and not just the expired cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u34	How many expired cards are there? I believe it was two hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u35	The figure of two hundred thousand is an estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u36	And are you talking about all the cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u37	There are 380 000 parking tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u38	There are 380 000 parking tickets, of which two hundred thousand have expired?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u39	Two hundred thousand cards on top of that, which we suspect have expired. There are 380 000 people who have a valid card and there are 200 000 people who are estimated to have never returned the card. But the QR code allows all new cards to be checked. The old maps will be checked through an app that we are developing because, from a budgetary point of view, we cannot replace all the cards at once. That's not possible. The app is in fact an alternative to checking the old cards that carry a number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u40	These are questions, not a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u41	I won't replicate anymore, this is the last question. In the big cities, are the parking guards allowed to check?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u42	They can't write a fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u43	Only the police can do that? I thought you said they could check. What about the fines? That was not quite clear in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u44	Fines are imposed by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u45	Controls can happen, can't they? If a parking guard finds that someone has an invalid card, what is he supposed to do? Does he have to call the police to write a fine? That's very cumbersome, isn't it? I assume that a different solution must be sought for the cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u46	There is a penalty for wrong parking and a fine for using the card. There's a lot of things going on there. Fees can be given by parking guards, a fine must be given by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates back to September. The socialist trade union ACOD then reported that since January 2016, one million telephone calls from people with disabilities to the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities have remained unanswered. A million, that can count! Since April 2016, the Contact Centre for People with Disabilities, the number 0800,987.99.... would be virtually unreachable. In August alone, there would be no less than two hundred thousand unrequited calls. The union relies on data from the department's IT department, which has a view on the number of incoming calls. The consequences can be guessed. People who call urgently need advice. They may lose discounts, fees and parking tickets if they are not helped further. These are often essential issues for people with disabilities. According to the trade union, this situation would result from expensive and inefficient IT applications, the regionalisation of services and internal restructuring which would increase the autonomy of the agents. There would have been consultations with the leadership, but without results. Madam Secretary of State, I assume you are as stunned by the figures as I am. I therefore think that an investigation into this situation is extremely urgent. What steps have you already taken and will you take to ensure that calls from people with disabilities are systematically adopted and, also very important, followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u48	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities is in particular competent to grant certain allowances directly to compensate for loss of income or additional disability-related costs. This is therefore an essential service for persons with disabilities. Among the means made available to citizens to come into contact with the administration, and especially for those who do not have an internet connection, there is a free green number, 0800 987 99. However, according to a recent report, since January 2016, it has been found that a million calls from persons with disabilities have remained unanswered, of which 200,000 calls were unanswered in August alone. Tens of thousands of people can no longer be informed, which is all the more regrettable when they are in an emergency or critical situation, and lose their rights, be they allowances, parking cards and so on. This situation seems to be borne by the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities, as the website provides information: "It may be that you are currently encountering problems in order to reach us. We are making every effort to improve our service as quickly as possible." Madam Secretary of State, if the information is correct, this situation has been going on since at least January without any noticeable improvement. How do you explain this situation and the fact that it has been going on for so long? What actions have been taken to address this? If no action has yet been taken, what measures are envisaged to resolve this problem as soon as possible and by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u49	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat the alarming figures, quoted by my colleagues, of non-response rates to incoming calls from persons with disabilities, parents of persons with disabilities and social workers so that they can receive the allowances to which they are entitled. It is particularly catastrophic to realize the situation, which is not new! For years, too many non-responses have been reported and denounced. A new computer system has been in place for more than six months. This service must not be accused of being the cause of everything. He may be able to explain in part the worsening of the situation but, unfortunately, and I have investigated at length to try to understand the problem, there are problems of governance and staff organization. There's not enough staff to answer calls. If I understand correctly, it is even called upon by voluntary officials to strengthen the morning teams. In addition, calls were limited to the mornings so that staff could work on the files in the afternoons. Furthermore, there is no requirement for all calls to be received beyond the requirement to be present from such an hour to such an hour behind a telephone. When a situation such as this arises, it is clear that arrangements must be made to meet the needs. Many expectations regarding the processing of online files had been nurtured. However, it was also announced when the system came into effect that it was not clear to persons with disabilities and their family members to use pre-established forms. Exchanges of information or requests for correction are not possible by e-mail. Even the complaints service so that persons with disabilities can report the situation is inaccessible. We are facing a catastrophic situation. Madam Secretary of State, could you give us the official statistics? What about it? I know there's a record of the elements. The data must be placed on the table in order to find a solution to the situation. How do you intend to repair this disaster? What measures are you going to take to remedy them quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, I, too, have put a question following what I read in the newspaper. However, I must say that I immediately checked it myself with people on the premises. They told me that there are problems with accessibility, but that the figures mentioned in the newspapers are not correct, that they are a bit off. However, we must all admit that the call centre at the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, which assists people with disabilities with questions about their rights, applications and files, regularly has problems of accessibility. The aim of setting up that call centre was to keep the threshold for people with disabilities as low as possible. Due to its success, in 2011 it was seen that only 34% of all incoming calls could be handled. A more recent annual report, from 2014, shows that the problems had already been largely resolved at that time. Of the 340 779 calls that year, no less than 80 % were answered within 30 seconds. If it's okay, it can be said. In the meantime, however, I hear that there are regular complaints from people who are having a hard time reaching the call centre. As soon as I submitted the question in September, I also noticed that the following message was posted on DG Han's website: "Unfortunately, we are currently less easily accessible. We apologize for this." What is the explanation for the fact that there are apparently again difficulties with regard to the accessibility of the call centre? Since when do we have these problems? I agree with the question of getting some insight into the real figures. They keep track of them, they monitor them. Is there a back door? Who can be helped? How many percent of people aren't helped in time? Madam Secretary of State, what measures have you taken in the meantime and how will the situation be followed up? How and when will the measures be evaluated to avoid similar problems in the future? Can you confirm to me that the problem is limited to the accessibility of the call centre and that there is no delay in the files themselves, in the lead time of the files? In that context, I would have liked to ask you a small question. You're the one who tried it this morning. Since 1 July 2016, there is a new application procedure. The user can now do the application completely autonomously with his electronic ID. Via eHealth, the data is automatically transmitted to the FOD. That happens, although we know that there are some differences between Wallonia and Flanders. In Wallonia, less than 40% of doctors are members of eHealth, while in Flanders it is already 80%. How does that work? Can you tell me that? How is this procedure evaluated? Will it be evaluated soon? Has it been evaluated in the meantime? Do users get a decision in this way within a reasonable time? Where can they go with questions about their file if the FOD is not available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Je vous remercie pour vos questions. I would like to point out that the figures quoted by the socialist trade union about the number of calls that the administration is losing are not entirely in line with reality. The figure of two hundred thousand calls that would have been lost in August 2016 is an extrapolation, which refers to the number of attempts to reach the free number. About 30 000 calls are received every month. Of these, the service was able to effectively handle 18 000 calls in August 2016. There is therefore a real difference between the real demand and the capacity of the administration to respond to those telephone questions. However, priority is given to handling the files so that the rights of persons with disabilities or disabilities are not compromised. At present, and despite the staffing problems that I will come back to later, applications and payments will always be dealt with within the deadlines laid down. The average time limit for new grant applications is approximately 135 days in August 2016, which is still below the legal deadline of 180 days. With MyHandicap, it is intended that that term still falls a lot. The evaluation has now started at the same time as the start of MyHandicap. The doctors are also emailed with the question to send the answers by mail. So it's not just through eHealth. Minister De Block will also write to the doctors to encourage them to deal as quickly as possible with questions arising from the electronic file. The current difficulties faced by the administration in handling all incoming telephone calls are related to different causes. These include: - the fact that the dossiers of allowances for the elderly continue to be managed by the Social Security FPS, beyond the expiry of the transitional phase originally scheduled for 31 December 2015; - a significant decrease in the number of people actually employed in the DG People with Disabilities. This number increased in one year from 385 to 336 full-time equivalents, a decrease of 49 in twelve months; - migration and the establishment of a new organization and computer system which requires time and effort in terms of learning from staff. This situation is expected to improve in the course of next year, since, with regard to the Flemish Community, applications and dossiers for allowances for the elderly will be gradually taken up by the latter from 1 January 2017. In addition, the new computer system, after its start-up phase, will be fully operational. In order to adjust the situation in the short term, I asked for additional measures, which seemed necessary to me. That is why I immediately asked the administration to review the staffing plan and to recruit quickly in the coming months. An internal mailing was also launched to give employees within the FPS Social Security Office the opportunity to temporarily strengthen the telephone service provided by DG Han. These measures are designed to improve telephone accessibility during the transitional phase currently under way in the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities as a result of the sixth state reform and the shift in aid to the elderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u52	The changes in brightness are not due to the need to leave the emergency room. I'll say it right away. There are still questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, I do not understand the relativization of those two hundred thousand calls in August. Apparently, a number of calls didn't come in immediately. You acknowledge that there was a problem. It may happen that the line is busy and one has to call back, but two hundred thousand is a large number. A number of things are being looked at, including staff. I believe that this is a good thing. I do not think we can accept this. I'm going to ask you one more question, but you don't have to answer them right away. I will submit my question if necessary. It has come to my attention that it is difficult to contact your service by e-mail. Apparently, people don't have direct access to their file manager. One has to go through that line every time one has additional questions, for example. This seems to me to be very cumbersome for people with disabilities. They have had to bear all the patience to call one or more times, but then they do not get the data from their file manager that they can then reach for further cases. I may have been misinformed. Can you correct this? This seems like a really weird way of working, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u55	That's fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to get the statistics. I don't know if you're trying to call from time to time. For my part, I am a former worker in the disability sector and I continue to serve on the boards of various departments. Workers and persons with disabilities who are accompanied so that they can live in an open environment spend mornings with the phone next to them. In fact, the situation is truly worrying. While you will speak of priorities and swear that deadlines are respected, the deadline only begins to run when the file has been introduced. There is a real difficulty for those who are trying to reach these services. I also invite you to send an e-mail asking for information about a file, but you will not get an answer. It is therefore all the governance and management of the system that needs to be established. When working with a person with a disability and his/her environment, including social workers who also have other things to do, consideration must be given to the different ways of getting in touch, not just believing that computer science can solve everything. Human and telephone contacts cannot be neglected. This problem also exists in the decentralized branches of the SPF. Do not be content with the answer that has been provided to you. A real effort to investigate and reform governance remains to be done. Even the e-mail system doesn't work. MyHandicap and eHealth have not been the subject of consultations with physicians and other stakeholders, as it is considered that things are going to work out for themselves. In concrete terms, can we receive the statistics since the beginning of the year? This will allow us to see what has changed since the system came into force. I know a number of people who are experiencing serious problems in maintaining their rights or even accessing them because their files are not processed and answers are not sent on time. Then they are told that their file is incomplete and that it is so bad for them. So I invite you to go to the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, in my opinion it is important to monitor the service's accessibility. I said earlier that 80% of the applications were answered within 30 seconds in 2014. That was already a good figure, but I went and still assume that it is the intention to aim for 100 % of answered calls within the minute. It must be a normal target for all calls to be answered. You are now saying that an average of 30 000 calls have been received in recent months, of which 18 000 are answered. Actually, almost half of it isn't answered. That's a big problem, isn't it? It is good that you say that additional staff will be deployed, but that really needs to change in the short term. Instead of progress, we have now gone backwards and we cannot. The possibility of asking questions must remain so that people can submit a dossier. I am glad that the lead time of a file, once filed, is good. That's where we score well. However, sometimes a person does not even know what rights he or she has, the person concerned is looking and he or she has questions. It must be possible to get an answer to these questions quickly. I think there is still a great deal of work to be done when I note that only 18 000 out of 30 000 questions per month are answered. I really want to insist that you address this urgently, and soon I will ask you how this has been done, including with the new recruitments and with the implementation of the new system. This new system is only recently in place and I hope that you will be able to provide more information on it after an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u58	Recently all applications for parking tickets and allowances have been submitted to the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities via the electronic platform MyHandicap. Patients can apply independently or with the help, which happens a lot, of an employee of the municipality, the OCMW or the sickness fund. Following the application, a procedure shall be initiated, which shall be completely electronic. In the field there is evidence that there are quite a few problems at the last step, namely the medical part, which must be dealt with by the general practitioner. In the social services of the municipalities and the OCMWS we are informed that there is a tension between the staff accompanying the application and the general practitioners. Many general practitioners do not like to perform such an action without the patient passing past the cash register. They consider the remuneration for the work they should be doing necessary. During the procedure on the website of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities, the applicant is advised to contact the GP. It is therefore recommended to go to the general practitioner, who says that he does not fill in the application if the patient does not come for a consultation. Another problem is that the GPs indicate that the eHealthbox is not yet supported by all software packages with which they work. In addition, not all general practitioners are prepared to participate in the electronic completion of the application through the computer system. So there's a lot of cold feet. There is a refusal to accept this procedure, which makes the provision of services difficult for the applicant. Are you aware of that problem? Can we generalize this problem? Does it happen everywhere? I heard it on the premises with us, but maybe it's like that everywhere. How can we solve this problem? Is the mandatory consultation of a general practitioner really necessary to ensure that the procedure is conducted correctly? How will we deal with this, in the interests of the applicant, so that incomplete applications are not made through the electronic platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u59	I am indeed aware of the concerns of the general practitioners. The administration actively consults with them to ensure that the new application procedure is as smooth as possible. After all, they are an important link in the process and everyone agrees that direct contact with the treating physician via a digital and secure way, i.e. eHealth, in order to exchange medical information, is a significant simplification of the procedure in favour of persons with disabilities. Of course, the procedure assumes that applicants also have an overall medical file with a treating doctor, where the applicant may have recently been consulted. In such a situation, therefore, the FPS will not request any additional information, but only the information already contained in the global medical file and in the reports already stored. If no relevant information is available, it is logical that the doctor cannot provide the FOD with information without seeing the patient and that the patient should first consult with the doctor. There is indeed concern about the loss of a consultation fee, but that is not a general problem. Some general practitioners are positive about the time savings and the reduction of administrative burdens thanks to the electronic forms. The questionnaire for doctors is also much less long since 1 July, since the part about self-reliance is now filled by the person with a disability or a local contact person. The procedure for the electronic exchange of data is currently conducted in two ways. In some software packages, the FOD questionnaire can be filled in PDF format and sent via the eHealthbox. For other software packages there is a specific electronic form, which makes it even easier for the doctor to forward data to the FOD. That electronic form automatically retrieves data from the patient's global medical record. The doctor may select relevant diagnoses and then also send the electronic form to the FPS. By the end of 2016, almost all software packages are expected to have integrated that electronic form. For this purpose, we actively consult with the suppliers of the medical software. As a result of the consultation with Domus Medica, the procedure has already been adjusted. Citizens are now asked to contact the treating physician after submitting the application, after which the doctor can decide if he has sufficient medical information about the person. If this is not the case, he may invite the person to consult. That contact is also useful to inform the doctor that an application has been submitted and that a request for medical information will be sent from the FOD via eHealth or by post. That adapted procedure was widely communicated. Since October 2016, a doctor will also receive a MediDoc message in addition to a message in the eHealthbox, which is displayed directly in the patient file and/or an overview screen, depending on the software package used by the doctor and the person. Furthermore, in addition to the eHealth message, a paper form is sent to all doctors. Through these interventions, we also hope to inform those who do not consult their e-mail regularly that one of their patients has submitted an application to DG Han. Various awareness actions are planned for the doctors. First and foremost, suppliers of medical software packages were effectively asked to develop and make available instruction video footage for the use of the electronic form. The FPS Social Security also looks at the possibility of developing a training course for the use of the electronic forms, which counts for the accreditation of the general practitioners. A periodic consultation between the FPS Social Security and the GPs is organised, so that the evolution can be monitored and adjusted. Improvements are also being made on a continuous basis on a technical level, so that the doctor can forward the form even more easily. MyHandicap also fits into the eHealth action plan of colleague Maggie De Block. At the press conference around MyHandicap, which took place on 29 September, we clearly committed ourselves to making doctors aware of the use of these electronic forms in order to have them completed and forwarded as quickly as possible. The person with a disability is therefore currently advised to contact his doctor, if, for example, a consultation has been a very long time ago. Anyone who meets the doctor on a regular basis already has a complete file. In this case, the doctor can buy a lot of time if all available information can still be forwarded via the eHealthbox. Therefore, we do not think it is advisable to include a compulsory general practitioner visit in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u60	I think they are steps in the right direction, but how does it happen on the ground itself? Applications shall be completed electronically in the social service. The customer also has to visit the GP and asks the social services to call the GP. The general practitioner then answers that he does not participate. For example, people are sent to a general practitioner, which is not always necessary. I wonder, therefore, whether there is sufficient emphasis in the training on cooperation between the various social services and the general practitioner, and whether good agreements are being reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u61	I am in close contact with Mrs De Block and will also discuss the issue with her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, at the beginning of this year I have already asked you a question about the European Disability Card, a European card for people with disabilities. Long before that card was lobbied from various working groups on the ground. It is intended that the various participating countries in the European Union should give the holders of the card easier access to various services, such as tourism, sports and leisure. In the participating countries, the beneficiaries may also benefit from certain discounts. At present, eight European countries have supported this proposal, namely Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Italy, Malta, Romania, Slovenia and Belgium, unless countries have joined in the meantime, but my information dates from 12 October and is therefore quite recent. This card would therefore be a good thing and our country will respond to the proposal launched by the European Commission. On 10 October last, the state governments and the federal government also effectively signed the protocol of agreement on the European Disability Card. It was initially said that the key elements and a awareness campaign on the European Disability Card on 3 December 2016 should be on track for the international Day of People with Disabilities. I take it this is also in preparation in the meantime. The launch of the card itself is scheduled for the end of the first semester of 2017. Madam Secretary of State, is that timing still correct? What is the state of play in the meantime? In any case, I hope that the awareness actions will be effective from 3 December. It is planned that only persons with disabilities who would receive such a card themselves will receive it. The High Council for People with Disabilities is trying to prevent people from feeling stigmatized. To what extent will the people who are eligible for that card be personally informed and informed that that card is available? Will it be explained to those people that this card offers different advantages and that it can be applied for? I understand that the card cannot be automatically allocated, but I do think that people should be informed automatically. Those concerned should be able to apply for this card in a very smooth and easy way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u63	The European Commission will take advantage of the International Day for People with Disabilities. The European Commission sees 3 December as a beacon in the run-up to the introduction of the European Disability Card. The Commission will therefore take advantage of this day to formally propose the project at European level. As far as Belgium is concerned, it is still intended to launch the card during the first semester of 2017. We will be able to do that, because last month we signed the agreement with all the ministers of the various regions. Activities on the development of joint issuing processes and the development of communication tools are now under way in the various ministries of the relevant ministers, federal and regional authorities. As regards information and awareness raising for people with disabilities, various actions are being undertaken. For example, an accessible website is provided, a brochure with explanations is distributed and a start-up event is organised so that information about the Disability Card reaches the public and the disabled. The realisation of all these elements is carried out in cooperation with all relevant actors, with a view to achieving the widest possible awareness. After all, this card is intended to be as well known and used as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, assuming this event is on December 3rd.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u65	For the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u66	No, for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic530x.u67	For us that is not on December 3, it will be later. Early next year, if it comes out effectively. Early 2017.
