ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u1	Deputy Prime Minister, e-commerce is highly developed in our country, thanks to a very high level of connectivity. According to press reports, more than a fifth of the turnover of companies based in Belgium comes from e-commerce, while 55% of Belgians made at least one online purchase in 2015. Moreover, the growth potential of e-commerce is very important and constantly changing. However, these encouraging figures seem to hide a less positive reality for our economy. Indeed, it would appear that in the top 10 companies operating online in Belgium, only two are located in Belgium. Most of these companies have a logistics centre outside our borders, particularly in the Netherlands. According to your statements in the media, one of the factors explaining this situation would be the facilitation of night work in our neighbouring countries in relation to Belgium. However, by the end of last year the social partners had concluded a framework sectoral agreement on night work in e-commerce. However, since then, little progress seems to have been made in companies, which you have publicly deplored. In this regard, you have indicated that you are considering the use of legislation to facilitate this type of night work if the situation is to remain frozen. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is your view on the situation of e-commerce in our country, the prospects for its development and the difficulties that you think it faces? What is your position on the current situation of night work in Belgium and what measures do you intend to take to further encourage it? Finally, you mentioned the possibility of using a legislative text in the event of no change. Under what conditions and by what date do you intend to amend the law? What concrete measures are you planning to propose, in synergy with your colleague in charge of Employment and the Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u2	As noted at the beginning of the question, the growth potential of e-commerce is very important and constantly evolving. For example, the percentage of people in Belgium who made online purchases rose from 48 per cent in 2013 to 55 per cent in 2015. The share of e-commerce in business turnover increased from 14% in 2013 to 22% in 2015. This positive development illustrates that Belgian electronic commerce is not going badly and that, subject to the following, there does not appear to be a significant obstacle to its development that the federal government could lift in the short or medium term. In order to identify the obstacles that the sector could face in its development, Ministers Peeters, Borsus and I have created a platform for consultation. To date, several working groups have met at two rounds of meetings, and written contributions have been exchanged. All these exchanges led to the drafting of a project covering the various issues and possible actions to be undertaken identified by the participants. At this stage, the work is not finalized and it would be premature to speak more about it. With regard to night work, this is made possible by a royal decree in the form of a CLC to be concluded at the level of the Joint Committee of the sector in question. It must be noted that there has not yet been one. This would be counter-cyclical in the sense that all over Europe, e-commerce and job creation are developing. It would be surprising if Belgium were immunised there (in the negative sense of the term). The government seems to be aware that no CLC has been concluded. We are investigating the necessary measures to make it possible to create jobs in night e-commerce. We do not yet know what measures to take, but everyone is aware that the objective of job creation is not achieved. It is estimated that around 30 000 jobs could have been created in this sector in Belgium, especially for people with little training. In this area, these 30,000 jobs could be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u3	I thank you, Minister, for the various elements of the response that go in a positive direction in relation to the objective that you are seeking to meet. There is still a lot of work to try to reach the level of our partners and our neighbours. We must not look that far to see that in other neighbouring countries it is working well. I can only encourage you to continue in this direction. I will, of course, be attentive to the developments that you will bring here before Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u4	Question No 13140 by Mr Foret is transformed into a written question. Question No 13361 by Mr Delizée is postponed. Questions Nos 13403 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, 13463 by Mr Nollet, 13469 by Mrs Winckel and 13478 by Mr Delizée are also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u5	Madam President, as my colleague, Gautier Calomne, says, the committee is a little "orientated" in terms of colours today. I will ask you a little service: your collaborator has gone to pick up my glasses; can you read my question for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u6	Why not? "After many postponements, the end of roaming costs was scheduled for June 2017. The Commissioner in charge of the case had announced the final end of these cross-border charges on that date. It appears that the draft submitted by the Commission was, in fact, much less ambitious, proposing an exemption period for roaming charges for a minimum period of 90 days per year. This, of course, gave operators the flexibility to completely eliminate these costs. This also allowed them to offer their customers a fee exemption only for part of the year. The President of the Commission has called for the withdrawal of this text which is considered too unambitious. The argument put forward to justify this temporary exemption from roaming charges is the risk that customers will subscribe in countries where offers are most competitive, to the detriment of domestic operators. Deputy Prime Minister, Belgium has a small number of operators and is surrounded by countries where mobile subscriptions are much cheaper. Can you tell us what position the operators are taking with regard to the total termination or partial exemption of these costs? Will the final and total end of these costs put them in financial difficulty? Have successive carry-overs allowed operators to secure their financial capacity? Does openness to competition threaten them? Will not the much more interesting offers they will have to put on the market above all boost trade and thus compensate, through the intensification of flows, for the loss of profits resulting from the disappearance of roaming costs? What is your position with the European bodies?"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u7	Madam President, you speak so well that I think that in the future I will reiterate my request. I'm kidding!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u8	In any case, you know that I do not always chair this committee, Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u9	I could ask the president to read the answer too, but I'm not going to. You mention something in your introduction. You say that the price of subscriptions and mobile rates is lower in countries around us. This is not entirely correct; when we look at the IBPT's latest study on the subject, we find that, in fact, in mobile telephony, prices are rather comparable with those in the countries around us. This is not the case for fixed telephony. Nevertheless, the problem you are putting forward is an element to be taken into account, of course, in a broader sense. First of all, a fair use policy is put in place by the European Commission in order to prevent end-users from making permanent roaming. The example of Estonia is highlighted. The approach followed by the Commission is linked to the consumer's residence or stable relationship with a Member State. According to this approach, operators should be able to identify possible abuses, for example when domestic traffic is insignificant compared to roaming traffic. The impact of the roam-like-at-home on operators depends to a large extent on the wholesale cap rates to be set. Negotiations on the wholesale market review for roaming are still under way. Furthermore, I regret that the European Commission has not foreseen anything for the MVNOs in the wholesale market proposal. In Belgium, small operators, often MVNOs, play an important role. Their competitive pressure keeps prices on the domestic market at a low level. I am of the view that the proposed wholesale cap rates are too high to be able to offer competitive roaming compared to domestic rates, as MVNOs do not have network partners abroad and therefore have to pay maximum wholesale cap rates. Belgium therefore advocates, in the negotiations under way, for lower high cap rates. This should allow for greater flexibility for MVNOs, so that they can continue to play their role as challengers, even after the implementation of the roam-like-at-home. According to the Commission's impact analysis, some 12 % of operators are expected to suffer a loss of income as a result of the introduction of the roam-like-at-home. 2 % of operators are expected to lose more than 5 % of their EBITDA. These operators can request an exception to the roam-like-at-home and then charge an additional fee to their end users. This measure provides a loophole for operators who, following the introduction of the roam-like-at-home, have to increase their national tariffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u10	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I would tend to say – and I can do so all the more today – that by acting in this way you are a true liberal, that is to say, you are for openness and competition and not for the development of the monopoly. I can only thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u11	Questions Nos. 13502 and 13503 by Mr. Gilles Foret are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u12	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the press has recently reported on the willingness of bposts to hire persons with refugee status and, consequently, to call on the municipalities to promote these job offers. In this respect, bpost would be looking for some 60 new factors to cover mainly the provinces of Flemish Brabant and Antwerp, as well as some coastal localities. The willingness of the public enterprise to provide work for refugees and thus to promote their integration through paid work should be welcomed. However, like any other worker, their commitment must be supervised, particularly in terms of their training. In addition, fair access to the labour market among all candidates must be guaranteed under the law. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you confirm the information and, if necessary, provide us with details of this recruitment campaign? What is planned in terms of candidate selection and field work? By what means will the principle of equity between workers in the labour market be preserved in this context? What measures are currently planned for factor training and for learning national languages? At the employment level, are they temporary or indefinite contracts? Are these statutory jobs with recourse to Selor? Finally, do you already have an initial assessment of the participation of candidates in these jobs? Specifically, how many people have applied and what proportion of files have been retained to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u13	Madam President, the involvement of refugees is indeed the subject of reflection within bposts. This project is in line with the company's philosophy, which gives everyone a chance: young people, long-term job seekers, under-qualified people. It therefore also turned to refugees entering the labour market. It goes without saying that bpost does not intend to change its recruitment process according to the type of recruit. On the other hand, it is true that it is considering adequate support to prepare for the integration of these workers into a new working environment, far removed from what they have known so far. The requirements in the profiles remain unchanged both in terms of language skills and in terms of other required skills such as the requirement to have a driver's licence, knowledge of computer programs, etc. bpost no longer appeals to the Selor in the context of its recruitments. The conditions of recruitment are the same for all the winners at the selections made by the company, i.e. with the eventual award of an indefinite contract. bpost is not yet in a position to make an initial assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u14	Minister, thank you for your different answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u15	Question No 13566 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 13947 by Mr Peter Dedecker are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you about the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) study on digitalization opportunities. On Wednesday, September 7, BCG published the findings of Google's study on the opportunities for digitalization of the company. The content is, to say the least, uplifting: 300 000 potential jobs by 2020, of which 75 000 in 2016, doubling economic growth, some 45 billion euros in additional income for our businesses and households. These figures, which would make more than one government dream, were little or no confirmed by the McKinsey Global Institute, which was speaking, a week earlier, of a stake of 45 to 60 billion euros by 2025, provided - I quote - that "to draw all the salt from our digital potential". According to BCG, this government's Digital Plan goes in the right direction and that's all to your credit. However, according to the study, this is not enough. Digitalization must become the number one priority. Indeed, much remains to be improved. A fifth of our citizens do not know how to send an e-mail, and a quarter of them do not know how to transfer online. Of course, this situation tends to be reduced with an increasingly connected youth, but these figures remain worrying. Clearly, federated entities and local authorities have a role to play in maximizing our digital development potential. So, in your opinion, to what extent is it possible to amplify the digital plan? Are there any contacts with the Regions and Communities to develop an ambitious and coherent programme across the country and to make real use of all our possibilities for action in this area, making BCG and McKinsey's hopes a reality? Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u17	Madam, the Digital Belgium plan does not lack ambition and its spectrum covers the main levers of action to resolutely embark on our country's transition to the digital economy and society. While the objectives are a little more modest in terms of growth and job creation than the BCG study forecasts, they are probably a little more realistic in view of the current economic situation. Perhaps this can change in the years to come. Furthermore, I would remind you that these forecasts are based on an optimistic scenario involving both a full implementation of the digital single market at European level and the creation of the most favourable conditions for the development of the digital competitiveness of economies in terms of innovation, entrepreneurship, access to finance, regulation and competence. My administration is working closely with the federated entities to ensure that all opportunities for action to maximize our digital development potential are maximized. For example, the regions clearly have competence in the field of training and what is known as skills and jobs. But even in the telecom sector, there are a lot of things that are shared. For example, the federated entities and the federal state meet regularly within the Digital Agenda for Europe National Steering Committee to coordinate their respective actions on the single digital market at a strategic level and, where appropriate, discuss new initiatives that could be implemented. In addition, my administration regularly chairs and organises meetings between technical experts to coordinate and define a consolidated Belgian position for the meetings of the European Union expert groups, the purpose of which is to advance the work aimed at establishing the single digital market within the European Union, in accordance with the European Commission's strategy. Compared to the figures you have put forward for Belgians who do not use the Internet or who do not make electronic transfers, there is indeed a certain group for which it is rather difficult to take the step towards digitalisation. We are looking at what steps we could take to make this easier. I think one of the most important objectives of digital transformation is that it concerns everyone, not just part of the population. It's been a few months since we've been setting up a strategy for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u18	Minister, thank you for all this information. In any case, I see that we are moving in the right direction. Coordination with the Regions and the Communities is already underway, although your figures are a little less enthusiastic than those of BCG and McKinsey. I saw that the Higher Employment Council was still considering 43,000 jobs in the sector in 2016, which is not nothing. I therefore congratulate you on the plan you have put in place. Of course, I encourage you to find complementary measures to reduce this fracture that you have just described to me, which concerns a small part of the population a little more irreducible. I hear, however, that you are working to find solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u19	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, as part of the Digital Belgium plan, launched by the government at your initiative, a tax shelter scheme for start-ups and young SMEs was introduced in the summer of 2015. It aims to boost investment in enterprises under four years of age, with 30% tax exemption to the IPP for any investment in an SME, and 45% for the smallest start-ups. Ceilings were also imposed with a threshold of EUR 100 000 per year per investor and EUR 250 000 per company financed. A little more than a year after the launch of this tax shelter, which I believe is an excellent initiative to support the growth of our economy and the jobs we need so much, a first assessment is needed. Minister, what is your assessment today of this measure? Do you have figures and encouraging data on the number of investors and the amount of investments registered over the past year? What is the expected level of increase for the next few years? What measures, if any, have you chosen to improve the performance of the device?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u20	Mr Calomne, the exact impact of the measure is not yet known. We will have accurate tax services data for the first six months of the measure once the 2015 tax returns have been fully processed. This will not be the case until 2017. We have encouraging indications about the access of start-ups to capital, which is in fact the heart of our measure. The business angels associations show us a strong increase of people wishing to become one. The increase would be more than 15% for Be Angels. If you wish, we can put you in contact with them for more details. An academic Omar Mohout from Sirris has developed excellent statistics on fundraising for Belgian start-ups. Here are the data he provided to me in response to your question: the evolution of fund-raising by start-ups was characterized by a change in 2014 from 182 million by 72 companies, to 256 million in 2015, by 128 companies, an increase of 40%. Until 23 August 2016, €202 million was raised by 105 companies, representing an annual growth rate of 23%. These trends are also confirmed by Graydon, UCM and Unizo. 2015 was a record year for the creation of companies in Belgium. The trend continues in the first quarter of 2016 with an increase of 6.4% in the number of new entrepreneurs compared to the previous year. The use of the tax shelter is expected to accelerate with the possibility of investing under this scheme via crowdfunding and through funds. The legal framework for the approval of crowdfunding platforms and starters funds will apply this fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u21	Minister, thank you for the various elements of the answer. Indeed, the figures are encouraging, since within two years the increase is significant, even if, as you mentioned in the preamble to your answer, this should be confirmed with the next tax returns that we will receive in a few months. We will return at that time. Thank you for the contact you will wish to send in order to ensure follow-up in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u22	Joined Questions No 14009 by Mrs Maya Detiège, No 14022, No 14023 and No 14024 by Mr David Geerts are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u23	Minister, launched in April 2015, the Digitalent program is back for a second season at the beginning of October 2016. On the basis of the high level of youth unemployment in Belgium, and after having made contacts with various actors in the field and analysed what was being done abroad, it emerged that there was a kind of no man's land for a whole series of young people leaving upper secondary education. They then drop out of school and, for some, do not even register with ONEM as job seekers. They are thus excluded from all training and vocational integration schemes. According to figures published in the press, 12 per cent of the population of young people aged 15 to 24 is mentioned. Digitalent's goal is to bring these young people between the ages of 18 and 25, unemployed and low-skilled, to something concrete by offering them an experience in the field of ICT (information and communication technologies) supervised by professional coaches. The idea is not to repeat what is already being done, particularly in the head of regional training bodies (Forem, Actiris, VDAB), but to fill a gap by giving these young people the taste to work and carry out projects in teams. Last year, about 100 of these young people took part in the eight digital training courses. Each cycle, lasting eight weeks, took place in six different cities in Belgium. Workshops are held for eight weeks full-time (9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.). These include the discovery of design techniques, 3D printing, programming and website creation, entrepreneurship training, presentation techniques, CV writing. At the end of the cycle, an accompanying plan is drawn up with the Regional Employment Office and the Proximus Foundation. The aim is to support them in their efforts (research for training, internships, jobs). Of the first five cycles, 12 of the 59 participants have already found a job. It is therefore a very good initiative which seems to bear fruit. I would like to ask you the following questions on this subject. As the program is open to all, how are the youth included in it selected? What is the possibility for those who may not be taken up? Should they register for another session? Was there enough room? Do they need to be registered as job seekers with the ONEM? Who pays coaches and trainers? Is there a link with Proximus employees? What is the role of Proximus, particularly in terms of accompanying young people in seeking employment at the end of the programme? With regard to the accompanying plan drawn up by the Regional Employment Office and the Proximus Foundation, what is the concrete nature and duration of the plan? Given the relevance of this project, which addresses the challenge of low-skilled youth unemployment, is Proximus considering extending the program to more participants? How, if any, does the government intend to encourage Proximus to work in this direction? Finally, since the programme resumes at the beginning of October, would it be possible to attend a session of Digitalent's workshops with the Commission's colleagues and to meet with the young people who take part in it? It would certainly be an exciting experience, as this project responds to genuine challenges in our cities and regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u24	Mr Vanden Burre, the Proximus Foundation informs young job seekers through the regional employment service channels (VDAB, Forem, Actiris), but also by distributing postcards and by posting posters. Candidates first attend an information session. Those interested then take an interview. The selection criteria are mainly the motivation, the commitment to follow the entire program and the ability to integrate into the group. No prerequisites are required. The Regional Employment Office systematically offers other opportunities for training or accompaniment to young people who are not included in the programme. The Proximus Foundation also targets young people who are not initially enrolled in the ONEM. However, they are required to register for coverage during the program. In addition, this organization has developed the pedagogical model of getting young people to learn by trial and error in the field. It also coordinates each Digitalent program. Each accompanying plan shall be individualised on the basis of feedback from trainers and coaches and carried out with the young people concerned during individual interviews, allowing in particular to examine their expectations. It may include an offer of qualifying training, a return to school or an accompaniment to employment. The Proximus Foundation asks the Regional Employment Office to assign a reference to each of the young people who have completed the programme and to have an appointment with it the week immediately following the end of the programme. Indeed, it is important not to let the young person's enthusiasm fall after eight intense weeks in terms of skills acquisition and social integration. The Foundation develops contacts with companies active in the field of new technologies. It invites them to end-of-program events and connects young people to enable them to find an internship or a job. In addition, Proximus offers transition internships to young jobseekers. The Proximus Foundation pays technical training and trainers for entrepreneurship. The Regional Employment Service, which is always a partner, makes its coaches available to the project. There is also a coach who is an employee of Proximus to perform logistical tasks and support the trainers. The Proximus Foundation has planned nine sessions in 2016 and expects nine in 2017. The Proximus Foundation is open to contributions from other private and/or public partners with a view to extending its activities, whether in financial terms for the organisation of additional sessions, offers of internships or jobs or the provision of premises for the workshops. The Proximus Foundation is also ready to share its methodology with other sectors of activity that would like to replicate the initiative. The Proximus Foundation will welcome you with pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic506x.u25	Unfortunately, I am expected in another committee. Thank you for your answer, which I will carefully keep before I leave right away. I will write to the committee to see to what extent it is taken up. When things are interesting, you also have to be able to say it. It is our duty to take a concrete look at what is happening on the ground. This type of project is particularly interesting.
