ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, we are starting our afternoon work. The first point is an exchange of views with you on prisons. The questions that have been tabled will be incorporated into this exchange and will be considered as having been asked. Mr Brotcorne, a few weeks ago, you asked for this debate, this meeting. It is therefore quite normal for me to give you the floor first, as agreed, after a possible presentation by the minister to introduce the subject. There is no need to appoint a rapporteur because this debate is part of the question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration, the prison department and I welcome your interest in prison policy and prisons, especially since your attention is much broader than the construction projects alone. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to inform you more, in general terms, of the general lines of my future policy. Today 11 060 prisoners are staying in 34 prisons, while there is only room for 9 953 people. The overpopulation is therefore slightly more than 10%. About 2 years ago it was still about 21 %. With more than 11 000 prisoners in Belgium, there are more than 100 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. This is a lot more than in the Scandinavian countries, where the number of prisoners varies between 55 and 73 per 100 000 inhabitants, than in the Netherlands, where there are 62 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, than in Germany, where there are 75 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. It is about the same as in France, where there are 103 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, and as in Luxembourg, where there are 133 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. In Britain there are significantly more prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, 142. About 36% of our inmates are temporarily attached. This is more than for example in Great Britain with 15%, Germany with 17%, Finland with 18.7%, France with 21%, Sweden with 25% and Norway with 29 percent. There are, of course, countries where the percentage is higher. I have already announced on several occasions that the aim should be to reduce the population of our prisons in a sustainable manner below 10,000, taking into account the cellular capacity available and which will be expanded by new projects, but which will also be reduced due to the closure of certain sites that are no longer suitable. In addition, notice has been given with regard to Tilburg, where there are still 500 prisoners. The reduction of the population in our prisons should make it possible to house our prisoners in humane circumstances and provide them with adequate work, training, education, relaxation and resocialization activities. Prison staff have a certain interest in the convergence of cellular capacity and the number of prisoners. He is also very interested in ensuring security and order in and outside prisons. Two principles will be guiding: the protection of society and, as far as possible, the prevention of recidivism. This is of interest to everyone: society, the victims and the offenders themselves. How can we realize that? First of all, I would like to talk briefly about the infrastructure aspect. During the previous government period, a master plan was adopted that sets out an action plan for a prison infrastructure with humane conditions for the period 2008-2012-2016. The master plan was worked out, adapted and supplemented several times. As far as internal legal status is concerned, the infrastructure pillar, which is the subject of successive master plans, is a crucial element. The initiatives must help to put an end to the fact that our country is still getting convictions from various levels of justice, up to and including the European Court of Human Rights, for the inhuman treatment of detainees and interned persons. An important first step was taken in Masterplan I, which deals with the renovation of institutions for which the renovation was still a valid path: either the renovation or the expansion of capacity at existing sites. The Masterplan I also provided for the construction of four new prisons in Beveren, Leuze-en-Hainaut, Marche and Termonde. The construction of Termonde's last prison has not yet begun. These institutions have contributed, through their concept and to an important extent, to more humane living conditions for prisoners and more humane and comfortable working conditions for staff members. As everywhere in the world, architectural concepts evolve over time. Inspired by a study by the King Baudouin Foundation, a new important step was taken by the prison complex in Haren. This complex is very important in terms of the number of cells, in terms of its capacity and at the same time it takes a step forward in the evolution by creating user-friendly environments on a smaller scale for inmates, by a modern variant of the logic of the pavilion. For the time being, licensing procedures are still under way. We'll get back to it. Both the expansion and the renovation of prisons should therefore be continued through the implementation of existing master plans I and II. There are also the following projects: the FPC in Antwerp, the renovation of wing B in Leuven, Merksplas, Dendermonde and Haren. However, the master plan is not a static plan. It should be regularly adapted, as in the past, to take account of current developments. The modified version of the Master Plan, known as Master Plan III, will include an adapted inventory of infrastructure projects, as well as a clear differentiation in infrastructure projects with attention to specific target groups, such as internees, and smaller-scale forms of detention. The projects will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. It also takes into account what is the most favourable realisation and form of funding. This is currently being prepared, so that exact timing cannot yet be given. We will continue to work hard on this to finalize the plan soon. In any case, I would also like to see rationalisation and humanisation, which concerns both internment, execution of custodial sentences and provisional detention. As far as internment is concerned, we will, in the very short term, discuss here in the Justice Commission the amendments to the law of 5 May 2014, amendments included in the draft potpourri III law. The law and the implementation of the law work on an adapted policy and care path for interns, the further development of a forensic psychiatric care network, the elimination of the missing links in the existing forensic psychiatric care network and, in the long term, the establishment of a specialised observation and diagnosis centre. The prison is not an appropriate environment for an interned. The starting point is that interned persons should be given the necessary care and treatment to lead a decent life, taking into account the safety and health of the interned person. That provision is the guiding principle of the internalised person policy. Studies show that internees relapse less after receiving treatment. Together with Minister of Health De Block, I have already managed to provide places for the external forensic psychiatric sector: thirty longstay places in the university psychiatric center Sint-Kamillus in Bierbeek and thirty longstay places in Les Marronniers in Tournai. At the end of this year, the FPC Antwerp will also be able to accommodate the first internees. In view of the need for care and guidance of interns who cannot enter those special care units, in my master plan III for the prisons I pay attention to that subgroup of our prison population. That part of the master plan III will be completed in close consultation with Minister De Block, so that in the future we can offer all interns an adapted infrastructure and care path outside the penitentiary facilities. The exit from the prison of interned persons will provide capacity for convicted detainees and suspects in remand. On the future criminal law and the execution of penalties, I have the following vision. The prison sentence is reserved as an ultimatum medium for the punishment of heavier infringements. New forms of punishment are introduced alongside and equivalent to the custodial sentence. The penalty scale is enriched by new autonomous sanctions to rebalance criminal sanctions. The prison sentence is, after all, the most punitive and socially disruptive punishment that makes the intended reintegration of the convicted person most difficult. The prison sentence is also a very expensive penalty for society, EUR 50 000 per year per prisoner and at the same time a little effective form of punishment. That penalty should therefore be imposed only when the security of society requires it or other penalties do not appear to be sufficiently dissuasive and/or recompenseable in the light of the facts committed. Even then, the nature of the prison regime must make reintegration possible as much as possible. However, strengthening the credibility of the execution of the sentence remains a priority. The aim is to ensure that all penalties are implemented: the deprivation of liberty, the alternative and the pecuniary sentences. At a time when both criminal law and criminal procedural law are being renewed, the execution of the sentence must not be left behind. In addition to drawing up a new legal framework, attention will also be paid to the impact of the new legislation on penitentiary policy, both organisational and logistical, as well as on the external legal status of the convicted prisoner. In the future implementation of prison sentences, social recovery and reintegration are even more central. The legislation on external legal status is thoroughly amended, which in principle automatically exempts those sentenced to a prison sentence of up to 5 years from half of the penalties if they comply with the statutory requirements of parole, recovery and exclusion of recidivism. However, on the basis of an investigation carried out by the prison administration, the Public Prosecutor will always retain the power to automatically withhold the exemption in cases where the legal requirements are not met and to submit the file to the criminal enforcement court for assessment. For convicted persons with more than five years' sentence, systematic intervention by the criminal enforcement court remains necessary. The time requirement for early release will therefore be at least half of the sentence. Finally, I refer here to the coalition agreement, which states that for very serious crimes, the courts will have, on the substance, the possibility of determining that a minimum proportion of the sentence should be imposed, the so-called security period. I'll put that topic in the potpourri IV draft. The control of the prison population is, of course, also about the control of pre-trial detention. It is a judicial measure of deprivation of liberty which is applied as a result of committing a crime before the defendant is definitively convicted. Pending a comprehensive reform of criminal procedure, the functionality of the provisional detention should already be restored. It should only be permitted in the event of a risk to public security and of a risk of recurrence, withdrawal or obstruction of the investigation. Here too, I will propose measures under the potpourri IV draft law, as I promised by the potpourri II Act, by delaying the entry into force of the renewal of the provisional detention every two months until 1 July 2016. In Belgium, about 36% of prisoners have not yet been definitively convicted. That percentage represents about 3 600 prisoners. Figures from 2010 show that 32% of provisionally attached persons are suspected of ordinary thefts or thefts with forced entry without violence and 28% for drug offences. Without underestimating the impact of these crimes, it can be seen that most persons in custody did not commit violence or sexual offences or other crimes that violated the integrity of victims. The ambition is to reduce the large number of attached persons for the time being, without compromising the protection of society or harming the requirements of a judicial investigation. This can be done through various measures, which I would like to come back to in the course of the debate, if you will. Finally, the increase from one year to two or even three years in order to request and issue an immediate arrest at the sitting is also a rational solution to avoid unnecessary detentions, as is, moreover, the increase in the time of arrest, but this is the subject of debate in Parliament itself at the moment. The immediate arrest is a separate title of liberty, which aims to counter the danger of withdrawal after judgment by the judge. In practice, it is established that a conviction by default of up to one year is almost always accompanied by an immediate arrest order. Those people go to jail for a few days or weeks. After all, they immediately object, appear before the judge, who often, when he sees the person in front of him, pronounces a considerably lower sentence, a work sentence or a sentence with delay. The days or at most a few weeks that the person spends in prison are not only counterproductive for the person from a family, social and professional point of view, but are also an overload for the arrest houses and contribute to the overpopulation. About 10% of the houses are occupied by such very short-stayers. The system of payment of a deposit may be an accurate instrument to meet the legal criterion of the withdrawal risk, provided that adjustment is made. Now the law provides for an effective payment to be made. However, this is not always possible, given the limited financial capacity of the prisoner and of his social and family entourage, at least the limited liquidity. The deposit system may be extended, whereby one or more third parties deposit the defendant without effective payment, so that he does not withdraw and complies with the conditions for his release. In the event of withdrawal or violation of the conditions, the government would have a enforceable claim on the third party. The system already exists in some European countries. Of course, speeding up the judicial investigations is also a means of speeding up the detention. That, too, is a point which I would like to address in the course of the debate, if you wish. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have already demonstrated in the introduction that the implementation of punishments and measures and the prison system will be reformed and rationalised in all its aspects, not least in order for the penitentiary staff to carry out their duties and mission properly and for the detainees to undergo their detention in humane and reintegrational conditions. It is a great work, which I have used together with the penitentiary administration and for which I will also need your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u3	Mr President, Minister, last June I was already asking the Committee on Justice, on the occasion of a question concerning the Haren prison, to look at this mega-project and the problems that might be faced. At the request of the minister and the commission, it was agreed to extend the debate to the entire prison policy, which I find timely and interesting. However, I feel that the method adopted this afternoon, including questions and answers, does not allow for a real debate. In any case, it is not in one afternoon that we can look at all the problems that exist in our prison policy, which includes, as the minister has mentioned, several chapters. I would therefore like to hope that this discussion is only the beginning of a broader debate with the examination of each of the chapters. I think I can say that the situation in prisons is purely scandalous for a state that wants to be democratic and modern. I am of course aware, Minister, that the current situation is not the result of your management but rather of past management. Today, we are suffering the consequences of policies based on a poor assessment of the situation, often because of a lack of resources. Without wishing to burden me on the matter, we must note the old age of many prisons, the overcrowding of which – as you have pointed out – the main cause is pre-trial detention. Security policies over the past few years that lead to longer sentences and conditional release limits can be considered to also contribute to prison overcrowding. There is a backlog in the judiciary of the Penal Enforcement Court, a chronic underfunding of the justice system, a lack of prison officers whose role is considerable, as is psychosocial supervision in prisons. There is the general deterioration of the socio-economic conditions of the population that leads us to think – and in my opinion, it is not just a sticky effect – that, in the end, prison is the proper one for the poor and that those who are there and who remain there are already particularly marginalized. Thus, the prison is and remains a place of relegation, a factory of exclusions and is particularly criminogenic. When we talk about the fight against recidivism, it is certainly not today that we can pride ourselves on finding ways to avoid these considerations that lead to recidivism. I agree with some authors - it's interesting to read the right authors again. For example, "custodial punishment is the most punitive and socially disturbing punishment, which most complicates the future reintegration of the convicted person. For society, imprisonment is also a form of punishment that is both very expensive and inefficient. The authorities must also take into account prison overcrowding." This is point 101 of Minister Geens' Justice Plan, with which I am obviously in perfect fit and which merely relays the statement I have just made. I don't know if we have time, but we should address the problem of prison overcrowding, the equally important problem of accompaniment of the inmate is the law of principles, and the law on the legal status of the inmate, the construction of the new prisons but also their models. You said: "Any new contemporary architecture can bring its lot of problems and difficulties". We should also talk about the financing of these new prisons, and in particular the choice that arises for Haren and the three prisons you mentioned (Beveren, Leuze-en-Hainaut, Termonde). The problem of recurrent strikes in the prison environment should be addressed, and therefore the problem of the minimum service should be addressed. In any case, it is a matter of avoiding the need for police areas to replace the absence of guards. All these problems would deserve our attention. However, in my opinion, we will not have time to deal with all this seriously this afternoon. I will only quickly go over a few points: the overcrowding and the inmate's accompaniment. I often refer to this study by the Court of Auditors, which was published in 2011. Mr Minister, you recalled that, in view of the information that the Court at that time had been able to collect, among all the measures examined, "only early release had a substantial impact on the population". It is possible, however, that if certain measures - you referred to them - namely the new penalties that are being applied today, the penalty of work, electronic surveillance, conditional freedom did not exist, the overcrowding of prisons would be even more acute, but no information was available on this subject. What is the policy we are implementing today? We are suffering the effects of this previous policy, which is denounced in this 2011 Court of Auditors study. So what is being done to reverse the trend, to combat prison overcrowding? What is being done to frame and take better account of, for example, early freedom? I feel like we're doing the opposite, and we're still doing the opposite. You are always announcing to us decisions to come in the context of global reflections on the sentence, the nature of the sentence, its height, which must still be the subject of criminal decisions and therefore, possibly detentions in prison, but I have the feeling that, since you are a minister, you also persist in the direction of increasing sentences, limiting conditional release, individualizing the sentence and the means given to the magistrates to assess in concrete terms each situation. As if they were not in a position to properly understand the situations and because of widespread laxity, they would tend to follow and listen to the accused or his counsel rather than arguments of reason or individualization of the sentence, which would help us greatly in the fight against prison overcrowding. So, if your only answer is to increase prison capacity, I don't think we're going to solve the problem on a sustainable basis. We can build on what has happened in other countries where the increase has not led to a decrease in the prison population, but rather to an increase in the prison population. A general assessment of prisons, with their modes of detention, throughout the country, would seem to me to be very useful. Because, besides the repressive aspect of punishment, we must also consider – and I like it when you say so – the pedagogical aspect which makes it possible to explain to the one who finds himself behind bars the reason why he finds himself there and, above all, what we will do with him so that he gets out as quickly as possible and, if possible, better than when he entered. We're a long way off today. The commission, during the previous legislature, moved to the new prison in Marche-en-Famenne where it was possible to assess the somewhat special management methods of this institution, which do not correspond to what the director of another prison is going to do. I will not mention a place not to make unnecessary parallels. I was surprised to see that prison directors enjoy what they would call it if they were in the educational and educational environment, a form of educational freedom. They are told: "In your prison, you do a bit of what you want, as long as it works, that there are no difficulties and that if there are any, they do not go back to the FPS Justice. As long as everything goes well in your prison, you do something about it." It is unusual and surprising not to have at least one outline in our prison policy. I am not saying that there is a need to undermine the autonomy of the directorates of prisons, but we should have a minimum framework in which to register. This would probably require the revision or implementation of certain sections of the Status of Prisoners Act. It was a first aspect. The second aspect concerns the new models of prisons, their size and their financing. This is the subject of growing debate. When we talk about Haren, we have in mind a mega project of 1,200 places, although I know that, very regularly, you are trying to reduce its impact by arguing about the future pavilion system and ensuring that it will not be a single construction with 1,200 cells. When one refers to the pavilion system (or huizen) which is widely spoken of as a model for reflection on reintegration, one does not think of these models distributed in a single environment. We do not see these pavilion systems spread over 5, 10 or 15 hectares with 1,200 pavilions even if they are spaced by greenery here, roads and a pond there. In these models, we aim to get as close as possible to what is real life in society and not in ghettos. We're trying to adopt a useful vision of being in prison. I'm getting to the technology of the new prisons. It is known that Forest poses enormous problems and everyone is asking for this prison to be emptied as soon as possible and its detainees transferred to other more suitable places. As a mayor of a commune with a new prison on its territory, Leuze-en-Hainaut, to not mention it, it is known that detainees who were called to this prison, such as those in Marche or Beveren, were disturbed by the high tech environment and by the lack of social ties they might have had with the staff, whether they were prison staff or accompanying staff. Everything is settled by a button, a phone call or an intranet. These detainees requested to return to the most old prisons. This means that when one answers a question about the degradation of the physical environment and infrastructure with today's models, it leads to further difficulties and disruptions in the social link that can be created with the inmate. It would probably also merit reflection on the subject. The financing of these new prisons is a problem. We know that the state budget is not directly impacted by the DBFM conventions. We know that if, tomorrow, the Haren project is to continue as imagined and even if we ask the question of the legal basis for the existence of the projects that are being implemented around Haren, the financial resources to be spent will be enormous and we are not even sure that your budgets are sufficient to forecast these costs. A motion for a resolution has been tabled – I think it has already been taken into account – which should lead our committee to debate this issue. I propose that we do not dwell on it too much today. But we cannot help thinking about the mega centre in Haren with, beyond funding, beyond user-friendliness, all the problems we hear about in this prison. The third point I wanted to address relates to strikes. They are relatively recurrent in the prison environment. They show a difficulty both in the head of the prisoners and in the head of the prison staff. These strikes are relatively common. Zonal police frequently replace the absence of guards in the event of a strike. I wonder whether these are essential tasks of the police. I come back to my local example of Leuze-en-Hainaut. I am president of a police area of two communes that has 57 inspectors at its service. When a strike lasts several days in a prison, if I have to put a few inspectors in my police area, I must necessarily detach them from other tasks. I heard a few leads. I am surprised that you did not mention it in your presentation, but perhaps you will confirm it in your speech in response to questions from parliamentarians. The assessment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the FPS Justice and the trade union organizations has not made much progress since the time of Ms Turtelboom, during the previous legislature. I know you've resumed negotiations with trade union organizations to see if we can adapt it. I see you're saying no. You will probably answer us more precisely later. It had been said that if we could not take stock of this memorandum of understanding, the policy would have to decide on this minimum service and how to organise it. I have heard you refer to a transfer of security officers as personnel who could supplement prison guards during strikes instead of resorting to local police. Do you confirm this possibility? Finally, we cannot avoid talking about the Forest prison, whose deplorable state is well known and where tensions are high. It does not happen a week without those who work there or enter for reasons related to their monitoring obligations or volunteerism coming out of it by recalling the persistence of several problems. In this regard, what is the rate of completion of the prison framework? Similarly, since it is often referred to, what is the rate of absenteeism? We know he's been growing since last October. What about the framework for psycho-medical-social support staff? Minister, you will have every opportunity to answer my questions without the need for me to take them back in their entirety. Are there any plans for work in Forest or are it considered to be permanently out of service, so that the detainees will be transferred before they are demolished or moved to Haren? Are those who are still there part of a plan to transfer to other prisons in or outside the Brussels Region? On the other hand, it seems that in some prisons, but I am talking about it to the conditional as the method surprises me, so-called "security" practices would aim at awakening prisoners every hour. Are these facts known to you? Do you confirm them? Is it not, moreover, to stem this phenomenon – if it is real – that a pilot project on the side of the prison in Bruges was launched? Finally, are we going to put an end to the principle of the trio, that is, the presence of three prisoners in a single cell which is designed for only one person, or even two at the most? Mr President, these are the key questions I wanted to address. There are many others with regard to the prison policy that should be that of our State. I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back on other occasions to what we have not discussed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u4	Mr President, I understand that this is a general exchange of views. It is an amalgamation, a range of measures and perspectives on this theme. Mr Minister, as with government statements and your policy notes, you are leaving the prison population or making the comparison with other countries. As far as the population or overcrowding of the penal institutions is concerned, you aim to remain below 10 000 prisoners. You also refer to Tilburg, the law on external legal status and pre-trial detention. You say that we need to take a number of measures in various areas. Perhaps they will be further deepened later. Despite the fact that it is general terminology, I continue to find what you say about dissuade important. Furthermore, I also hear recompenses being paid, I find it difficult to punish or at least punish and reintegrate. In the whole of punishment, penal institutions and the way we treat people, reintegration remains a very important element. When people come back to society, it is important that they also have an effective feeling that this is happening. In this sense, I believe that there are cooperation agreements with the Communities, even though we do not always hear so much about them. With regard to reintegration, the prison system would also cooperate with the Communities on routes to leave prison. We do not have a direct view of what this means and whether this is being evaluated. In a previous life, I was in the Flemish Parliament where we were given an annual follow-up to how this works. Could we also have some insight into it here? This is an important element in the operation of the criminal institutions. I understand that, if I may put it this way, master plans I, II and III are working on the one hand to renew the institutions but on the other hand to increase capacity. You effectively hope to achieve a good but also human occupation. At the same time, you also refer, among other things, to measures relating to pre-trial detention. That's one of your stickhorses, too. It is also a story that has been going on for a long time in our criminal history. We are one of the countries with the greatest use of pre-trial detention compared to our neighbouring countries. You also mention the rates of theft without violence and drugs. I hear the question as to whether it is necessary to provide for remand. I learned at the time that pre-trial detention should be motivated very explicitly, not only in terms of security, but also in terms of the possible loss of evidence and the like. One would actually expect that motivation would be there, but standards are used. Could you give us a little more insight into what might be the measures to further reduce the detention? You also say that the legal text and the legal status are coming up. I don't know what potpourriwet this will be included in. I would have liked to have some clarification on this. You also made an allusion at the detention centers. These are small-scale living environments, not only spatially but also in terms of approach within the detention homes. A pilot project would be launched somewhere. I wonder what this means in concrete terms in the years to come. When would you start such a thing? Any locations set up yet? Is there any idea who would be eligible and how it would work? I ask this question because it is important to know whether this can be taken into account in the whole of a further roll-out of the prison system. As in other sectors, these may be individual projects, but they may also be larger buildings in which smaller-scale units are built more on a human scale. I would have liked to have a little more explanation about this. There will soon be a draft for further approximation of legislation on internment. We shall then be able to discuss this in sufficient detail. However, the question remains and you will not only solve It's not just about the now, it's also about making a piece of history and future for those interned. Today some 800 interned people sit behind prison walls, including 270 in Ghent and about 180 in Antwerp. You mentioned long stay which provides you with two additional settings. There would also be a specific demand for care for women and for psychiatric care for children. The question is whether there is sufficient capacity for this. If there is no such thing, how can we continue to work on it? I am thinking not only of interned people in a prison environment but also of how we can make the link to the outside world and to care much stronger. Colleague De Block is working on this and is committed to it. I also have a private question that I asked earlier, but which was put in the back of the questionnaire. It's a question about making information available to prisoners digitally. After all, they were promised access to the Internet. A second part of my question concerns the letters of conversion. Are they available and how are they made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I shall confine myself to a few simple questions. What's the status of the master plan? I had hoped for a little more concrete information and timing, but I understand that it is still coming. In the meantime, you have already answered my question about overpopulation. I am still amazed how high that number is still. I am aware that there are still many challenges ahead of us. Can you tell us which prisons face this most? I understand that you cannot answer that immediately today. I would also like to put the question in writing. However, it is important to map that. If, for example, it were Antwerp, we know that there will soon be a separate institution for the interns who will solve the problem. I'm very interested in the Prison Cloud in Belgian prisons. I remember that we had very little to think of when this first came up. The minister then failed to explain it properly either. By now, everyone understands much better what that cloud means. I would like to know what is going on right now. Where are we with that? In which prisons will this be operational very soon? In which not? I'm mainly talking about the older prisons. Then, Minister, I have a question on a subject on which I have not heard you say anything, but which interests me. There has always been talk of the creation of wings in Hasselt and Ittre for terrorist suspects. I would have liked to have heard from you about the situation in this area. You have already mentioned that there are still about 500 prisoners in Tilburg. We also know that you intend to stop the lease there. Since the number of prisoners remains so high, it remains 11 000, I wonder whether you will stick to that intention or whether you will perhaps extend the rent and whether you will have a solution for this additional 500. Mr Minister, next question has been with me for a long time, it concerns Protocol 351 and the introduction of a guaranteed service. I asked you a question about this recently. There is consultation with the trade unions, you indicated that this is going smoothly and constructively. What is the state of play today in this respect? Finally, with regard to the Central Prison Supervisory Board, the local supervisory committee, the government agreement states that they will be placed with an independent institution attached to the Chamber. Perhaps you could say a little more about this. In what way do you wish to achieve this? What is the state of affairs and timing in this respect? Of course, this is a very important aspect because the people who work there often do so in a voluntary way. This does, however, affect the well-being and importance of many prisoners. I would like to know what the state of affairs is there, because this will have an impact on the further functioning of these councils, because a whole part of them is still standing still. I would be interested to get a little more information from you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u6	Minister, thank you for your brief presentation. We expect a radical change in philosophy For my group, prison policy in our country is still blocked in the 20th century. When you presented your Justice Plan, you said you wanted justice to enter the 21st century. We can only encourage you in this direction because the management of prisons can no longer be based on a purely punitive logic. In the Haren prison project, spaces of conviviality are provided, it is a good thing. For this to make sense, it is necessary to rethink deprivation of liberty in terms of reintegration. This is in the interest of society, the prisoner and the budget devoted to justice. As you said, an inmate costs 50,000 euros a year. With 11,060 inmates, we have reached about 553 million dollars per year for prisons. If we want to pursue an effective policy, we can no longer throw people into cells without looking at what is happening there. We can no longer accept that persons sentenced to imprisonment are held in detention in their own lot, without any work preparing for their reintegration. The time of imprisonment must see the inmate evolve day after day, training after training, towards a state of mind different from the one with which he entered detention. It therefore requires a positive evolution The passage through the prison box must bring a greater benefit to the inmate, so that the detention has done his work and we do not allow ourselves to go to idleness or in any case to stay in a cell 23 hours a day in promiscuity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u7	In our recent hearings in the Justice Committee on a proposal for a law on the enforcement court, it was recalled that the number of prisoners serving sentences has exploded in recent years. We increased from 32% in 2007 to 47% in 2013. The cause of this is the cumbersome nature of the proceedings giving rise to the right to an adjustment of the sentence. This development – in this case we should talk about regression – is obviously proof of collective failure. It is time to realize that people who go to prison are released without any preparation. The experts, and even an association of relatives of victims, told us. The use of parole should be avoided, and the use of parole should be encouraged as much as possible. It obliges the inmate to prepare for reintegration and allows the inmate to no longer be a risk or burden to the community. As I said, we must make a radical change in philosophy in order to put an end to a system which unfortunately is too late and insufficiently preparing for reintegration. At the same time, in view of prison overcrowding and the cost of detention, the use of alternatives to imprisonment should be encouraged, particularly for short-term sentences. Instead of giving meaning to the penalty, short-term imprisonment causes much more damage than it results in profits. Indeed, they desocialize the convicted person and sometimes plunge her into an even more criminogenic environment. This fact is recalled by many experts. It is therefore imperative that penalties that are meaningful to victims, offenders, police, the judiciary and other actors in society be applied. I would like to recall what Mr De Valkeneer said so well: it is not the severity of the sanction that is dissuasive but the certainty of being punished. It is better to have a sentence actually executed. Otherwise, we do not abandon our criminal ambitions. We don't say "it's increased, I'm likely to be incarcerated for 30 or 40 years (with the new pot-pourri II that will be discussed tomorrow)". Effective penalties and clear sanctions are preferable. In addition, the deprivation of liberty ordered in the context of pre-trial detention, i.e. pre-trial detention, must, in any case in the first place, preserve the physical security of citizens, so as not to increase overcrowding. Indeed, the use of pre-trial detention must be carefully considered and not systematically become a means of pressure to obtain confessions. In the absence of absolute necessity for public safety, it must be avoided to the maximum extent. Where the State is required to ensure that the alleged perpetrator of certain acts is not escaped from justice, other measures, such as the use of the electronic bracelet, must be able to be ordered. Unfortunately, we will not anticipate the debate that will take place tomorrow in plenary on "pot-pourri II". The majority seem to sink into old blindly depressive solutions that reinforce pre-trial detention, which exclude the use of alternative sentences and keep convicts locked up for longer periods of time. In addition to this, there is a short-term vision of budget savings, with the goal of reducing the number of guards by 10% despite prison overcrowding. In doing so, the government risks creating an even more harmful climate that will result in an ever higher rate of absenteeism and increasing tensions, so that the lack of staff will force prison management to eliminate the inmate's social activities. The result will be even more tension and insecurity. It can only be seen that policy in this area is a policy of regression. I'm going to the internment. It should be borne in mind that the internment of the mentally ill in the psychiatric annexes of prisons for a long time without any treatment has been and continues to be the subject of many justified criticisms in more than one capacity. I would remind you that Belgium was the subject of an umpteenth conviction by the European Court of Human Rights, in particular in January 2013, on the deplorable situation of psychiatric annexes to prisons, on the stark lack of adequate health care for prisoners and on the cruel lack of places in the appropriate care facilities. There is, of course, a need to remedy this. Since we are in a general discussion, I will obviously have several questions about the evolution of our prisons. In the long run, I would like to know how many places does the government intend to create or abolish in prisons? Does the government envisage a new distribution between places in detention centres and prisons? And in what proportion, especially between closed and semi-open prisons? What will be the evolution in psychiatric annexes and social welfare institutions? I would also like to return to the case of Haren prison. You are not unaware that we have signed our agreement on the construction of a new mega prison We obviously assume the choice of this location. The deplorable state in which the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles are located requires an urgent solution. In the cells of these prisons, the State is no longer in a position to ensure conditions of confinement consistent with human dignity. The Haren project would make no sense if Forest and Saint-Gilles did not close in parallel. These two sites are intended to be integrated into the ambitious urban plan proposed by the Brussels Region. On the other hand, this does not prevent us from questioning how the government manages this issue. The total lack of transparency has been recalled, it is staggering in this case. Several MEPs have repeatedly asked for access to documents linking the state to Cafasso. It is only by putting an end to the multiple answers given to the multiple questions asked by multiple Members that a vague idea of the state's obligations can be reached, and again, it remains rather vague! In addition, a series of questions have been asked about the adequacy of the project to current needs. Why is there only a semi-open prison for women and not for men? Are there sufficient cells for social defence? These are questions that remain outstanding and have not received specific answers. I hope you will be able to clarify this. Today, it can be said that there are too many cells for pre-trial detention. Such a distribution runs counter to the objectives of reducing the use of pre-trial detention, which is primarily responsible for prison overcrowding, since it accounts for 60 per cent of prisoners in Brussels prisons. This demonstrates your lack of confidence in the reforms of prison policies, particularly with your future law on pre-trial detention, which we are obviously looking forward to. We sometimes discuss, chronologically and somewhat prematurely, certain provisions which we do not see to what they are going to lead to. That is also why we have postponed the parties to PP2 pre-trial detention to June, when we know more about this future law. The execution of the project is also critical in that the law provides for courtrooms within the prison itself within the framework of this mega prison in Haren. This lack of a clear distinction between the place of debate and the place of detention is detrimental to the right of the defence because it is simply an attack on the presumption of innocence. An accused person must appear free and in a neutral environment. That is part of the logic advocated by the majority in last week's debate on the Videoconferencing Act. We recalled the guarantees and criticisms made by lawyer.be. These criticisms, I make them my own, they also apply to what is happening in Haren prison. Not only must the accused appear free and in a neutral environment, in the minds of all concerned, and the judge in particular. This means that the courtrooms must be separate from the prison, placed outside its enclosure and their access must also be different. Democratic transparency requires that the cost of the widespread use of the DBFM contract be assessed. My colleague, Mr Brotcorne, called him back. We cannot ignore that a 2010 report by the French Court of Auditors has shown that the annual compensation awarded by the State to private providers is two to three times higher than when a prison is entirely public. In this context, the costs of maintaining, operating and operating the prison, which are known to last at least 25 years, remain completely unknown. We are talking about amounts with a real budgetary impact, as they reach several tens of millions of euros per year. It is for this reason that we have co-signed the motion for a resolution for the government to submit the Haren draft for an evaluation by the Court of Auditors to have more precise figures and transparency as to the cost that this will entail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u8	Minister, I am very pleased that we are able to discuss prison policy today. We've had a failed prison policy for years. We're not just saying that. You should take a look at the Court of Auditors' report, which has already been referred to, in which a very critical analysis has been made. It is precisely for this reason that we were satisfied with the content of your policy paper at the beginning of the legislature. I also said that I thought it was brave. You included two important points in your policy paper. Firstly, we must be able to reduce the prison population to 10 000 prisoners. In Belgian politics and Belgian judicial history, it is revolutionary for the Minister of Justice to put forward a maximum. Secondly, you point out that custody is still a problem. You repeated that today, and you suggested that maximum time limits be set for remand, depending on the nature and gravity of the crime. That's very brave. I just don't know if your coalition partners will follow. Indeed, if you want to achieve your target of up to 10 000 prisoners, a number of difficult and daring choices will indeed have to be made. Minister, I have a few brief questions. I think it is important, starting from the objectives you have set out, to examine a number of issues. Have you and your administration made projections of the evolution of the prison population in the medium and long term? You say that it is your goal to go to a maximum of 10 000 prisoners, but do you want to achieve that within two or three years or within ten years? Or is that for the next generations? It's good to know when you want to achieve that. What impact does this have on investment and infrastructure? There is no point in taking decisions today on the construction of new infrastructure if you go to 10 000 prisoners in the long term and therefore pursue fewer prisoners than today, unless it is a question of replacing obsolete, obsolete buildings. That is, of course, also in relation to the prison in Tilburg, on which you have decided that its use will end at the end of this year. Of course, the 500 prisoners must be able to be transferred to Belgian prisons from there. Our prison population and overpopulation are currently falling, but by the end of the year 500 prisoners will be added. Those prisoners, of course, have to fit in. My first question is therefore how you see it, what time you plan, what the projections are and whether all this is feasible. Here's what I'd like to link up with. A master plan III has been announced for a long time, but we have been hungry for a long time. Is that because it is difficult with your colleagues and coalition partners in the government? I don't know. Last year the master plan III was announced a few times. Today we are having a debate on prisons, but you are still unable to present the master plan III. I quote that because in the past a lot of slopes have been launched about new prisons. It is important to know whether or not these slopes are realistic. With the arrival of the new government, some locations may have changed. That's how I used to hear there were plans for a prison in Ostend. Is that plan still realistic? I also heard plans about a prison in Leopoldsburg, but there may be no change in this respect in relation to the previous legislature, because these conditions have not changed. I'd like to know if those slopes are still realistic. There is a link to my previous question, because if it is intended to be structuralally out of 10 000 prisoners, while there are already several things in the pipeline, such as the new prisons in Haren and Dendermonde, which may one day be realized if everything is resolved legally, then the question arises as to whether a prison in Ostend or Leopoldsburg is still needed. In the meantime, you have announced that several new initiatives will be taken for interned people, which will also lead to an exit from prison. What possible new projects are coming and are they still needed? A third reflection concerns staff in relation to the new infrastructure. In recent years, new infrastructure has been created in Leuze, Beveren and Marche-en-Famenne. At the same time, however, you must save on the staff, which means that you do not have enough penitentiary staff to run those institutions at 100%. So we come into a situation where there is new construction and there are places where these places cannot be used because of insufficient framework. Although we are in Belgium, that is a bit contradictory and incomprehensible. My question is therefore very simple how many of the newly finished sites cannot be used because of the lack of staff. I refer as an example to the prison of Leuze. Fourthly, we have a huge backlog to overcome. We were convicted several times. The dossier has received little political attention for years, but that has now changed. There's the FPC Gent now. That is a good thing, although there are also a number of problems. I shall put a separate question on that. Were it not useful to first evaluate the way the FPC Ghent works and the contracts that have been concluded before concluding new contracts for the FPC Antwerp? Can we not draw lessons from the experience from Ghent so that we can take the good things with us and fix the lower points before we conclude new contracts or engage partners? You have said in the past that Antwerp has already been started and that the evaluation will be too late to take the conclusions into account. I'm sorry about that. That might create new problems. Then there is a second problem. We have FPC Gent and later FPC Antwerp. One can organise an outflow from the prisons to the FPCS, but there must also be an outflow from the FPCS. People must be able to function in society again or be brought to other institutions. I hear now that FPC Gent is full or almost full, but there's no outflow. Why not? Because some internees are unable to move on after two or three months because the treatment and counselling still need to be intensively maintained for a few months, but also because there may be too little outpatient care when people leave the FPC. You're saying you're working with Minister De Block, but I think you're going to have to step up on this. After all, there is no point in creating new FPC debt instruments if no outflow can be realised. Then the train that's supposed to get going will stop. It's a good thing you're also thinking about lung stay for cases where release is impossible. We must find a solution to this. In any case, it is a good thing to invest in it. You refer to Bierbeek and Tournai: two times 30 places for long stay. How will this be exploited? Will this remain in the hands of the FPS Justice or the penitentiary institutions or will this be privatised? How will these institutions be operated? I come to my fifth point. You know that we attach great importance to the differentiation in the execution of sentences. One can interpret that scary or broad. The scary interpretation is what we have often heard in recent months. Look at Haren. It is a large site but there will be a differentiation within the site itself. I have reservations about this because such mega-projects are outdated concepts that should never have been approved and that we should have stopped. When we talk about differentiated detention, you know what we mean. These are the small-scale initiatives that have been carried out in recent years. You announced in your policy paper that you are prepared to give a number of pilot projects a chance. I think that is a very good thing. I understand that you still have to go to the Council of Ministers and I hope that you will get it through there. I therefore hope that you will be supported in implementing a number of pilot projects. Hopefully these evaluations will be positive and a policy can be pursued in the coming years. My question in this context is how concrete these plans are and within what time limit we can expect a pilot project to be launched effectively. Sixthly, it was interesting that you said that we might be able to solve the problem by speeding up the judicial investigations. I agree. If we can speed up procedural law and procedure, we can have effective positive effects in prisons. The only question is whether the policy that is being pursued today by you and the government will lead to it being speeded up. Those are other dossiers, but with the heavy savings on staff and resources and the problems with experts and others, I shall not go into any further details, you know those problems, I do have serious questions as to whether this will lead to an acceleration of the investigations. We can also see that the legal backlog has been increasing again in recent years, including through savings on staff and so on. So that is a good principle, but I do not think that the policy pursued will in practice lead to an acceleration. Seventhly, you mentioned the cost of detention, EUR 50 000 per person per year. Could you please explain how that is calculated? What's in there? Does that include housing, personnel costs, exploitation, food and so on? Is there a differentiation, a difference, between the prisons? Have you calculated, for example, what it costs for a year in Haren and Bruges, in Lantin or Ghent? Are there any differences? How can these differences be explained? Are these possible explainable by the choice of private-public cooperation? The private partners obviously want to make money, that's obvious. This question is in line with Mr De Wit's question on supervision. A year ago, we discussed a proposal on supervision of people living in detention. We were thinking of setting up a monitoring body. You said that you were working on it and that a human rights institute would be set up. One of the elements of that institute was intended to exercise supervision. It would come under Parliament's control. We've been a year. What's the status of that exercise and specifically of the inmate surveillance component? Over the last few days, it is mainly about young people who are placed in cells because of lack of accommodation in youth institutions. Do you have any specific figures on this? Do these kids have to spend the night in jail? How does that happen? In which judicial districts is this particularly the case? Do you have any figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u9	Minister, thank you for this exchange of views. It's been a little over a year since you took office and it's a great opportunity to know your feelings about prison policy in general. You have already committed yourself for the first time to the justice plan with your ambition over the five years. You provided guidance on your vision of prison policy. A year later, it is interesting to ask you some concrete questions that come in line with what is happening in the Justice Committee on Wednesday afternoon. At least one third of the questions put by parliamentarians in this committee concern prison policy and problems encountered in prisons. This is a recurring subject that today allows us to leave the formal nature of the questions and answers to have, I hope, elements closer to your personal sensitivity What makes you feel sorry for yourself? We can each have our own definition of punishment, an idea of what it should be. It would be interesting to hear about this today and to know how you appreciate its usefulness and your notion of punishment. The population too often ignores – or pretends to ignore – that one always ends up getting out of prison. It feels like once in prison there's a stop and we don't know what's going on after that. We must have the courage to tell the people that if a prisoner costs 50 000 euros a year, that money must be useful. It is not just about protecting society through confinement. It is also the hope – perhaps in vain if we take into account recidivism – that behind this confinement there will be education, training, work, culture and social or sporting assistance so that people who will always come out, with few exceptions, get out better than they have entered. Much effort has already been made in this area. I have had the opportunity to visit several prisons with other Members of Parliament or on an individual basis. Obviously, we can see the efforts already made in prisons: there are libraries, sports halls, places where we can work... But all this is not enough to reduce recidivism. Several of my colleagues have addressed the problem of prison overcrowding. That's an obvious problem. Overpopulation is decreasing. The figures from 2014 to 2015 show us an improvement. But in some prisons, for example in Saint-Gilles, cells unfortunately still accommodate three prisoners, which is unacceptable. We will pay attention to the measures that you will implement, in the light of your previous statements, to ensure that the prison population decreases. Not for a reduction in compliance with the standard, but for an evolution in its effectiveness, prison being the final solution. There may be other upstream solutions to avoid having to go through the prison block. As part of this discussion, I could ask you a lot of questions in all areas. Not asking them does not mean that they do not deserve our attention, but it is sometimes necessary to limit their remarks to a few very specific elements. I would like to address the major problem of managing statistics in our country with regard to prison policy. It is very difficult to carry out policies if they cannot be compared with the reality of the figures. Several times, the need for this data bank has been reiterated. Since September 2014, the Sidis Suite application has been implemented. I would like to know the state of implementation of this platform. Do all prisons use it? If so, is this application satisfactory? Is it already possible to draw some statistics, particularly as regards recidivism, the different categories of prisoners, their personal profiles, their school levels? Does this already allow you to draw some concrete lessons from the various projects and proposals that will be on the table in this Parliament in the coming months? Another element was highlighted during the hearings in connection with a proposal by Mr Brotcorne. This is a strong appeal from the actors on the ground to reform the procedure for granting leave and prison leave. It is an exclusive jurisdiction of the administration, but many are astonished at the difficulty for inmates to be able to benefit from such measures while leave or leave, which is a mandatory first step in the preparation of a rehabilitation plan and parole, is of interest. We can see that there are blockages. Minister, what is your view on this? As far as the organisation of social defence is concerned, I have had the opportunity to visit the establishments in Paifve and Ghent. I know you're attached to this part of caring for inmates in our country. We share these concerns. A question remains to date as to the fate of the Paifve social defence institution. Will it be dependent on FPS Justice, FPS Health or both? Will it ultimately be entrusted to the management of the private sector? Many questions still arise in this regard. I hope that we will be able to obtain more precise information today. The law of principles must play an important role in prison policy. You have referred to the fact that you wish to take stock of its current situation before possible reform. We know very well that several elements have not entered into force. Unfortunately, it is a law that begins to date. We may be surprised that several aspects of the Convention have not entered into force. You want to make an evaluation. Have you ever started? I guess so. And in relation to this one, what is your feeling and what line are you going to direct yourself to? What deadline have you given for the full, partial, renovated, amended or adapted entry into force of this law of principles? As I said in the preamble to my intervention, the planning of detention is necessary. An inmate must be able to benefit from a wide range of tools to amend his behaviour and to ensure that, when released, he understood the value of the sentence and no longer represents a danger or a threat to society. The detention plan must not begin at the end of the prison period. For meeting with several actors on the ground, we learned that, for lack of time, lack of resources, this work comes only when they realize that the person may soon be in a position to get out. It is very important to be able to start this work right away. In order for this detention plan to bear fruit, account must also be taken of the transfer between prisons. Several detainees have told us that when they begin training in one prison and are moved to another prison, the training plan faces real difficulties. They feel that this is not sufficiently taken into account in the training they are taking in the course of their journey. They want to go out with training or luggage a little stronger than when they came home. Prison work also has positive effects. There are, however, two practical difficulties, but difficult to deal with for you. First, prison work is sometimes in conflict with the desire to receive training. He who works in prison receives a small fee. For a person undergoing training, this is not the case. Then this comes into direct competition with the adapted work. One should not be carried out at the expense of the other. It is very difficult to find a balance between the two, especially since there are different levels of power in the face of these two realities. Do you have any contacts with the Regions in particular to ensure that one does not take precedence over the other? Training and learning should also be promoted. This morning, the radio told us that training is currently being provided in the French Community on the approach to citizenship. It is apparent that the various reforms of the State pose a problem in terms of the coherence of prison policy as a whole, since the Communities take over in certain areas. Are your contacts with the Communities monitored and nurtured with a view to achieving greater coherence between the different levels of power involved in prison matters? Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on an establishment like Marneffe, which is semi-open, such as Marche and some of the more traditional ones I would call. Staff training is often emphasized by trade unions. What is your reflection on this? Are you considering further measures in the area of staff training? I have already questioned you twice, you probably didn't find my idea very good but I insist again. Several guards have told us that it is very complicated for them, when they have the responsibility of a wing, to search the cells in this wing. There may be pressure from inmates. This can be complicated and lead to a breakdown in the bond of trust that is gradually established between the inmate and the guard. True, life is not simple for each other. Would it not be interesting to think about the value of a particular cell search team? This would allow for a search free of any pressure from the detainees. With regard to telephony, several views were expressed by both guards and prison directors. Phones run in jail. What is your assessment of this issue? Is it appropriate or not to think about it? For the time being, it is forbidden, but could it be considered that some prisoners may have a cell phone in their cell, on the understanding that this is already the case for some of them? As the greatest caïds who enter prison for the first time often say, they do not lead wide! The one who enters prison for the first time, is experiencing a difficult passage. Should we not have a very focused, very strong action to grasp this moment, when the person, locked up for the first time, finds himself in a particular psychological situation? Should we not increase attention and, above all, put in place a specific dynamic to seize this psychological moment in some people and thus allow them to have a different path in prison? Finally, you will allow me to read in extenso a quote from Robert Badinter: "If the criminal or the offender goes out of prison as he has entered or even more dangerous, imprisonment is no longer a defence of society but a threat to society."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u10	To be honest, Minister, I have come here with the idea that we would hear a concrete elaboration of your policy paper. I also thought your master plan III would be largely explained this afternoon, quot non. In any case, you mentioned a number of things that should be included in the master plan III. I would like to highlight two elements which we absolutely welcome. You want to pay attention to the whole process, including the reintegration of the prisoner afterwards, and to the interned, together with the care pathway, in cooperation with the Communities. We therefore continue to look forward with great anticipation to the master plan III. I shall now confine myself to a few specific questions on matters that have perhaps already been raised. I will try to limit myself to what has not been said, which will not be evident. My first point concerns the lack of prisons. Mr Van Hecke has already pointed this out. What about the prison in Limburg? Given the high unemployment due to the closure of Ford Genk, building a prison was one of the slopes of the team that was active there. How are the plans coming along? Are they completely out of the way? I did not know that this was also the case for Ostend, Mr Van Hecke, but at least I would like to know what the plans are for Limburg. You also referred to the detention homes, Minister. I do not think that the pilot projects on the subject have yet been launched. If so, what is the state of play? Are they in cooperation with the Communities? When are you planning the final assessment of the pilot projects and, if necessary, the further development of detention homes? As far as PPP structures are concerned, we fear that all new prisons will be started under PPP structures. I have experienced this very closely with the FPC in Ghent, first as ships and then in Parliament. There is a great deal of criticism, including from the Court of Auditors, especially about the real cost that cannot be calculated. It is also feared that the budgets will be insufficient, as was the case with the FPC in Ghent. What is your opinion on the PPP constructions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u11	Does it intend to work with PPP constructions for all future prisons or FPCs, given the criticism of the Court of Auditors? Several fellow Members have asked about the state of play for Haren's prison. The question of whether we still need a prison of this size remains topical. In fact, it is something from the past that this government wants to continue with. What's the status of the prison plans? I now come to the FPC in Antwerp, to which other Members have already referred. The first experience, in Ghent, is partly positive, partly negative. Will there be a different way of working in Antwerp? The big problem in Ghent was that the FPC was built before they knew how to accommodate the internees. As a result, there are too small kitchens and no exits to the courtyard. Will these deficiencies be addressed in the FPC in Antwerp or will the same mistakes be made again, not by looking at the care, but above all at the prison itself, and only after that at the care? What has not yet been fully addressed in this debate is the shortage of staff in prisons. On many occasions there is talk of a deficit of more than 10%. Can you confirm that? Mr Van Hecke pointed out that some new construction prisons could not be opened immediately because the staff were not present in sufficient numbers, such as in Beveren and Leuze. They had to wait. The figures of the Directorate-General of the Penitentiary Institutions would show that there is a deficit of 500 FTEs. Can you confirm that? Is that right? If so, how could one solve the problem? There were also strikes in the prisons. One of the problems is the prison staff's pension. There are sighs. There have been conversations. There would be an adjustment to the Royal Decree on leave prior to retirement. It would have been approved in the negotiations, but the publication of the Royal Decree is not yet available to me. Can you give me an update on this file? My fellow Members have also raised questions about minimum services. There is also a lack of clarity. There would have been an evaluation of Protocol No. 351, which would have been dealt with this summer. However, the reports we receive on this matter are not clear. The agreement would also not be fully concluded. What exactly has been decided? Could you give us a little more explanation? With regard to radicalisation in prisons, staff need better guidance and training in this area. How's that going? Will the question be answered? What is the occupation of the two separate blocks that would be provided for people who have returned from Syria or possibly for radicalised people? Are those blocks there yet? Will the people who have to do the guidance there receive special training? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? Do you have an overall overview of the savings made during the Michael administration in the various penitentiary institutions? If you don't have it, I'll put in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you two questions about Haren's prison, which seems to be the main subject of today's discussion. Mr Minister, in November I asked your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr Jambon, who informed me that a second licence application would be submitted following a positive consultation with the City of Brussels. Can you confirm that? If so, what is the time frame for this procedure? In addition, there was a discussion of the reception on the site of a justice building with a view to avoiding, inter alia, the transfer of detainees and the related costs. Is this option still relevant? If so, can you give us some details about this? Finally, what is your vision for the Saint-Gilles and Forest sites? What are your priorities for these buildings? Are there any avenues already under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had hoped to be able to present Masterplan III more quickly. However, I have never suggested, Mrs. Temmerman, Mr. Brotcorne, that this masterplan would be ready for discussion, as you requested, in June or September. The discussion of the plan has therefore been postponed several times. The question now arises as to the state of Masterplan III? Indeed, the answer to this question is more interesting than a discussion of the procedure. This masterplan has been the subject of several discussions in Kern. I do not believe that I have hidden this fact in response to parliamentary questions. In addition, as regards the two additional prisons, the two locations that have been retained (one in Wallonia, one in Flanders) have already been mentioned in the framework of the Justice Plan of March. I have reassured the Limburgers and the Vervietos several times. I never hid anything. I say everything that is possible to say. As far as the remaining imperfections are concerned, let us say that they concern the location of an additional prison in Wallonia. We're going to make this Masterplan III coincide with a Masterplan "Internment" which will not come from the work of Mr Jambon and myself but will also involve Mrs De Block. In this context, we plan an additional institution for internees in Flanders and another in Wallonia. These will be large institutions whose location is not yet known. As far as the long stay is concerned, you know we've moved forward. Bierbeek and Les Marronniers have been announced. The second is already open, the first will be open soon, in April. Another facility will be reserved for women, where the numerous women interned in Bruges will find their place. There will probably still be a specific long stay for disabled people. If the political parties of the coalition have agreed on the concrete locations of certain institutions, the two plans will have to be fully presented to the Finance Inspectorate. We must indeed include the funding that many of you have mentioned. For everyone, it is quite clear that the different formulas have their advantages and disadvantages. For the moment, for example, Antwerp's FPC receives fairly conventional funding and the Régie carries out the work itself, with a very good result. I visited the building site last Thursday and it's progressing very well. But it is obvious that the Régie is not able to address both three or four prisons and two internment institutes. We don't know how to do that. On the other hand, it is obvious that, although PPS construction is generally more expensive to maintain, due to the services rendered constantly for 25 years, it obviously has its advantages. Those who visit the Bruges settlement and learn that the buildings were built in 1990 will find it difficult to believe. Those of you who visit Lantin prison and learn that it was built in 1979 will find it difficult to understand, as the interview leaves something to be desired. It may also be due to construction. I don't know. Both formulas have their advantages. It is clear that the reasoning will not only be financial but will also take into account feasibility. What can be done in such a short time? Don't worry! This Masterplan III and this Masterplan "Internment" will take place. My first priority, which I will return to later, is obviously the beginning of the work of Termonde and Haren. Let us start with what has already been agreed. I am also thinking of the final planning of the work of the Antwerp prison for which discussions are dragging. In our country, long-term work has become extremely complicated. Those who already have a prison in their city or in their commune, Mr. Brotcorne, know something about it. It's a long-term job. I can't help it. We're doing our best to move forward. As far as maximum capacity is concerned, our policy is not aimed at building more. Not at all! It is a question of replacing capacities that have become obsolete due to poor maintenance or the fact that the initial construction will not last despite renovations, such as the Lantin tower. These buildings will be replaced. In Masterplan III, we have a capacity of about 10,000 places. Mr Van Hecke, personally, I would not find it regrettable that there is an overcapacity. If we get to 8,000 more places as in the Netherlands, we could eventually close prisons. But you have no fear at this level because many prisons are very old. The new buildings will serve. The Netherlands, on the other hand, has a fairly large overcapacity. I dream of it. I confess and do not withdraw anything from what I said in the Justice Plan in this regard. This policy continues to be pursued in a consistent manner, without withdrawing anything. From time to time, Mrs Özen, you complain because you want to see, simultaneously on the table, the "pots-porri" I, II, III and IV. That is not possible, unfortunately! You are telling me that it is not possible to vote this week, that we must do so in three months' time; nothing goes any further! Read more about the Justice Plan. Everything I promised, we've done so far. I don't see how late we are. I promised you that I would postpone the entry into force of the two-month period of preventive detention until 1 July, precisely to take measures in this area, and that is what I will do in "pot-pourri IV". How will we reduce the population and overcrowding in our prisons? I repeat what I have said several times. It will be a policy in which we try to combine many different elements. We are systematically building new internment settings at a high pace. That results in a discharge. I will come back later to the duration of an internment regime, which you have asked questions about. A lot of internees don't stay in prison. Mrs De Block and I agree that we should be able to transfer as many interned people as possible to ordinary psychiatric facilities. It is not intended to house them all in specific forensic psychiatric centers or FPCs. At the moment, there are a thousand interned in classical psychiatric institutions. The implementation of the new law on the internment of persons, which was adopted in 2014, is coming up. Next week we start with the performance of the execution design. There is no delay in that regard. We have made famous progress on the repatriation of convicted persons. In the potpourri II Act, we have proposed that persons without a residence permit should be transferred to a closed centre for their repatriation for six months instead of two or four months before their release. In the past year, 1 400 people have been repatriated in this way. We will continue that policy. As far as provisional detention is concerned, I have proposed a number of measures in the Justice Plan, which will take shape in the potpourri IV draft, as I promised. We will see if we can reach a political agreement on this. At least I believe in that. A carrot-and-stick approach is needed. Apparently, 28% of the provisionally attached persons have committed relatively minor and non-hazardous drug and or theft-related crimes. They shouldn't stay in remand. They can also be tried very quickly. The intention is to switch to that method. The autonomous penalties shall apply from 1 May. We have made every effort to do so as quickly as possible, but the Communities have asked for a delay. Such penalties will also lead to a reduction in provisional detention. The immediate detention in absentia, which I referred to earlier, may perhaps be reduced, because it appears that 10% of the prisoners who have been convicted in absentia have been provisionally detained for often minor crimes, for which they will receive a much lighter sentence a few months later. That's awesome. Many of you will ask what about electronic surveillance. We are in the process of discussing electronic surveillance as constructively as possible in the context of the Justice Houses Inter-Ministerial Conference. The Communities, like the federal government, do not have any money. So it is not the easiest dialogue. However, we are making progress in this area. We will certainly stick to our position. After all, I am convinced that this is an important element in our penitentiary policy. These five to six measures, together with the speedier conduct of judicial investigations, should help to reduce the number of detainees. What have we done over the past few months? The Guilty pleasure will soon be confirmed in the potpourri II Act. We have the opportunity, under the potpourri II law, to extend the mini-instruction to include, for example, the search, which also leads to a reduction in the judicial investigation. There will be fewer assist cases, which, normally, should also shorten cases in the area of judicial investigation. We are also in discussion with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the College of Attorneys General to ask for the division of the investigation in complex investigations, for example by trying criminals who are merely performers, earlier and separately and not together with the main culprits. As part of the global reform of criminal law, we are investigating the crimes with an evaluation tool for their criminality. In this way we hope to be able to remove a number of elements from criminal law. At the moment this is the one size fits all solution: if a sanction is sought, it is a criminal sanction. Well, that's what it's gonna have to do. We all know that criminal law is being fiercely questioned. I really mean to take measures that could reduce the prison population. Some of you have asked about the state of affairs concerning Tilburg. On December 31, the rental of cells in Tilburg was definitely done. In the government's notification of the one-year renewal of the contract, I was asked to submit a text containing a relocation plan for the detainees in Tilburg. That plan is in preparation and will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. The plan will provide for a gradual spread of the convicts across prisons from July 2016 to December 2016 in proportion to 50 to 100 inmates per month. After all, there are still 500 prisoners staying in Tilburg. Ladies and gentlemen, that also means that I am serious about reducing the number of prisoners. After all, you understand that this reduction is necessary in order to be able to accommodate the prisoners of Tilburg. Why should I not come up with provisional detention measures when the government agreement states that I should stop the rent of prison cells in Tilburg by the end of 2016? It's a good thing to have an emergency. That emergency law breaks, I would not dare say as Minister of Justice. I referred to the external legal situation in my introduction. In the short term, I would like to present proposals to the actors in the field and the academics. The intention is to produce concrete texts on the execution of penalties before the summer. We do not do that in the context of the potpourri IV draft. We're coming up with a new execution design. I've promised you that for some time. The Prison Cloud is fully implemented and operational in Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut prisons. The necessary settlements are made to soon install Prison Cloud also in the Marche-en-Famenne prison. At the moment people are already working with consultation online. Prisoners can consult their criminal records in full from prison, provided that it has been the subject of JustScan in the relevant investigation courts. I've been able to determine that with my own eyes. The cabling project is still ongoing. In the coming weeks, the works should start in the prisons of Lantin, Nivelles, Bruges and Turnhout. In 2016 the files will be submitted for the prisons in Mechelen, Antwerp, Root, Leuven, Dendermonde, Ypres, Oudenaarde, Gent, Jamioulx, Tournai, Ittre, Andennes, Aarlen and Dinant. A complete cabling of all devices provides each cell with a specific telephone connection. Mr President, to answer your question about the sweating of cells and the use of gsm, I agree with you. I believe that a team other than the prison officers who monitor the corridor in question should take care of it. The use of gsm in cells is not a good thing, contrary to what some think. The cell phone should be put in place at the end of the day. We're working on it. Then I come to the state of play on the deradicalisation wings in Hasselt and Ittre. I have answered many questions about this in recent weeks. Those two wings are ready to go. Most of the training has taken place. Terror prisoners are already in both prisons, but centralisation has not yet taken place. The influx will be prepared. You will be able to question me again shortly, and at that moment I will tell you the very latest state of affairs. I have visited both prisons for this purpose, both Ittre and Hasselt, and I have noted with the staff and management that there is a great willingness to take on this responsibility. As far as the state of the social dialogue, protocol 351 and the minimum service are concerned, you know that I have been negotiating with my administration, my firm and the unions since the beginning of 2014 on seven different points. We have a provisional agreement on six of them and a final agreement on one subject, namely pre-pension leave. Mr Bacquelaine, Mrs De Block and I signed the royal decree. It is currently subject to formal approval by Mrs Wilmès and Mr Vandeput for the Budget and the Civil Service. It is still up to the King to sign this order. As far as the minimum or guaranteed service is concerned, as I have already said on several occasions, we are in social mediation for the FOD WASO. We are waiting for bilaterals in early February. As soon as these have taken place, I hope that we will be able to close the overall agreement on the seven points with which we started a year ago. I must tell you that the social peace last year was quite broad. We haven't had too many strikes, and I'm glad. The consultation has always been constructive and I do not despair of reaching a conclusion for the minimum service. I know, Mr Brotcorne, that for the police, during periods of strike, things can from time to time be very complicated and I deeply regret the problems that took place in Mons during the Christmas holidays. These were painful for everyone: for the management, for the agents who wanted to work and for the police. To answer a question from one of you, in the formal sense, there was no minimum service even during the strikes in Forest. The staff was replaced by the police, who, in collaboration with management and the few officers present, were able to arrange occasional access to showers and telephones. Access to health care has been provided by the prison medical service. Meals were distributed with the help of Emergency Preparedness. I am currently negotiating with the unions on the guaranteed service, with the aim of no longer having to call on other services, as I was telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u14	On this point, it seems to me that you have read and learned that security personnel could be assigned to replace guards in the event of a strike. Would that be part of the overall agreement on the six or seven points? Was it an idea that is not being pursued? Would they integrate the federal police or would they be FPS Justice officers? Do you have any idea how they are used in this particular case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u15	This special corps is the subject of Mr. Jambon's Police Plan. He proposed the creation of a special monitoring body, which would be responsible, inter alia, for the supervision, transport of prisoners and judicial buildings on that occasion, as well as for many other tasks which, for the time being, were entrusted to the normal police. An important part of this body would consist of the security corps that currently exists within the Department of Justice, but also of people who, for the time being, are part of the Defence. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of specifically assigning the security corps to the minimum service in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u16	Would he stay with SPF Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u17	Are there any questions or comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I do not think I have received an answer to two questions. Firstly, how many places in prisons cannot be put into service due to a lack of staff? Secondly, how is the cost of EUR 50 000 per person per year compiled, housing, staff, operating costs, and are there any differences between prisons in terms of this cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u19	You're right once and wrong once. I did indeed answer the second question, namely that I do not have an answer to it, but that you can ask me again and again and then I will try to give a cost calculation per prison. However, I do not know whether we will be able to do so very quickly, so I would ask you to ask me to do so in writing and to draw my ear regularly. In answer to your other question, in Leuze the last wing, good for 80 places, will also be put into use on 1 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I have two small questions: you might have answered them when I was away from another committee. Is the prison in Limburg still in the plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u21	Mrs Temmerman, I even spoke to you at the time I replied and suddenly realized that there is a Limburg tongue trap in your voice, although I did not know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u22	It's a gentish tongue, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u23	I meant well, I love to hear Limburgers and Gentenaars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u24	Then I have a question about radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u25	I also replied to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u26	Then I shall read it in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u27	Minister, I may have misrepresented myself in my question about the first incarceration. Of course, the psychological shock must be taken into account, but consideration should be given to strengthening the accompaniment. The aim is to take advantage of this shock in order to increase the inmate's awareness. Rather, it was the meaning of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u28	I'll try to answer it. When I visit a prison, I ask how short-term prisoners and those in pre-trial detention are placed. In general, they are mixed with the other prisoners. It does not seem to me very realistic to ask for special attention for short sentences. For example, if you have committed a recidivism with respect to driving, which is a serious offence, you will spend eight days in a cell, but little time will be spent on you. You'll be able to talk to my staff later. My reply concerned long-term prisoners. That is why I have always wanted the sentences to be carried out from one year on. In fact, brief detentions require a highly involved staff to produce a probative effect. Otherwise, that is the negative effect that Mrs Özen was talking about. At first glance, I don't think that's possible. Nor should we forget that 90% of the reintegration tasks are now carried out by the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic324x.u29	Minister, thank you.
