ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the unions promised you a difficult social spring. We are at the dawn of the summer, but in the pure sense as in the figurative sense, the sun does not shine on Belgium and, at least, on Wallonia. And we are predicted to see a fall just as wretched. Without wanting to play my Luc Trullemans in this Chamber, let me tell you that, in my opinion, you must be much firmer. There is an urgent need for legislation in this area. Indeed, after giving full opportunity to negotiations in the area of justice, it can be seen that disputes persist, despite acceptable proposals. We also note that social actors such as certain teachers, who are totally disregarding the future of our youth, in the midst of exams, join the grunt movement. How can we explain that teachers in Mons are on strike and not teachers in Liège? This situation is totally unacceptable. In addition, teachers' demands relate to a measure that was adopted last year. We find that the garbagemen are also on track. In addition, a few days ago, we had to deplore the fact that some of the TEC agents had caused serious obstacles to labour law. As for the railway workers, although an agreement had been reached, they did not hesitate to file, a few hours later, a further notice of strike. I think, Mr Minister, that today, the right to strike, which the People's Party of course defends, is no longer at all the right to strike as reflected in international legislation, namely to express its dissatisfaction with measures that directly affect its professional sphere. We are, and are not afraid to say so, in a totalitarian right to strike. The employees use physical or moral violence to prevent other workers from exercising their right to work. I repeat, this is unacceptable. My question is simple, minister. When are you going to consider the bills or when are you going to introduce a bill to counter these union actions that no longer have the consent of the majority of affiliates? We must be able to enforce the right to work for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carcaci, I am a little surprised by your question. Why? It was decided to hold hearings in House committees to discuss the right to strike, the right to work, etc. We have obviously accepted and respected the discussion in Parliament. I understand the discussion is not yet over. I think it is wise to wait for the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u4	Minister, thank you. It is true that expert hearings are currently being held in committees, but bills have been tabled in a non-suspecto tempore, even though we were not yet in the current situation. It is important to put on the turbo so that decisions can be made as quickly as possible. Of course, we listen to the experts, but the decisions are up to the government. In this case, it is important not to waste too much time and move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u5	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, week after week, we are asking the Prime Minister about the space he leaves for negotiations with the social partners, particularly in the light of a number of conflicts, and especially in the case of prisons which retain an exceptional dimension. And week after week, the Prime Minister says he wants to negotiate. We have just had the proof, through his brutal statement, that he closed any possibility of negotiation with the unions representative of the prison officers in the south of the country, that in reality he never really thought about leaving a room for negotiation. I'm not saying that's why he's not here this afternoon. I know that he is held by other obligations, but I see that today it is you who must bear the consequences of the brutal choice of the Prime Minister. You cannot, with this government, continue to say that there is a negotiating space and then close the door. It is a total incoherence that is now revealed in the open. Minister Geens claims he wants to go through with the negotiations. But the Prime Minister closed the door. What is the real space you leave for negotiation? Does it still make sense? Is there still a willingness on the part of this country and the government to take into account the expectations of trade unions when they are representative in the south of the country? Or does it have to be understood that the voice of Francophones in social matters is permanently extinguished by this government because, gradually, the confederal logic of social relations is taking precedence under the influence of a majority partner of your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maingain, I shall be very brief for the second time, because it is very simple: four of the six unions involved in the discussions have accepted the last proposals from the government. Four out of six! Returning to this agreement would be unfair to the unions that accepted it and to which the government has committed itself. Mr Maingain, the government is calling on the two unions that have rejected his proposal for rationality. We invite them to look at what's on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u7	Mr Minister, your answer confirms your logic: the confederalism of negotiations with representatives of the social partners. There are three unions; there are not six! You've taken language wings. If you have this logic, then it's the logic of the double majority. If you want that, then that's the logic in each linguistic group and you don't have the majority in the Francophone linguistic group, until you have the agreement of the majority and the Francophone unions. You will therefore have to learn to negotiate with a majority in each language group. This may be what some people want, but then we have to go to the end and not impose a unilateral will with only a minority in a linguistic group!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u8	Mr Minister, today you were kind of whistled out by your colleague, Mr. Van Overtveldt, about the speculation tax. And I understand you, because I know that for the CD&V, this speculation tax is very important. It allowed you to sell the tax shift and even the whole government policy to the unions, even if it didn't work very well. Today, we even hear Mr. Beke and Mr. Van Rompuy teach the CSC by saying: "We have obtained for you the tax on speculation, so close it, now!" This is very important for the CD&V, although it must be recognized that now this tax on speculation is totally symbolic. To give you only one figure, on the Brussels Stock Exchange, 100 billion euros are traded each year. This speculative tax was to raise 34 million euros. For 100 billion, 34 million euros! So this is only about a small part of the capital gains, to the point that Marc Leemans of the CSC called it not a speculaastaks, but speculaastaks: a speculaos tax. Speculoos, you know, when you soak it in the coffee, there's nothing left. That's a good comparison. And today, your colleague Mr. Van Overtveldt and the N-VA want to remove this symbolic tax. It can be seen that this did not even bring in the 34 million planned. It didn't pay anything, and now it pays less than nothing. So he wants to delete it. Apparently, we understand, you don't agree. Minister, I have two questions. We're removing your symbol. You're kind of naked. Are you going to defend this speculoos tax? You have read today the front page of the Stand, which I am transmitting to you, Minister. It shows that the richest percent of the population owns 50% of the stock on the stock exchange. Will this government, and your party, minister, finally tax the real rich in this country, the richest percent, those who own these 50% shares?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u9	Mr President, I must confess that I am a little nervous, because the Lommel children's council is watching today. It might make me a little more lenient, Minister, for the government. Fate strikes for you, Minister. We have debated in Parliament on a number of occasions the issue of fairer taxation. At that time, your group stated on a regular basis that it wants to make more contributions than it does today. The CD&V Group has received our full support for this. Now the finance minister from New York says that the proceeds from the speculation tax are undersized. You will now have to defend it here, as a CD&V minister, I think. It is, of course, about much more than the speculative tax, Minister. When we debated a fair tax shift, the government always talked about a number of things. One, the diamond tax, which doesn't pay today, because it doesn't even exist yet. Two, the caiman tax. In the meantime, all tax experts agree that the back doors are the same size as a garage gate. The revenue from this will therefore be drastically less than what the government has entered in the budget. Now the Minister of Finance himself says that the speculative tax does not pay anything. In other words, the government has always said that it is making the assets contribute, but there is nothing left of it today, nothing at all. Minister, do you agree, on behalf of the government and as a CD&V Minister, with Minister Van Overtveldt's analysis that speculation tax is virtually zero today and that there should be a different tax? I would have liked to have heard from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u10	Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an interesting debate on inequality is currently taking place in the Flemish media. There are groups in this hemisphere, for example Mr Dewael's group, who think that inequality is a good thing. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats clearly disagrees with this. Today I read that 25% of the Flemings have to knock on their door to family or friends at the end of the month to make ends meet. So we have to see together that there is still a major problem in this area. That is why fiscal justice is so important, Mr Vice Prime Minister. Let's not say it can't be, there's no money or it's hard. Since this year, the 10% most wealthy in this country have more than EUR 1 000 billion of capital. However, there is someone who sabotages and makes things difficult. That person is not some minister, as you just called him on the VRT news. That saboteur, that's the finance minister, Johan Van Overtveldt. That is normally the man who should ensure fair taxes and tax regimes that work and are not constantly challenged. That man sabotages tax justice, even from New York. That also means that your position is not clear, Mr Peeters, and the position of the government is not clear. Mrs Crevits would say: Mr Peeters, you are a flipflop. What is it now? What'll it be? On the one hand, the speculative tax was introduced, on the other hand, Mr Van Overtveldt said this week that it is not working. According to him, the speculation tax doesn't work, and maybe he needs to be buried. What is your position? What is the position of the government and the majority? As for the capital gains tax, there were some timid attempts by N-VA excellencies to say that they are not the wealthy party after all. They want to deny that absolutely and perhaps ask for a contribution from the greatest abilities. However, this week Van Overtveldt had a laundry list of excuses not to do so. Mr Peeters, will that capital gains tax be on the agenda? This country is longing for fiscal justice. Please give them that perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u11	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Vanvelthoven for his kindness. I think this is a good sign. Mildness in political life certainly has its rights. I understand, Mr Calvo, that the debate on equality and inequality is an interesting debate. I myself am a great believer of John Rawls with his Theory of Justice. I believe, however, that this debate should be held at another time, given the limited time that has been given to me. Let some things be clear. We have introduced the speculative tax, including to finance the tax shift. This has been an important discussion with important balances. I remember an important social partner saying about speculation tax that this tax meets the need for fairness in taxation. So there are social partners who have explicitly defended the speculative tax and will continue to do so, at least that is what I am assuming. If the speculative tax does not comply with the budgetary revenue that was set aside, if I am not mistaken, it is EUR 34 million for 2016 and we have to look at this. If there are leaks or avoidances in the area of that speculative tax, then we need to discuss it. Mr Van Hees, you are right to say that the Minister of Finance will first see that speculation tax can be avoided through all kinds of non-taxable products. We need to look at these avoidances and ensure that the expected yield is realised. This revenue is intended to finance the tax shift, including a reduction in wage costs. So I think we will look at this at the right time, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance. You have well understood that this was part of the tax shift for us, and it will continue to be. We are looking forward to the proposals when adjustments are needed, especially as regards the sealing of leaks. With regard to the major debate on capital gains tax and inequality, I assume that everyone in this hemisphere is in favour of fair taxation. I haven't met anyone who says they're not in favour of fair taxation. That's not the point. The point is how we actually convert that. This is, of course, an element which can by definition be addressed in the context of budgetary control or budgetisation. You know that we will have to ignore the budgetary format of 2017. This starts in July and should be completed in September. We in the government will look at how we do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u12	Mr. Minister, I'm surprised! You tell us that everyone is for fair taxation. I do not understand how a government that pursues a policy that is all in favour of the richest can be for fair taxation. In fact, just taxation means paying the rich. And the rich, minister, that's the richest percent, about which I gave you an article. Do you know how much this percentage has in Belgium, how much their total wealth is? To 420 billion euros. We know that the percentage of the richest has that amount. Don't you think there's a way to get some money from these people, rather than always getting it from the workers, the unemployed and the pensioners? That would be a real tax justice! Minister, you are lucky because the PTB has introduced a bill for fairer taxation. I can send it to you if you want. This is called the millionaire tax and targets precisely the richest percent. It is not a dual income tax, nor a tax on wealth income, or a pseudo-tax on speculation, which is worth just 34 million euros. No, it's a tax that can really make the richest thumb pay. That's the real stake! This will lead to a policy other than the anti-social austerity policy that this government has chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u13	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately my generosity has resulted in your reply being meaningless. You are talking about fiscal justice, as this government often does. If you go among the people on the streets, you will know that the agenda of justice is exactly the point where this government is failing. If we look today at the figures confirmed by Minister Van Overtveldt this week, it appears that in all areas where capital should contribute extra, revenue is either zero or much lower. Mr Van Rompuy has also made statements on this subject this week. He's right. He says that the revenue is always lower than what Minister Van Overtveldt has proposed. If Mr Van Rompuy says that there really is a Van Overtveldt problem, then I would add that there is a real problem for our society with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I agree that politics craves a certain kindness and a desire for cooperation. Our group is ready to participate in an operation on fiscal justice. However, I note today that you are too lenient and too soft for your N-VA colleagues in this majority and that in this hemisphere you are not sending a clear signal to Minister Van Overtveld, who from New York is torpedoing and sabotaging tax justice. I regret that. Secondly, you say that everyone in this hemisphere is in favour of fiscal justice. Look at the budgetary adjustment we are discussing. There's hardly any tax justice in that. On the contrary, budgetary adjustment looks more at people who are struggling, at people who are working than at those greatest abilities. Thirdly, the reason why we are asking you today, Mr Vice-President, to have your back on this capital gain tax and now to say that it really needs to be done is because we are very concerned that this government will return to the middle class. One can perfectly draw up a budget that saves the middle class. If one really wants to do so, then one makes a capital gain tax that saves the middle class. Johan Van Overtveldt should do that, instead of making that far away operation even more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u15	Minister, I would like to talk to you about the question of which religious symbols can be used in which workplace. As far as the public authorities are concerned, I would like to make the distinction clear: things seem clear and clear, at least as far as my group is concerned. I believe that government officials who come into contact with the public should be neutral. They must radiate neutrality. For me and for my group, the principle of separation of faith and state applies here. As far as private companies are concerned, things may be different. I believe that private companies should not be neutral, but if they want to be neutral, that should be possible. In other words, it depends a little on the arrangements made in the company itself. The European Court of Justice is dealing with this matter, Minister. I found the opinion of the Advocate General very remarkable. It is in line with the position that I am inclined to adopt, namely the imposition of, among other things, a headscarf ban during working hours, is acceptable if this is the result of an agreement in the company. That is a very reasonable position. What worries me a little is that Belgium has sent a lawyer to the Court to defend the opposite view, namely that religious regulations could take precedence over the company's labour regulations. Could you give me some insight into the course of such a procedure? How is such a lawyer appointed? What kind of assignment is such a lawyer charged with? What do you think, because you are the politically responsible one, and what does the government think of the opinion adopted by the Advocate General of the European Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u16	Mr Minister, the matter that has just been referred to has indeed caused quite a stir for obvious reasons. It is a politically very sensitive matter. The opinion given by the Advocate General, to which the previous speaker referred, is a particularly interesting and, in our opinion, highly commendable opinion, which distinguishes between, on the one hand, the undisputed freedom of religion, which is constitutionally anchored and which no one calls into question, and, on the other hand, the scope to express his belief in certain circumstances in any way. Moreover, this is a matter of neutrality, and that goes beyond merely assessing a religion. It also concerns philosophical, political and ideological beliefs, as in the case of the company in question. In our view, this makes the accusation of discrimination completely meaningless. It is therefore surprising that we read in the newspapers that Belgium has sent a lawyer to take a different view. I assume that I would like to know immediately whether this is the case or not that everything has gone according to the procedure in force. The FOD WASO has taken the initiative. Weirdly enough, Unia's position has been followed. Unia is known in the case as defender of the most extremist view. By the way, Unia is also involved, as it accompanies the lady who has gone to court in the matter. If it is already a matter of neutrality, it is difficult to say that Unia has a neutral position on the matter. That is what we are talking about. A statement of reasons shall mean that there is a dispute on the matter, that there are opinions on the matter. Mr Minister, if everything has gone according to the rules of current art, I would like to hear from you as the minister and Deputy Prime Minister involved, who is helping to shape government policy, whether we urgently need to ensure that such socially sensitive issues are not dealt with administratively, but are indeed the subject of political decision-making, so that what we are putting forward internationally on behalf of Belgium is also democratically legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with the questions because the announcement has already been tweeted and written. There was always one name that came back to it: it is Minister Peeters, who has done something that some people believe is unacceptable. That is why, Mr Dewael, it is good that I should be very clear about the procedure and that we, Mr De Roover, should see if we can learn from it. Firstly, it is a case currently pending before the Court of Cassation. The Court of Cassation referred a kind of question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling in connection with a very specific case of head-clothing. How does the procedure work when a question for a preliminary ruling is referred to the Court? The Foreign Affairs Office receives all preliminary rulings from the Court of Justice and forwards them to the competent administrations via the Euro-coordinators. This procedure has so far been fully administratively completed. In this specific case, the FPS Foreign Affairs asked the administration of the competent FPS, in particular the administration of the Department of Work, the FPS WASO. Neither the ministers nor the Cabinets are involved in this administrative process. The Court of Justice will give its ruling as soon as possible. I will come back to the content in a moment, but apart from the content, I would like to mention why there are so many discussions. There are actually two parties represented on behalf of the Belgian government, namely the Belgian State, evidently, and the former Centre for Equal Opportunities, the current Unia, to which Mr De Roover referred. After consultation and on the advice of the administrations, it was decided to ask the lawyer to defend one position and that is the position you referred to. For the sake of clarity, I would like to repeat that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been dealt with in full administratively, without any political validation. I think we should learn from that dossier. When it comes to politically sensitive dossiers, such as the dossier we are discussing now, you are right in saying that there must be political validation. There is no way that a minister should be here explaining and explaining an approach on which the administration has judged in great independence. I therefore believe that we in the federal government should make an agreement as soon as possible that a minister, when politically sensitive matters arise, will also validate the position to be defended. In substance, it is about anti-discrimination and the difference between government and private companies. My colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, is responsible for anti-discrimination and can, in the debate on the substance, tell us what initiatives it can take. In short, we must adapt the procedure and, as far as the matter referred to is concerned, I think it is wise to await and then discuss the Court of Justice's ruling in full independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. First of all, what our lawyer defends on behalf of Belgium, our country, before the European Court, is of course not neutral. Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to know what position, what assignment was given to that lawyer. Mr Minister, this is a dispute which raises the question of what to do in a private enterprise in relation to the wearing of religious symbols. That's not neutral. I do not think it is normal for a government to say that our administration appoints a lawyer, waits for what position it will defend and also takes note of the outcome of that procedure. Excuse me, but I seem to have overestimated your power in this matter. I thought that a government should take a stand in such cases when it comes to a dispute before courts or courts. We are not neutral in this as a government. Secondly, we listened to the words of the Prime Minister after Paris and after the attacks. The Prime Minister said that we absolutely must support our universal values: equality, separation of church and state, freedom of expression. He said that all officials, all magistrates and all ministers pledge allegiance to the Constitution. Everyone was applause at the time. If we are to proclaim these principles here, we must also ensure that they are respected in daily and also in legal practice. So I will not dwell on the position taken by our lawyer in that procedure. I would like to have more text and explanation on that. Finally, I refer to the initiative I took in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. It is high time we clarified values and principles in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u19	You pointed out, Minister, that everything had to go as it should. That means there's really work to be done. I can only support you in this, because what has happened here is basically too crazy for words. The impression was, of course, given here that you have taken a certain position. You're being questioned about something you seem to have no grip on. It goes without saying that here we are bumping into the question of who governs this country. If Unia is constantly and rightly calling on her independence as an institution, then it is of course rather strong that that independent institution can seem to bind us and adopt a position that has not been democratically discussed in any way, let alone legitimised. So to the question of who rules this country, the answer can never be Unia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u21	The middle class... That is, of course, a matter of general conscience! Mr Minister, I hope that you will immediately take initiatives to ensure that this anomaly disappears as quickly as possible in order to use another word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have here a pamphlet from the three united trade unions calling for a strike. There are seven obvious lies in there. I want to talk specifically about three of them. Firstly, it says literally that a typical family with at least EUR 100 per month is declining. I have been a little rude over the last few months: I have asked people I have encountered what is on their paycheck and how much euro they lose every month. No one told me to lose anything. On the contrary, some get 60, 80 or 100 euros net per month. A second lie in the pamphlet is that the social corrections of this government are shameful. Minister, you know that the living wage has risen by 6% in one year. More than that, they say the reforms happen without jobs, jobs, jobs. It's in this pamphlet. I do not know what planet the men and women of the trade unions live on, but the National Bank has said very clearly this week that 140 000 jobs will be added over the next three years. In 2015, 40 000 jobs have already been added. So we are talking about 180,000 people who will eventually get a job. It concerns 180 000 people who are no longer dependent on benefits. And it concerns 180,000 people who will contribute to social security. During the previous government period, Mrs Onkelinx, you were a member of the government at the time, and four thousand jobs were lost. So 4,000 people were out of a job. I wonder where the unions were with their pamphlet then. Minister, it is very important that corrective information is provided. Trade unions have an important role to play in this respect. These days you see the unions a lot and my question is what you will do to give this important information about job creation and purchasing power to the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u23	Mr President, Mr Demir, we naturally respect freedom of expression in this country. That is an important value and we must ensure that it is maintained, but I share your concern when I see that incorrect information is regularly sent out to the world. People sometimes wonder what is going on. If study firms and organisations send figures to the world, it is always disputed that they would be coloured, but here we are talking about the National Bank. The National Bank is still rightly regarded by friend and enemy, by majority and opposition, as an institution that ensures that the figures are very thorough when it comes out with them. If there were any doubts, even from the National Bank, there could be a debate at level. You're right to quote the figures of the National Bank. There's gonna be 140,000 extra jobs. Unemployment drops from 8.5 % in 2015 to 7.8 % in 2018. Over this period, 54 000 jobseekers will be fewer and job creation will take place largely or exclusively in the private sector. There are also 31 000 self-employed in this sector. Those are hard and positive figures. I also hope that the trade unions, especially when they send pamphlets into the world, will not miss the sunlight and that they will provide correct information to their members, their militants and anyone who gets their hands on these leaflets. I already gave that to them. Hitting people or giving false information has no added value. We now have the figures of the National Bank, but I would like to go even further, because the National Bank also gives the reasons for the positive figures and raises wage moderation. I would like to send the congratulations not only to this government, but also to the previous government, which started wage moderation. We continued them. Labour market reforms have been carried out, not only by us, but also by the previous government. So it is a shared success that we must defend together. We must ensure that everyone has correct macroeconomic figures, unless the National Bank is questioned, but that is a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u24	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You also refer to the previous government, but it is thanks to this government, its wage moderation measures and its reforms that the process is not standing still, but moving forward. You confirmed the National Bank's figures again today. These 140 000 jobs are very important, because they increase purchasing power. It is not correct to spread false information, and I want you to ask the unions to stop telling lies during the consultation. Besides, even if the lie is still so fast, the truth will get to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u25	Mr President, Minister, it is of course not the first time we have met on the issue of e-commerce. It's just that we're running out of time. Yesterday there were the good figures from the Market Monitor, which says that in the first quarter of this year 7 million Belgians made three interventions on the Internet, they bought on the internet for an amount of 2.29 billion euros. That's the good news. The Belgian absolutely consumes on the internet. He buys more and he buys more. The pain we have repeatedly faced you with just before Christmas is the question of what this means for Belgian companies. Can they play the market sufficiently? This has everything to do with the ban on night work. The KB you issued offered the prospect of that night work. You replied to my question in April that you had knowledge of two large companies that were negotiating and that we would have the prospect of an initial agreement on night work for a Belgian player, which could therefore stop exporting jobs abroad. Unfortunately, this morning the cry for help came from the sector to make it clear that nothing is happening. According to them, no negotiations have landed in the meantime. There hasn't been any breakthroughs on the premises. We are afraid that your hot turkey from before Christmas is becoming a cold turkey, because your KB remains dead letter. However, we can use the jobs. This government has already created 65 000 jobs. We think that's fantastic. But of course more jobs are needed, especially for low-skilled people. Let a breakthrough in night work for e-commerce bring these jobs at your fingertips. I have the following questions. Do you have any information other than what we have heard this morning? Do you know about companies where they land? We don't know any. So the KB hasn't been executed yet. What do you think is the concrete stumbling block? Finally, what's next? What's the next step? The KB isn't working. You know we have a bill ready. Will you come up with another proposal so that we can get around the impasse?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u26	Mrs Ceysens, we have always agreed that e-commerce must be given every opportunity. We have also always agreed that e-commerce should be given every opportunity in Belgium by making night work possible. We have always agreed that many jobs can be created in e-commerce, especially for low-skilled people. The way in which we would all make this possible and encourage it has been the subject of debate. You referred to the agreement reached with the social partners in the distribution and trade sector on 21 December 2015. I am still convinced that it is better for a sector to close a framework cao and that the social partners should put their shoulder to that rather than change the law. The latter may sound nice, which may be nice, but in practice it will lead to results less quickly. The KB of 18 March 2016 is the implementation of the framework cao that has been established. Where are we now? Everyone now wonders why so few collective agreements are concluded at company level. Some refer directly to a blockage by the unions. We must eliminate any blocking of night work that makes e-commerce impossible. We must offer solutions. However, on the basis of my information, it is not correct that there is a blockage by the trade unions. We must also dare to say that. Since this morning, we've been calling everyone. After all, some people make punitive statements, but if they are asked to dust them, then nothing will come. I am very sorry about that, because I want to discuss it with you, if there are any obstacles or blockages, and I want to make it clear where we want to go. I do not do that with legislative proposals, because that will not be possible as long as the mentioned royal decree applies. However, I am now making an appeal to all those who say that there are blockages. They have to prove that or quit. If there are blockages, as Minister of Work, I will do everything in my power to make it possible to create jobs, including in e-commerce, by making night work possible in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think we have already shown a great deal of patience in this dossier. You know that this is a crucial dossier for us. After all, we believe that not every sector is still capable of effectively creating these kinds of jobs for low-skilled people. They're really here for picking up. We said at Christmas, "The proof of the pudding is in the eating." We feel that the unions do not like this pudding. We are of course charmed by your firm language and your firm performance this afternoon. I wonder what you'll get on the table for the next few days. For us, this file won't be out of the question. We absolutely want a breakthrough in this. We want to see a first result. We want to see a company that manages to carry out night work in e-commerce in Belgium. We have seen a number of examples in the media. I do not have the impression that these people say lightly that they want to get logistics to Belgium, that they have reached an agreement with the employees and management, but that they do not get through the bottleneck to the level of the unions. We cannot fit for that. We will see how it evolves over the next few days. We have a proposal. You have said that you prefer to stick to the royal decree, but at some point someone, including in this House, will have to force a breakthrough. We're ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about a very strong appeal in the press this morning from the administrators of the UCM and sixty officials of professional organisations in this country. They stress the signs of economic recovery, which we can indeed see through the increase in investment, the rise in the employment rate – they quote the figure of 9,700 jobs created in the first quarter – the reduction in wage costs, the safeguarding of purchasing power, a fall in bankruptcies and a growing entrepreneurial dynamism. In order to support this movement and strengthen this recovery, this call calls for some reforms in other areas. For example, the signatories want a reform of labour law, a change in corporate tax, the development of a readable system of point pensions, an improvement in mobility, an adaptation of education to new occupations. This will is well in line with the Government's commitment to implement several economic reforms, which are essential to the sustainability of our social model and which will also ensure that the bill is not deferred to future generations. They must therefore continue. Self-employed and SME managers are asking for this. Mr Minister, in recent days we have seen that the social partners are returning to consultation. It is important that negotiations take place around a table, in a spirit of dialogue, not on the street. Can you tell us more about the status of the discussions? Secondly, some of the ideas suggested in this article fall within the purview of different ministers and other levels of authority. Would it be interesting, Minister, to bring all the actors together to work on all these suggestions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have read the UCM's call for the launch of six projects concerning, inter alia, labour relations, corporate tax, pensions, mobility and state stability. As Minister of Employment, the most important is the bill on work that is feasible and manageable. In this regard, I am trying to relaunch the social dialogue in the Group of Ten. I am currently conducting bilateral contacts to begin social dialogue in a delicate context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u30	Mr Minister, I thank you for your attention to social dialogue and to the millions of self-employed in the country and to entrepreneurs through all the reforms. We see that the government cares about these independents and business leaders. We are far from the recent statements of a Walloon minister-president who compared the social security of the self-employed to the universal allowance!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u31	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, those who are interested in the state of the prisons in Belgium can only ignore entering the prison in Forest, that is to return to the nineteenth century. Anyone who crossed the door of this prison was able to see the inhuman and degrading conditions of detention, the age of the premises, the total lack of hygiene, serious failures in electrical systems and installations. Today, it is the question of the stability of buildings that is at stake, and in doing so, the safety of those who live and work there. Following a report by the Prison Supervisory Commission, the mayor of Forest decided to carry out a risk assessment as a matter of urgency. As I speak to you, the municipal architect, the hygiene services, the Brussels fire department and the social inspectorate assess the situation on the spot. Their conclusions could lead to a partial or total closure of the Forest prison. Added to this is the social conflict, with prison officers on strike for 40 days to demand conditions that enable them to work effectively and guarantee the humane detention of prisoners. The Prime Minister remained deaf to this appeal, he closed the door, preferring to sink into his budgetary objectives and defend the Flemish solution. Indeed, imposing a protocol that had been rejected in the south of the country by 94.7 per cent of those concerned was a dangerous institutional precedent. The government must therefore return to the negotiating table. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you agree with the observations of the Monitoring Commission as to the age of the premises? Do you consider that the Forest prison is still fit to serve, in accordance with the basic security conditions of a place of detention? Is the prison administration prepared to deal with the possible closure of this prison? Are the services of the Régie des Bâtiments able to carry out the urgent work? In short, do you intend to unlock human and financial resources to deal with all these contingencies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Özen, in general terms, the establishment presents problems of widespread unsanitaryness and a state of very advanced degradation in all aspects of construction. I can confirm that. The magnitude of what needs to be done to resolve this situation does not allow for the retention of inmates in the institution. That is why the closure of this facility was planned as soon as the new Haren prison was opened, the construction of which was decided by the current government and also by the previous government. To this end, a private partner was appointed, namely the private consortium Cafasso, which submitted an application for an urban planning permit in December 2013. To date, the town planning permit, like other necessary administrative measures, has not yet been issued by the competent authorities at both local and regional level. The Régie des Bâtiments can only stress the importance of solving the problems encountered in particular on the site of Forest by the provision of new modern infrastructures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u33	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, but I am surprised by your answer. Indeed, you admit that the situation is extremely serious and yet you say that the prison will be closed if you open Haren's prison. But the situation is really urgent. It requires action without waiting for a possible disaster. You need to take urgent steps to ensure the safety of the staff, detainees and those who are visiting the Forest prison, otherwise I believe that your responsibility will be incurred as well as that of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u34	Mr President, Minister, yesterday it became known that the Dutch police forces will be able to pass on the names of jihadists, their families and people from their surroundings to the four main Dutch banks in order to enable them to carry out a thorough analysis of suspicious financial transactions by those involved. This comes at the request of the Financial Intelligence Unit Netherlands, which found last year that at least 2 billion euros are proposed to you, so that the gap in our budget can already be filled by some jihadist means. I support our friends in this initiative, because I believe it is a step forward in the fight against terrorism. Terrorism must be tackled not only politically and politically, but also, and certainly, financially. Mr President, since 1993 we have had a similar institution in Belgium as the Financial Intelligence Unit which is working with the Egmont Group and which will probably provide very competent and interesting analyses. Have you been asked from that angle to carry out the same operation as the one that is now going to happen in the Netherlands? Do you know if there is any interest in us, and I also hope that you will allow our police forces to pass on names of jihadists and people from their surroundings directly to the banks, so that they can make a thorough analysis of the risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Penris, our banks do not have the lists of foreign fighters. That is not the case. However, we are explicitly committed to the financial prohibition of any networks and foreign fighters. How do we do that? For some time now, the OCAD has been passing on the names of foreign fighters to the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, which can then conduct a social and fiscal/financial investigation. The OCAD also passes on the same information to the CFI, to which you yourself referred. The Financial Information Processing Cell can carry out an investigation, within the broad powers conferred on it by the legislator, both in the area of money laundering and in the area of terrorist financing. In a judicial investigation, of course, the financial side is also considered, that is the third element. Finally, measures to freeze foreign fighters' assets may also freeze their bank accounts. So we're on four tracks. So far we have not involved the banks, but nothing is eternal. Tomorrow I will see my colleague, Ard van der Steur, and I will certainly talk to him about the advantages and disadvantages of this. At first sight, however, it seems to me that if we only see four banks from all over the banking landscape, we should not be a great terrorist fighter to seek refuge in a fifth, sixth or seventh bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u36	Mr Jambon, I am partially satisfied with your answer. You are of good will and I am counting on you to carry out what you are announcing here. However, it is not just about four large banks. If tomorrow a jihadist knows he's being followed by ING Nederland, he can go to ING Belgium the day after tomorrow. He has to cross the border, to Ghent or to Antwerp, there open an account and he can do what he was no longer allowed to do in the Netherlands. I therefore hope that you will be as persistent as your Dutch fellow Members. Even if it's only four banks, it's still four banks. I hope you're making what you just announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u37	Mr Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, we are champions of the world! Unfortunately, it's not in a sports discipline, it's in cyber-insecurity. It is an international study that has just declared it, and we share the podium with Tajikistan and Samoa. This is a very exotic podium, which we would have done well! According to a group of experts, who seem serious enough for the foreign press to take over the news (The Guardian in fact its title), we are the worst country in the world in terms of IT security. This news, of course, falls at the worst moment. Our reputation is unscrupulous. It also falls at a time when cybersecurity attacks are daily. We could still observe it yesterday with the Tax-on-Web site. It was also found that the Prime Minister's site had been attacked, as well as that of the Royal Palace, the Senate and the Brussels Parliament. The list is so long that I would far exceed the two minutes that are given to me if I had to list all these attacks. My feeling, Minister, is that, like other security issues, the government is slow to launch some reforms. The budgets and resources devoted to our cyber security are far below what would be necessary. My questions are simple. Don't you think that it would finally be time to devote resources and design a strategy to meet this threat? Do you think that ten people for the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre, plus seven people for CERT, which is our only tool for rapid response to threats and attacks, are sufficient to meet the threat in a country that knows itself to be a target, because of the presence on its territory of NATO, the European Commission, a series of international institutions, decision-making centres at the private level, and also because of the terrorist threat? Do you not think that it is time to allocate our resources, resources and strategy to meet the threat we face?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u38	Mr Dallemagne, the US commercial company active in cybersecurity Rapid7 published on its website last Tuesday the report to which you refer. The purpose of this American company is obviously to demonstrate that some systems on the internet require more security, from a commercial perspective, of course. The Belgian Cybersecurity Centre (CBC) read the report in depth and immediately requested all detailed information from the American company that published it. In the light of this detailed information, the CWB intends to be able to accurately determine what this vulnerability means and where it is located. The CWB will decide on all measures to be taken to eliminate this vulnerability. The figures are important but do not reflect everything. An in-depth analysis will be required to determine the vulnerability and how it can be addressed. The report confirms that cybersecurity must be a priority in our country. The government has created the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, whose aim is to develop our country's cybersecurity policy and coordinate its implementation. What's the status of the CWB? It is currently implementing its strategic plan, the priorities of which are the protection of critical infrastructure and the awareness of the public and businesses on the subject. The government, together with the Prime Minister responsible for cybersecurity, continues to pay close attention and is convinced that these issues need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u39	Minister, the government may be convinced, but it is not very convincing. You didn't announce any numbers, no resources. In the 2016 budget, cybersecurity is allocated a €3 million envelope. The rest is on the federal reserve. We don't know exactly what's going to happen. For the moment, only cosmetic measures are in place. It is high time that radical measures were taken. Indeed, it costs our companies billions every year. Belgium's reputation is at stake. The large institutions are poorly protected in Belgium, because we do not put in place the necessary arrangements. The Netherlands, a reference that you love very much, has set up a team of 88 people, while they are not a preferred target! We'll set up 17 people! Minister, it is time to move from speech to action. What you said to me is in the government statement. I expected a little more about this daily threat that affects our businesses, our institutions and our citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the summer months are at hand. A lot of people come to our shores. Until last year, the police zones of our coastal communities were able to get four additional police officers out of the federal reserve. This year, that measure would have been deleted. Also, the internship inspectors who finish their training at the West Flemish police school are no longer available this summer. In addition, there is again a slight increase in the problem of transmigration. At the beginning of the year there were about a thousand transmigrants per month in Zeebrugge. That number fell slightly, but we now notice, as the governor of West Flanders said, that the number of transmigrants is increasing again. This month of June, 114 people have already been arrested. Yesterday another action took place in Zeebrugge, including the arrest of a human smuggler. There are also signs that more is being climbed into cargo spaces. At the borders at De Panne and Jabbeke there are no extra people left to control the borders. In short, you notice that there is a little too little capacity in West Flanders. In addition, support must be provided from West Flanders at major events throughout Flanders. However, if you know that there are so many needs on our coasts, I have questions. Minister, we're missing four extra police officers per police area and we can't call on internships from the police school anymore. Transmigration is rising again. I would therefore ask you to return to the decision not to assign additional police personnel to the coastal communities this year. If that is difficult, what other additional steps can you take? Do you have a plan like that? Finally, the transmigration is rising slightly. What solution do you see for this problem? How can these problems be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u41	Mr Demon, first of all, I would like to repeat what I have said a number of times to your questions: I will not tolerate the creation of tent camps with transmigrants on the coast. That is something we will all oppose. Secondly, it is true that after we had a drastic fall in the number of transmigrants, and their number was highest when the camps began to be dismantled in Calais, there is now another slight increase. I noticed him, too. That is why we held a meeting with all those concerned on the coast on 7 June last. This meeting has led to a number of points of action. These are now being poured into a plan. It will be a plan of action in which we say what resources and staff are needed. The plan will also monitor the perception of both judicial and administrative approaches. It will also focus specifically on actions in the parking areas along the roads to the coast. This plan, which will contain a number of other things, will be presented to me on 16 June. We will then make decisions in accordance with this plan. I'm on your side to control the situation on the coast. You said just now that no resources are being used. Last night we did actions with 50 policemen, of all kinds. There were 44 irregular aliens and one human smuggler arrested. In short, we keep our finger on the wrist. I'm on your side to keep the situation on the coast under control this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, you have not answered my question as to whether there will again be structuralally four federal police officers who used to be present in every coastal community. Mr. Secretary, review this, make sure that these four people can be there for interventions. I can tell you that we have seen enough water in West Flanders. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to touch the safety crane structurally, including in West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u43	Mr President, Minister, what is a country where Roundup is allowed and rice pie is banned? Mr Frédéric, I know that you will be with me during my question; I integrate you in my mobilization and in my motivation. Checks have been made, numerous studies have been carried out to try to prove that the real homemade rice pie, which is not kept in the fridge between cooking and selling, did not contain germs harmful to health. As a result, there is actually no such thing. Statistics on food poisoning for eating a homemade rice pie produced and sold in this way are 0%. Why again and again require challenges tests vis-à-vis these bakers artisans? Mr Minister, we really have health problems related to a lack of food quality: too much sugar, too much salt, too much fat, too much pesticides in the industrial diet. But to whom do we lead a hard life? To artisans who use healthy and natural products, who consume them in a artisanal way through proven methods and sell them in a short circuit to consumers. Are you going to require the AFSCA to change its orientation to help small artisanal producers work in accordance with hygiene rules, adapted to their products and short circuits, rather than wasting its energy constantly wanting to prove that everything must be asepticated? Will you, Minister, verify and demand that those within the AFSCA who are responsible for assisting these small artisans, these small producers, to develop guides of good practice, especially in the field of hygiene, carry out their duties thoroughly and that the inspection and inspection services do not sabotage all this work by coming to inspect on the basis of rules that are industrial hygienist rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the news in the province of Liège this week, and especially in Verviers, has been intense. According to some articles, rice pie is threatened by AFSCA. I am, of course, relaying what is said in the press. We talked about pasteurized milk, raw milk. It would not be the recipe that would be a problem, but conservation. A study was requested by AFSCA to verify the storage temperature. AFSCA has missions. I don't dispute them. I also do not dispute the important role played by AFSCA in controlling this food chain in relation to consumer protection. On the other hand, I am a great advocate for local and artisanal producers. Yes, the short circuit, the small producers are a part of our economy that we must not neglect. AFSCA must remain in its role. She can't go any further, I insist. You have strengthened the small producer unit within the AFSCA. That goes in the right direction. The aim is to defend local producers and not to regulate, ban, go too far or do this for pleasure. Minister, can you, as of today, take stock of the situation? Have you had any consultations or contacts with the sector? I know that in many situations, you've been talking and you've been able to find solutions. I call for this dialogue and consultation to prove their worth and for the AFSCA Small Producers Unit to be able to find solutions adapted to the field. Thank you for the solutions that you can find and the answers that you will bring to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u45	Mr President, Minister, after the cheese of Herve, a few months ago, another of our traditional products from the province of Liège is current. I'm talking about vervieto rice pies. Indeed, it would appear that AFSCA is questioning their manufacture and production. On the one hand, the specialty is made from raw milk, therefore unpasteurized, and would therefore be likely to pose a bacterial problem. On the other hand, to respect its taste and undisturbedness, it is kept at room temperature by baker-pastry makers who are artisans, minister, I insist on this term. An independent scientific study to determine the ideal storage temperature for rice pie would have been commissioned by AFSCA and the results would be expected by September. Even if the role of the AFSCA is to control and ensure food security, which must of course be guaranteed, this must not lead to the loss of traditional products. And of course the AFSCA must also develop, and I insist, the mission of prevention, advice and support for producers, and in particular for small producers. I think she didn't learn all the lessons from the previous episode. In the current trend of looking for quality products and short circuits, I am astonished at this excess of zeal to incriminate the products of tradition that highlight the know-how of our artisans pastry-boulangers. Minister, what is the current position of the AFSCA regarding the use of raw milk and the storage of traditional rice pies at room temperature? Has a scientific study been commissioned? Does this study concern only the conservation aspect? Are the results actually expected by September? What follow-up could be given to this study? Is a ban on storage at room temperature, and therefore a challenge to the traditional manufacturing process, on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u46	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u47	That's good because you're the first vice-president, Mr. Frédéric! A little phrase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u48	Mr President, I do not want to use my power as first vice-president. I rise because of a personal fact: Mrs Gerkens called me. I'm a member of Parliament for Verviers. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I tabled a question on this subject, which did not come back to plenary. I'm surprised. In any case, I would not like the problem of local crafts to be taken seriously. I think the minister is defending the small independents. Anyway, I'm doing it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u49	So did he!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u50	It is a consumer protection problem, a subject of general interest, a question of gastronomy and local folklore. I have already read the Minister's answers in the press and I hope he will confirm that we will continue to let these artisans produce rice pie in the Verviers district.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u51	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rice pie is, unexpectedly, highlighted in our federal parliament. What is going on, dear friends? Needless to remind you, some members of the opposition have just done so, and I thank them for this, how attached I am to the work of the self-employed, but also to their status, to the artisans, to the traditions that value our various agricultural products. There is therefore no question of questioning them or questioning them. I'll start with a little collective history, if you don't mind. We are under the Martens II government in February 1980. A by-law establishes the storage conditions for several products and sets the maximum temperature at seven degrees. A few years later, in July 2014, Frédéric, the then Minister of Health and my predecessor co-signed the ministerial order confirming and specifying the same conditions for the conservation of fresh products and other products. What is at issue today is not production. Excuse me for correcting you, Mr. de Lamotte, but the rice pie is cooked. So we are not talking about raw milk or pasteurized milk, since, by definition, it is of course a product that is cooked. Sorry about that mistake. I thought you knew this production beautifully. So what is at stake here is conservation. The study that is being conducted is quite simply configured. It consists of saying: can one derogate by a legal act from the provisions of these two successive ministerial decrees, so as to enshrine this tolerance which is now recognized and applied by the services of the AFSCA, allowing the local producers, especially of Verviers and the borough, to continue to keep the rice pie outside their fridges and therefore outside the spectrum of the seven degrees? That's obviously my wish. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the purpose of this study is only to see whether we can institutionally, legally, enshrine this derogation, which is now a tolerance practiced on the ground. In all transparency, when this study is known to me, it will of course be shared. In this regard, I would like to recall that I have set up the Small Producers Unit. I have a budget of more than €900,000 with planned commitments, with around the table the regional interlocutors, the representative structures, the AFSCA. We have created this forum of permanent dialogue precisely to succeed this dialogue between small producers, proximity, artisanal processing and a reasonably thought and well understood food security, to which all of us are committed. Moreover, we have boosted the AFSCA mediation service so that, if there are still areas of misunderstanding despite our best efforts, we can bring these possible recriminations before this mediation service. So I want to reassure you: there is no dark purpose. There's no conspiracy that's known to me. There is no gloomy strategy anywhere in this country to try to harm the rice pie of the Verviers country no more than any other traditional product in particular. Since I still have a few seconds left, I'd like to make a little distinction. Multiple questions equal a slightly longer answer! I would like to remind you that there is a distinction to be made between this case and that of Herve's cheese. Don't make that mistake. What was found in the Munnix file? There was a significant pathogenic exceedance of listeria, which led to a series of conciliation proposals, including the permanent accompaniment and the acquisition by the city of Herve of the products concerned. I personally travelled with the AFSCA services for conciliation, in an attempt to find a solution in this case. Unfortunately, this conciliation was not successful. But I would remind you that Herve's artisanal cheese production still exists. I had the opportunity to visit the producer early in the morning. Let's not put all our raw milk, not all our eggs, not all our butter, not all our meat in the same basket. Together, let us ensure food security and respect for a number of quality products that we all appreciate, and which you have put to the spotlight in this Parliament this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u53	Mr Minister, we hear you say that you want to defend these independents, artisans and local products; that's so much better! But it will require an energy on your part, even stronger than the one you describe to us. Indeed, if the cell that works to help artisans develop guides of good practice - as I said in my question - is constantly contradicted or sabotaged by control and inspection services that come with other rules and criteria, these artisans will disappear. Minister, I thought I was going to offer you a nice piece of tart from Tancrémont, very mellow. And then I thought no, because we have to anticipate. If we continue with this technique and these requirements, what will happen? These pies won't exist anymore! So I wanted to avoid a confrontation with you to offer you an empty plate. But that is what is likely to happen! More artisans, more rice pies, more local products sold in the short circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u54	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u55	Mrs Onkelinx, I have indeed always had my frankness. Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer. Yes, you have solutions. Yes, you have already demonstrated this in the past. Yes, this small producer unit is in place and will continue to work. On the other hand, even if this is a boutade, I wonder how some ministers who are not competent for AFSCA and who sit in other assemblies can take a position on this. They would do much better to look at their materials, agricultural materials, which are in great need of them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u56	Mr. Borsus, you have ears with variable geometry. You didn't listen to me. I talked about conservation by bakers at the time of the sale. As my colleague has also said, I would like to stress that from the moment that good practice guides are created, they must be integrated by those responsible for the inspection of these practices. Let us ensure that episodes such as Herve's cheese or rice pie are no longer repeated, that advisory, preventive and accompaniment missions continue and that, internally, the elements are known. It is about the survival of baker-pastry artisans, respect for artisanal products and our products of the terroir. I plead for this diversity in our shops and shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you quite frankly that I had doubts this morning whether I would be asking this question here today. After all, I think that our thoughts should be directed primarily at the victims and their families. We must also certainly show gratitude to all the aid workers who have ensured that, in very difficult circumstances, the aid was delivered quickly. So I would certainly like to pay tribute to them here. However, Minister, there is also a great deal of uncertainty. Several times a day I read reports about the cause of the accident. This uncertainty not only lives with me, but also with the next of kin, with rail passengers and staff. That is why I felt that I should exercise my right of scrutiny as a Member of this House. Why is there uncertainty and concern among travellers and staff? That is, of course, because we honestly thought that our lines and trains were equipped with an auxiliary system, with a safety system. From the latest reports we could read there every day, however, it appears that, for example, 3 000 signals are not equipped, for example, the Benelux train is not yet in order. This means that we do not remember it in this House either. In addition, a member of your majority said yesterday that fraud was committed. It was in The Journal last night, too. I assume that this is correct, but I also have a request, Mr President-in-Office. If it is said in such important cases that there may have been fraud, then I hope that these documents can be delivered to Parliament and that, if so, a complaint will also be made to the Justice Department, because these are, of course, serious allegations. I hope that the necessary consequences will be given and that this will be given to Parliament. Mr Minister, people are asking for clarity today, can you clarify that? What timing can you put forward to give that clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I am deeply saddened by the tragic accident of Sunday night. The investigation should clarify the cause. We have already had a debate on the accident in yesterday's Chamber. On the equipment of the trains and the infrastructure with the safety system TBL1+ I can tell you the following on the basis of the information I received from Infrabel and SNCB. Firstly, all SNCB's trains used for domestic passenger transport have been equipped with TBL1+ since December 2013. Mr Cornu confirmed this in the Chamber on 10 March 2015. Secondly, Infrabel says that up to today 7 500 out of 10 700 signals are equipped with TBL1+. Infrabel has stated in its 2015 Safety Annual Report that it has achieved an efficiency coverage of 99.9 %. I support the request made by a number of Members of Parliament who asked for clarification yesterday. As regards the reports on the non-equipment of the rolling stock of the Benelux service Brussels-Amsterdam, I would like to point out that the issue has been raised several times in the follow-up committee on Rail Safety, for example on 10 March 2014 and 11 March 2015. After the cessation of the Fyra, it was quickly asked to re-activate the old service between the two capitals. To this end, SNCB has made use of the leased TRAXX locomotives of Bombardier. The cargo operator, SNCB and Luxembourg CFL informed them by letter that for technical reasons they could not respect the deadline. A solution was therefore needed. At the end of 2015, after consultation within the government and in all transparency, it was decided to extend the deadline once by amending the original KB until the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will not go into the technical details because we agreed to do so at a later date. You have, however, given an impetus here. In the context of a processing process, it is extremely important that this is quickly clarified. You are also aware that the legal proceedings on the Buizingen disaster have still not been completed six years after the date. That's incredibly bad for those next of kin. Let's not make this mistake at all. Secondly, I should now like to look at the President of the Chamber, if there has been effective fraud, then it would be a good thing for Parliament to be informed of all the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u60	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last year our country, and indeed the whole of Europe, was faced with a large influx of refugees, of course due to conflicts in the world. Almost 40 000 people arrived in our country, many families with children. Several governments, local authorities, our care partners and schools made a lot of efforts to accommodate these people, to make children feel at home and to offer a language bath by setting up OKAN classes. That was a good thing. For a number of months, the influx has fallen dramatically. It is therefore logical that we should reduce the additional emergency shelters. In fact, I asked you two weeks ago to cut off large-scale barracks as soon as we saw a drop in the number of refugees. That is the government's plan now, but a lot of schools and families are worried about what will happen to the children. Some have already heard that they should go to another school, perhaps even to another region or even to the other language area. Mr Secretary of State, I told you at the beginning of March that we should not transfer children, certainly not to another language area. That is not good for children with traumatic experiences, who first need months to adapt and feel at home. We must take this into account. If we have to cut down shelters, and there will be a lot of them in the coming months, it is logical that we should try to ensure that children can continue to attend the same school as much as possible or, if that is not possible, continue to study in the same region. We certainly should not move children from Flanders to Wallonia or vice versa. That is not good for their integration. What criteria will you apply if people, due to the closure of their shelter, have to move to another center? Can you take into account families with children and unaccompanied minors and transfer them to a LOI or another centre nearby, so that those children can continue to go to the same school and certainly not have to move to another region? Do you envisage, in consultation with the relevant Ministers of the Communities, in particular with the Ministers responsible for Education? I heard you had a conversation with Mrs. Crevits today. How'd that go?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to talk to you about the carousel of underage refugees, children, who seem to be getting going because of the way in which you are closing shelters. I would also ask you to consider the impact on those children. We will not talk today about the closure of shelters; we have had this debate on several occasions. We believe that this is rather an impulsive decision because we believe that you are acting too quickly. For the same money, there is another high influx within a few months and you need to improvise again. Moreover, it seems useful to maintain a number of places in a humane and realistic way for the resettlement of refugees directly from the refugee camps. This question is about the impact of closing down shelters, on minors refugees and children, who, for example, have to move from a shelter in Overijse. I've read the testimony of the director of the school where those kids go to school, the Saint Martin's College in Overijse. It's about a center of 48 unaccompanied minors. That school has invested in reception lessons, reception courses and attracting additional teachers. More importantly, this is not obvious to those children themselves. After all, you rip them loose from their familiar surroundings to deposit them elsewhere. Minor refugees and children are not cans that you can move from one store to another. These are children, vulnerable children who are often traumatized because of the war situation they fled. I therefore believe that caution is appropriate here. I'd like to ask you to stop doing that. I would ask you to take into account their vulnerability. I would also like to ask you to explain why minor refugees must leave the Overijse shelter for another centre. For the sake of clarity, this is an asylum centre that does not suddenly become empty and can therefore be closed, because there are minors there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u62	Mr President, due to the persistently low inflow, a phasing-out plan was adopted by the nuclear cabinet on 3 June. We are going to try to close ten thousand reception places by the end of the year, provided, of course, that the influx of asylum seekers remains low. However, that is not guaranteed. So we shall see. On the one hand, we close a number of collective centres and, on the other hand, individual, regular sites with NGOs, plus a reduction in capacity in other collective centres. The target sites of the NGOs and the completed LOI sites will be retained. There will also be a buffer capacity of 7 500 places, which is much more than the buffer I started with. You say that I may have to improvise again, but with a buffer capacity of 7 500 places I will not normally have to improvise, even though the inflow is rising very strongly again, Mr De Vriendt. Secondly, the non-activation of the distribution plan. The LOI sites offered by local authorities for which costs have already been incurred under the distribution plan will be met. We're putting together a list, along with Minister Borsus. The conventions will be interpreted flexibly to allow local authorities to suspend or cancel their seats if they aim at other projects outside Fedasil's remit, such as regular housing. In the case of unaccompanied minors, the current profile of young people living in the centres that will have to close the doors in the long term will be looked at. I repeat: in due course. The centre in Overijse will not be closed tomorrow, Mr De Vriendt. On the basis of this picture, what is possible for the young people in question will then be looked at. Fedasil also strives to avoid as many transfers as possible during the school year to ensure the continuity of education. That's only logical. It is also pedagogical; that is what we must do. In the case of a transfer of a minor asylum seeker, Fedasil will always allocate the most appropriate place of refuge on the basis of the minor's individual file. My cabinet has also, even during the high influx of asylum seekers, always consulted and cooperated with the cabinet of Flemish Minister Crevits. An example of this is the case of Overijse, but there are also others for unaccompanied minors. Fedasil and the Red Cross Flanders have always participated in the Task Force on Education and Asylum which organised the Minister. My cabinet, too, was always represented. In future we will continue to participate in these consultations and inform them of the phasing-out plan. That's happening right now. There is currently a meeting in Minister Crevits' cabinet on this issue. So we play very briefly on the ball. There is a task force in which we participate. If there are any questions, we immediately have a good contact. I have good contacts with my fellow Members on this issue. I think we're trying to do a good job together. This afternoon, therefore, further consultations are planned between the two Cabinets on the phasing out of the asylum centres and the OKAN classes. Since the OKAN offer has been widely distributed in Flanders and it can be used very flexibly through regulatory adjustments, it is possible that the pupils in the school where they have school courses receive the necessary support. We are therefore going to talk to the community ministers to ensure that the real OKAN students are supported in the school where they sit. Finally, I would like to reply to the question about the use of the LOI resettlement facility. In last year's asylum crisis, Belgium has done more than its share in the reception of refugees in Europe. We are a loyal partner and we will also carry out our European resettlement commitments, but no more than that. After last year's asylum crisis, our country now needs an asylum breath. Such a break is urgently needed if we are to give the asylum seekers who have arrived a decent and good chance of getting a job and a decent accommodation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you once again not to move children. I know that I asked you to do so at the beginning of March, when there was not even any question of phasing out shelters. There were cases back then, for example from a family that was moved from Antwerp to Florennes. You yourself were surprised at that, I admit. I hope that made you alert. I have children and so do you. You know it's even harder for refugee children. What they've been through is traumatic experiences. It takes them a lot of effort to feel at home here. I therefore hope that you will effectively ensure that children are not moved from one region to another, but that they can preferably continue to study in the same school or at least in the same region. This is good for the child, but it is also good for the community that has invested in that child, such as the teachers and the many volunteers who have worked. I would ask you, please, to also use the existing local shelters at the OCMW for families with children and to give them a good future. If a transfer is to be made, make sure it is done before the new school year begins, not in the middle of the school year. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I would like an answer to the very simple question as to why the Overijse centre should be closed at the end of this year. Why should the centre in Dendermonde close, also a shelter for minors, while there are still children and school walks nearby?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u65	There are 6 000 empty places.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, if so many places are empty, that is all the more reason to take full account of the rights of the child and not move them from one place to another. I think the Commissioner for Children's Rights has quite rightly raised the alarm this week. You're ignoring the rights of the child. You have some kind of restructuring in your head that you want to carry out. You clearly feel the hot breath of the Flemish Interest in your neck and you want to score by closing shelters, but you exaggerate in that. You go beyond a very healthy principle, namely the rights of the child, of toddlers sometimes, of young teenagers, who have built up school courses and a certain environment, and who, above all, want to stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u67	Mr. Secretary of State, yesterday, listening to Morning First at the RTBF, I was a little interlocked by hearing you say that some of the beneficiaries of the RIS, the leefloor, had two Mercedes parked in front of their home. This is called a caricature, which I consider rather inappropriate, even unbearable, but which is only the continuation of other statements by members of the government or the majority. Yesterday, during the debate, I told you that this statement illustrated a lack of awareness of the social difficulties encountered by many of our fellow citizens. I have reminded you that the beneficiaries of RIS live on an income below the poverty line and it must be noted that more and more people are facing this issue of poverty (between 15 and 16% Belgians). It's populism and, as you take up your duties, this kind of statement doesn't grow up. My first question is not political. She's personal. Secretary of State, can you, if only for a few moments, put yourself in the shoes of a social beneficiary, a beneficiary of the RIS, and imagine how these people can perceive this type of speech and whether they can feel stigmatized? With regard to the central point of contact that you want to open for CPAS, I will not elaborate on my point of view now. I will table an oral question in committee, because I would like to hear your opinion on the reaction of the CPAS federations and on the round table you want to set up. As far as social fraud is concerned, you said: "Social fraud affects the financing of the State and social security". I want to tell you that what is ruining the financing of social security and the State is, for example, impunity for major tax fraud. These are the SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers and others. These are, for example, the 700 million tax arrangements that the majority do not want to recover when Europe says they have been unduly given. As regards the fight against social dumping, you have heard the reaction of Mr Adrien Dawans, the President of the Liège Chamber of Construction, who says that this government does not want to stop social dumping. It is particularly concerned with the way in which your majority has transposed into Belgian law the directive on public procurement, the sacrosanct price law, which does not allow the fight against posted workers. In short, beyond all speeches and slogans, when are you really going to pursue an effective policy to combat social dumping?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u68	Mr Delizée, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I presented my general policy note for the next three years in the Committee on Social Affairs. You were positive about the general direction of my note. More specifically, I am committed to strengthening the fight against social fraud and social dumping. In this regard, cross-border social fraud is a top priority of my note. We must also combat other forms of social fraud, including at home. Indeed, I will never accept that we condemn the black work and social dumping carried out by Poles and Bulgarians, but that we close our eyes to social fraud at national or local level. For example, at Charleroi's CPAS, there is a point of contact for social dumping, but not for social fraud, about which the protocols are also lacking. For me, any form of fraud is to be punished. I make no distinction in this regard. That is why we are fighting it at all levels - local, national and European - and in the various sectors: construction, transport, horeca. In my view, it is very simple: a person who receives an allowance from the authorities and who works in black fraud twice, since he does not comply with the conditions applicable to the beneficiaries and does not pay social contributions on his work to the extent that he is illegal. Fraud means stealing citizens and businesses who contribute honestly to social security. I therefore announced yesterday a point of contact for fair competition which is accessible to local administrations and organisations. Trade unions, employers' federations, but also cities and municipalities, as well as CPAS, will be able to report on a voluntary and confidential basis the various cases of social fraud or social dumping. In the first six months of its existence, we have already received more than 4,000 cases, of which two thirds were processed by inspections and considered admissible. The problem is that at the same time, only 2,000 cases of social fraud were reported by CPAS. We open this point of contact for fair competition, so that it is more accessible for CPAS, who now have to report cases of social fraud. So we must not stigmatize the recipients. Nor should we ignore the practices our fellow citizens see with their own eyes, but which have not been sufficiently combated so far. Some cities and municipalities, including Antwerp and Ghent, have already developed protocols to combat social fraud successfully. Yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, I saw broad support in the majority as well as in the opposition to continue this struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I didn't really get an answer, except for repetitions of evidence heard yesterday. You say we mustn't stigmatize. Yes, it is. Then don't do it! It's as simple as that. On dumping, you did not have the opportunity to answer my questions. I have also noted a reaction from Mr Borsus, according to which we have never done so much in the fight against dumping. But the numbers deny it. We are champions of Europe for posted workers. We are not against what is done, but it does not go far enough. There is a 40-measure plan for fair competition. Ninety per cent of them are not executed. Run them! The directive is a missed opportunity. Go further in the fight against the posting of workers and illegal practices. Last point. We feel that this government is pursuing a policy of double standards. If you want to dig up the tax records of the people on the Panama Papers list, you'll find your Mercedes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u71	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the Islamic Legislative Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, a message of support and condolences came from the Islamic Consultative Assembly of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u72	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, I propose that the draft law amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation, Nos 1818/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law amending the law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation, Nos. 1818/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Piedboeuf et Mme Thoron.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u74	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u75	Mr President, I do not see the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u76	Mr President, for the information of the groups, the minister is abroad and therefore absent. As co-signatory for a small piece of this text, I will allow myself to try to represent it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u77	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words to justify my group's forbearance from this bill dealing with various health provisions. These are extremely technical measures which have been presented to us and for which, unfortunately, we have not had all the precise answers to the questions raised in committee. First of all, concerning paediatric diseases and the possibility given to the King to set a specific period for extending the refund of a speciality already included in the list of reimbursable specialities to children under 18 years of age, if it is already reimbursed to those over 18 years of age in the same indication, giving a faster treatment to beneficiaries under 18 years of age is obviously interesting. However, we still do not know what conditions will have to be met under this procedure and in what context it could be applied. Indeed, this new indication for children should be given the same attention as another extension of indication. It is not because a drug is allowed for children that it is the best available treatment choice. There may be other treatments that are less burdensome for the child or cheaper for health insurance. We must not forget the importance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to carry out more studies on specialties concerning children in particular. Secondly, in relation to the amendments to the Health Care and Benefits Insurance Act, in order to allow for the introduction of oral care routes provided for in the 2015-2016 dental-mutualist agreement, the first question that we always ask ourselves is whether this amendment, i.e., increasing personal contributions in dentistry, is general in scope or whether it will only be intended to allow for the introduction of such care routes. On the other hand, if we understand the importance of oral care routes, we remain convinced that this differentiation in the reimbursement of benefits for those who follow this route and those who do not will not be effective for disadvantaged audiences, among the most vulnerable audiences. By increasing the personal share of these patients for priority benefits if they did not consult a dentist the previous year, you will undoubtedly only increase the gap that already exists in this area. Because you know how difficult it is for these people to go to the dentist. Financial access to dental care remains complicated for many citizens. Other measures need to be considered for the most disadvantaged groups. The compulsory fee-paying third party is obviously an important lead. There are others, but for the time being we do not see any progress in this area. Thirdly, the new exception to the 7.5% decrease after 18 years or when a biosimilar arrives for long-acting insulins seems to us unjustified, especially since Minister De Block had previously granted an exception to the 19% declines that is valid for all drugs and not just for biologicals. The Minister only justifies the new exception on a measure that specifically targets biologicals because they have the first, which applies to all drugs. It's not a real motivation. Long-acting insulins cost twice as much for the same volume as short-lived insulins, with comparable methods and therefore costs of production. With the budget overrun announced for 2015 in medicines, it seems to me that these decisions, gifts should I say, should be more thoughtful. Finally, a final word on tobacco control. The European Directive was due to be transposed last May. The provisions that you have included in this draft containing various provisions in this context are no longer minimalist. That's not much to say. We hope that it is because it has been agreed that we will be able to have a very broad debate in the Committee on Health on this very important issue and that you would therefore like to let us move forward in this context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u78	Before I place particular emphasis on the dossiers which are important to our group in the context of this draft law on various provisions, I would nevertheless like to correct something that the previous speaker has interpreted or misunderstood, in particular on enlargement in relation to the pediatric indication. The Minister also clarified this point in committee. The previous speaker claimed that without studies there would be an extension of the target group, which is obviously not the case. That is never the case. What matters is that the procedure, which is now seven to thirteen months, will be shortened, of course, on the basis of studies. That's always the case. You are in favour of greater incentives for firms to investigate their indications for children. That is precisely the purpose of the draft law, which includes, for example, agreements on price reductions, which are currently there when the indication is extended to children. As a result, it is often less interesting for firms to invest in them, also in view of the lengthy procedure. It is just the combination of shortening the procedure and removing the drop in prices in an indication for children that will facilitate access to important medicines, including cancer and psoriasis. Furthermore, in the draft law that has been submitted, which contains various provisions, our group considers the dossiers on oral care, on the shortage of medicines and on the use of antibiotics in animals to be very important. Of course, we are also very pleased with the implementation of some agreements in the pact with the pharmaceutical sector, such as accelerated access to medicines, including for children, as I have already explained. Of course, that's for the benefit of the patient. The measure relating to the oral care pathway is controversial, even if it is intended to encourage individuals to have their teeth checked regularly. Different misinformations were sent to the world from certain angles, but the announcement of the measure alone encouraged citizens to have their teeth checked. This shows how positive this measure is and why we are calling for it to be put into practice as soon as possible. We hope that efforts will not be limited to this measure, but will also be extended, for example to the very important group of patients with diabetes, which shows that only four out of ten per year are subject to dental check-ups, while they are just more sensitive to dental problems, and to children. We learn from figures that there are indeed major problems in this area in the latter group too, especially south of the language border. Efforts are still needed. Preventive care, as has been demonstrated in the longer term, needs to be used more effectively, which is cheaper and much better for the well-being of patients and society. As far as the shortage of medicines is concerned, we in the committee welcomed the new measures. However, we hope that further steps will be taken. We see a great deal of success in a global approach, of which this draft law may be the beginning for us. As many stock breaches as possible must be avoided by clear agreements on the reimbursement procedure. Certainly vital medicines should always be available. In order to prevent stock breaches, it is necessary to establish a clear inventory, with notification of fines. If there are deficits, a solution must be found as soon as possible. Not only do pharmacists need more room for manoeuvre to use alternatives. Account must also be taken of those who have caused the deficit: they must pay the cost of opening up alternatives. We also see salvation in an ultimate stick behind the door. A clear and firm approach to stock breaches needs to be developed, especially when they occur regularly. The legal basis for inventorying the use of antibiotics in animals is a good step towards solving the problem, which often reaches the media. We have said very clearly that it is a first step for us. For us, it can go much further, for example, with the introduction of compulsory indication registration. In addition, the veterinarian, who should play a central role in registration and not the farmer, should no longer correct the data given. Finally, I would like to talk about the procedure for medical devices. We welcome the initiatives to embed the evidence-based medicine approach throughout the policy. We think that is a good step. Of course, our group will fully support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the general discussion in committee, I have already expressed my appreciation for the fact that this draft contains many provisions implementing the pact with the pharmaceutical sector. Our country is champion of clinical research at European level and we are among the best at world level. MSD and Janssen Pharmaceutica realize 90 percent of the clinical trials phase 1 in our country. Pfizer has his own lab in our country. Those clinical trials are not only important to keep pharmaceutical companies in our country as an economic actor or to serve pharmaceutical companies, as suggested in committee. No, clinical trials at home are particularly important for patients. After all, it also means that our patients will have more rapid access to innovative medicines. In order to maintain that position, the Minister concluded a pact with the pharmaceutical industry, including not only financial measures, but also many measures to make procedures more efficient and faster, to make medicines more readily available to the patient, as well as measures concerning biobanks with the consent of the donor, also taking into account the use of transformed material. It is therefore also important to say that the draft represents a significant part of the Minister's commitment, and we can only support it as a group. My colleague Yoleen Van Camp has already said that the unavailability of medicines is a problem in our country. I put a question to the Minister some time ago and she replied to me that there was already a hotline for inaccessibility. The draft also strengthens our Minister's obligation to register, because a temporary unavailability must also be reported. I am glad that wholesalers will also be required to report, because part of the problem naturally arises in parallel trade. Only if we have a clear view of the inaccessibility, can we work on the cure. From our group, of course, we are looking forward to the measures to remedy the problem and, not insignificantly, to the results that will be achieved in the task force at European level. With this legal text we are also creating a legal basis for a follow-up system at the FAGG for the use of antibiotics in animals. Although this aspect falls within the competence of Agriculture, it is to a large extent also a matter of health. The antibiotic resistance, which is very high in our country and is a threat to public health, is linked to the excessive human use of antibiotics, but also to the excessive use of antibiotics in animals. Therefore, the measure is not too early and I am glad that the government is working on it. I hope that the implementation of the measure and the monitoring of its implementation will be monitored very closely. After all, there is a lot at stake here. We are pleased that the basis is also laid for long-term dental care. The increase in the brake fee from 10 % to 20 % for beneficiaries with an increased allowance and from 25 % to 40 % for ordinary beneficiaries who did not consult with the dentist the previous year may seem antisocial in a first phase. However, it is essential that we encourage people to consult each year. That is necessary, because today only 60% of people go to the dentist every year, even though many measures have been taken in the past to enable people to consult the dentist. I am thinking here of the full reimbursement of oral examination, the removal of tartar, filling or repairing teeth, treating teeth nerves and pulling teeth in children under 18 years of age. The limited results of these measures required other measures, as only regular dental visits can ensure a healthier dental record. Finally, I believe that all-in RIZIV funding for all care-related costs in the forensic psychiatric centres is a good thing given the vulnerability of the people staying there. It shows that the government takes the situation of interned people to heart. Open Vld will therefore fully support the design.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a relatively short general statement, since the debates have already taken place in committee. I would just like to point out that the project before us brings together, as has traditionally been the case, various but indispensable measures in the field of health care. This project also translates into administrative simplifications. In this regard, I agree with Mr Senesael, who also spoke of the technical aspect. This project also translates into accelerated procedures for the benefit of the patient. For example, we are thinking, as has been said, of reducing the time between the decision to reimburse a drug and the implementation of the measure. I also note with satisfaction the new procedure aimed at reducing the waiting period between the granting of authorisation under a paediatric condition and the reimbursement of medicines which have already been reimbursed for adults. It is true that, at present, a company wishing to market a proprietary medicinal product must first develop it for adult patients, and it will only then be possible for it to adapt it. Some doctors already prescribed this medication to children with the consequence of a lack of reimbursement and responsibility for the prescription. Children will therefore be able, through this new approach, to gain a real benefit. I also support the introduction of a comprehensive funding system for the reimbursement of care costs in legal psychiatry centres, and I would like to point out, as I said in committee, that the lack of adequate care for inmates who are currently in prison must be stopped. All of our citizens deserve quality care at the right time and especially in the right place. Articles 19 and 20 refer to the increase in the cost of dental services. This is a patient's accountability measure that aims to encourage people to perform dental testing each year. This is a measure taken by the National Dento-Mutualist Commission in the 2015-2016 Tariff Agreement. Of course, we can only subscribe to it. Article 31 provides for the obligation to notify the unavailability of medicinal products, even if temporary. This positive measure will anticipate potential problems on the ground when a drug is at risk of exhaustion. I had given a very specific example in committee. It is true that in some cases there may be abuses. We therefore have the will to have a great cooperation between the actors and, above all, to ask them to take on their responsibilities. That was also an important point to be made. Finally, I would like to highlight the new transitional measures for pharmaceutical-technical assistants, which were expected by the sector. This was also reported in committee. Now there are provisions, and I believe that the whole sector will benefit from them. These are the various comments I wanted to make in relation to the current debate. It is clear that the MR group will strongly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u81	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this proposal on various health provisions in committee a few weeks ago after it was presented to us. We believe that this draft law contains a number of technical issues that are resolved in a positive way and a number of complex procedures that are simplified and made more transparent. See you there, bravo. Despite this good news, there are still two major points in this draft law on which we fundamentally disagree. The first concerns the adjustment of the brake payment ceilings for dental care. This is in line with the measure laid down in the agreement between dentists and sickness funds. As a result, the brake fee on a visit to the dentist is increased considerably for those who do not check at least once a year. I fully agree, our group fully agrees that we should try to encourage people to go to the dentist and have their teeth examined on a regular basis, but that is really not done by punishing them. For many people the threshold is already high to go to the dentist today, not so much because of the first cost for that first visit, but because of the fear of the cost if something is wrong. We all know that oral care isn't really cheap. If that also adds to the financial threshold for the first visit, then the most vulnerable in our society will drop out first. The measure means that a person who has not visited or forgot to visit his dentist in the past year will pay 14 euros of brake money instead of 7 euros the following year. We firmly believe that this measure punishes those people who already have very difficult access to dental care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, those are the falsehoods to which I have already referred. That's not right at all. I think you should take a look at the facts. The point is that those who have not been to the dentist's check-up in the previous year will have to pay a higher brake charge: not for an ordinary check-up, not for routine tests, not for routine procedures, but if it turns out that problems have arisen that could have been avoided by an annual visit. We are talking, for example, about the larger interventions such as a tooth extraction or a cyst. It's not about things like checking teeth and removing dental plaque. That's not right at all. You note that the financial barrier is raised and that people don't go to the dentist because they don't dare. I am therefore very interested in what you are proposing. For example, for children the visit to the dentist is free all over the line. Nevertheless, we see that the problem of non-compliance with the annual visit to the dentist is much worse. So what's your alternative? What exactly do you propose to encourage people to go to the dentist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, you know our position on this. Every time the price for a visit or the brake fee is increased, people will be scared off. Especially people in a vulnerable situation do not always see how the system works. So people will be scared off. What we're talking about is this. We also want to encourage people, especially those in a vulnerable position, to go to the dentist. For us, however, there is far too much sticking and too little rooting here. Everyone in education will tell you that people need to be encouraged to get positive results. Those results are not obtained by punishing people. That is why we do not agree. We all benefit from a well-kept dentures. However, we are convinced that just those vulnerable people will cease to exist. That is why we will retable our amendment on the third-payer scheme with the dentist. A second point that we would like to highlight here is the adjustments relating to tobacco products. We fully agree with the extension of the definitions which include e-cigarettes and the like. That is a good measure for us. However, the evil is once again in the tail here, in the very last article of this draft, which amends the labelling of tobacco products in order to bring them into line with the European directive. Minister, I hope you will convey to your colleague that it is really a missed opportunity. It was a great opportunity to start with the so-called plain packaging, whereby cigarette packets are stripped of all advertising and trendy imagery of cigarettes for which young people are so sensitive. We all know that it is those young people who we must try to keep away from the cigarette because they have the greatest chance of becoming and remaining addicted. In the meantime, the neutral package system has proved its worth in a number of places. In our opinion, the fact that the Minister is losing this opportunity and absolutely wants to wait until 2019 to start the plain packaging is a big mistake. To sum up, the draft contains a number of good technical adjustments and two substantive errors. We will therefore abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u84	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill with various provisions includes some interesting measures that we will support. As a result of our discussions in committee, Minister, on policies to better control the use of antibiotics for animals in order to reduce their consumption, given the risks of resistance to these antibiotics, we have come to the conclusion that we must support this measure, which we consider to be positive. Other provisions of the bill under consideration are also interesting. However, different questions remain unanswered, while certain provisions may be raised. As a result, the Minister did not respond satisfactorily to our questions regarding the conditions under which certain measures taken to facilitate access to drugs could be framed during our discussions with her; It is true that the purpose of the provisions before us is to facilitate, to speed up access to certain medicines, to certain refunds. However, the processes used sometimes raise questions. Thus, changing a list of authorised or unauthorised medicinal products and publishing, a posteriori, by means of a decree, the amendment of the said list rather than bringing it into conformity with a decree constitutes a first step that opens doors to the way to authorize and negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies without ensuring that the regulatory and supervisory role will be effectively fulfilled by the INAMI authorities. There is also the question of making decrees or taking legislative measures in Parliament, where this proves to be mandatory. This text also sacralizes the non-transparent negotiations between the Minister, the Public Health FPS and pharmaceutical companies, within the framework of the pact between the pharmaceutical industry and the Minister of Health "for the benefit of patients" – in any case, that is what is stipulated in this pact – but also and above all for the benefit of pharmaceutical actors who develop innovative products and new molecules. In this respect, the text seems too positive, too self-control oriented and too little on the need for policy to assume its role. Two points are really problematic. The first concerns the measures taken on the penalization of the person who does not regularly consult the dentist to have access to the lowest possible moderator ticket. The scheme penalises the person who is not sufficiently responsible. This is placed as part of the desired oral care journey. We find that this is a deviation, a diversion from the concept of the path of care. The path of care is not defined as a straight line from point A to point B for the person with a health problem, here a need for dental care. If the person deviates from this line, he or she is subject to penalties. In some cases, she will be excluded from certain care. In others, it will be punished financially under the pretext of accountability. But a journey of care is not that. It is to consider the person as a whole, to include the various stakeholders involved in the different care they need and, between the patient and these care providers, to consider how to give the patient access to the necessary services. Oral care is known to be the most difficult health care. The impoverished person, the one who has a poor image of himself, who does not trust him, who does not trust others, is often one of the poorest people. We've seen it. These people don't go to the dentist enough. They come from disadvantaged socio-cultural backgrounds. It is these people who will be penalized, because they do not go to the dentist. What should be done? In any case, take measures of pro-action vis-à-vis these people. We must play a proactive role and adopt behaviours that "will seek them". We need to be able to better inform them and make them feel confident to visit the dentist. Of course, they should not be penalized or given a stronger image of the cost of dental care: they are expensive. They are generally expensive, but they benefit from rates that are sometimes adapted to their income. They are convinced, however, that this care is too expensive and thanks to your project, we are further strengthening this idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u85	I think that the opposition is not listening to what Mrs Van Camp has just said about dental care. I will repeat that very briefly. Do you think that if a patient is punished if he can go to a dentist every year for a check-up and if there are any problems, he will receive a better refund rather than a patient saying that he should not be in control every year and if his teeth fail after 20 years, is the government expected to pay for this? Is that okay with you with the patient? You need to give a sign to the patient. The government doesn't just pay back to pay back. This is not, in the first instance, a saving measure either. People want to make sure that every patient in this country has healthy teeth. You call that penalty. I think that's about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u86	These are theoretical arrangements made by people in an office. As they are not on the ground, they do not see that this objective, which we all pursue, namely to visit his dentist regularly, does not work in fact! You say it yourself: when care is free, people don't go to the dentist. What oral care represents is not interpreted in the same way by all, which means that some people do not go there. You have to work to help them get there, you have to take steps to achieve the goal, but you have to do something other than what you do. The elimination of the refund and the penalties have already been experienced; this has not worked. It doesn't hold people accountable. Accountability is not at stake, but trust!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u87	That, too, is really bullshit and bears witness to a lack of file knowledge. This measure does not even come from the government, but was proposed by Dentomut. Who's in there? The dentists themselves, yet people who work on the premises daily with people and provide dental care. Don't you think? Secondly, you and the previous speaker are just talking about the groups of opportunities, while this arrangement does not apply to the increased caterers, so please do not repeat any falsehoods about this either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u88	I'm a sociologist from training. Sociological research shows very clearly that when working with people in poverty, rewarding works much better than sanctioning. A lot of research has been done on this. One can read the degree of poverty by way of speaking from the teeth. I do not want to polarize at all, but the way in which some groups in our society are sensitized and how people go to the dentist can go in a different direction, especially for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u89	I need to repeat myself. I just said, but you're not listening exactly, that this doesn't apply to people with increased benefits. So what you're saying doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u90	It makes sense and I agree with Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Dedry. Anyone who has already worked with opportunity groups knows that a difficult regulation means that people do not go out of fear. In addition, punishments achieve the opposite effect. It's not because it doesn't apply to people with increased benefits. People don't understand! Make sure that people can go to the dentist in a good way, that children do not go backwards and are not put back in their education, that children can apply as adults with a beautiful mouth full of teeth. I have the impression that Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Somers have never seen a group of poor people with small children up close.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u91	Mr President, I have quite a bit of experience in the sector and I can assure you that it is not just about the money. It is about a total set of values and also fear of a number of things. Families who live in poverty, but also families who live just above the poverty line and have other values or other perceptions about society, see a very great fear of going to a dentist. One does not go to a dentist until one is in pain and so it is actually too late. That is the daily reality. You just can't imagine the number of false teeth and false teeth that I've had paid as OCMW chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u92	Mr President, we have also discussed this in committee. I am particularly sorry that we have not made any progress. The problem is also that the health gap is only widening by increasing the number of dentists that are partly or completely unconventional. This was demonstrated by a reply from Minister De Block to a question I asked her. The figures of the RIZIV are clear. This is at the expense of those who do not know what the difference is between convention and non-convention. Especially the poorer sections of the population can't afford the dentist anymore. Now that's organizing the health gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u93	Mr President, this is a decision of the Dento-Mut, which cannot be said to be composed solely of people in offices. They are quite familiar with the reality of the field. Care must be taken to see how children, adolescents and even adults will consult their dentist in a timely manner. It is a pity that the Minister of Health is not here because I would really like to plead with her and the government for a regular assessment of the effects of this mechanism. I can hear "perhaps we will be effective" but we will have to pay attention to the fact that we are not more harmful to a number of children, adolescents or adults and that they are further removed from the circuit and regular follow-up by a dentist, which is likely to be very costly in terms of quality for patients, but also in terms of social security, because the care will be much heavier and will be reimbursed anyway. I therefore call for a regular evaluation with the Dento-Mut so that we can really make sure that there is no pitfall and deleterious effect of this mechanism. You may think that you do the right thing, but sometimes you do the wrong you don't want to do it, which is why it's important to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u94	Mrs De Coninck, you say, from your experience in the OCMW, that we cannot imagine how often a denture must be refunded. That's what it's about. Those people have to go to the dentist early.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u95	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u96	But they're not going! Then in an OCMW, make sure that people are stimulated. Dental care under 18 costs nothing! Tooth care for the underprivileged doesn't cost anything. The base costs nothing, they can go to the dentist for free every year, but they don't go. There are limits, too. I'll join Mrs. Fonck. This should not even be said here, but in the framework of good governance, every new method, every new procedure and every new intervention will be evaluated on time. In good governance, that's a basic rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u97	I understand that you are reacting in this way, because you confirm all the prejudices about poverty of opportunity that live in society. What's the difference between someone who lives in poverty of chance and someone who doesn't live in poverty of chance? That is the lack of long-term thinking. One often goes to the dentist only when one is in pain and when a tooth has to be pulled. That is often the reality. They have to go much sooner, but why don't they? Because they don't see that good teeth are important for the rest of their lives, also to apply and be presentable. That's so for a lot of things. They often also go to the launderette because they do not have the means to buy a washing machine, although it is cheaper in the long term. Those are just a few dynamics playing. Through education, through the school and through contacts with parents and organisations, we can raise awareness about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u98	Mr President, I will be brief. I hear both opinions. Being also in charge of social integration, I hear certain remarks and points of view. That is one of the elements on which Mrs Maggie De Block had been informed and questioned in committee. She wanted to agree on an evaluation, as Mrs Fonck has just mentioned, so that we can come back in committee when the time comes to see what the desired and possibly unwanted impacts of the measure are. In this way, we will be able to share the findings together, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u99	Minister, I am pleased to hear this answer, because it will be essential in the face of the fears that many here speak of, given the difficulty that a wide range of people have in getting to the dentist and the penalties they face, and hence their even greater distance from dental care. In relation to this, it is important that the impact of measures be examined. But it is also important in view of the intentions that are going through this debate. Such agitation to demonstrate that you still have to be sufficiently responsible for yourself by going to the dentist regularly really translates everything that goes through the policies you pursue in both health and social matters. It is to consider that those who do not do enough, who do not demonstrate that they have enough merit, are penalized or excluded. This is an example, but there will be others in other provisions. Among the solutions are to give people confidence, stop wanting to exclude them and, perhaps, stop impoverishing them through certain measures taken in recent years. I wanted to speak on a final point on tobacco measures. I am mixed, because we are waiting for the transposition of the European directive into its various components to take place no later than May this year. Parliamentarians of the Public Health Committee have tabled bills and resolutions for more than a year. We are trying to work with the minister, but we have not yet come to an end. The Minister had made a commitment to develop provisions against tobacco consumption, advertising and marketing on the basis of the texts tabled in committee. That's why I like to repeat his answer. I hope her colleague has heard it. We abstained on the amendments tabled, including those tabled by Mrs Fonck, which she is resubmitting today, because we wanted this collective work to really be organised in committee. Beyond this, it is still scandalous that in June the chapter on "Compliance with the European Directive" in the draft law on various health provisions is almost empty, whereas, for more than a year, we have had the opportunity to work on proposals tabled by parliamentarians. I therefore hope, and I say this to the members of the majority and the minister, that we will be able to reach a conclusion before the parliamentary holidays and that we will be able to have the minister to carry out this work in the committee. For these reasons, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer go back to the decisions of the Dento-Mut, since I took advantage of the lively debate between each other to give my opinion. This bill contains several interesting provisions in terms of simplifying procedures or antibiotic use for animals, although, since this part concerns you, minister, we will have to try to take into account the situation of highway veterinarians. A positive point is the faster entry into force of the reimbursement authorisation for medicinal products. It would be good to give ourselves guidelines and to oblige ourselves, as a State, to respect them. For the pharmaceutical sector, this remains a weak point. With regard to paediatrics, one can note an interesting element. For paediatric conditions, 80% of medicines are known to be used off-label; on this point, I would remind you that a KCE study has been carried out. I can only plead with the government to work on KCE's recommendations on off-label drugs. For both children and healthcare providers, this is a matter on which I think it is important to move forward. I am not going to talk about a whole series of aspects that have already been mentioned in committee. I essentially have two points to make, which I believe are problematic. First of all, I really find it a pity that the Minister of Health – and even more so in bills such as this one that are melting-pot projects with various provisions – is once again receiving funding from hospitals. In this regard, a series of decisions have been taken since the beginning of the legislature, even though the work on the reform of hospital financing is under way and has not been completed. Successively, every two or three months, we have a negative impact with significant negative effects on hospital budgets. In the end, an opacity remains about where we are going and what the funding mechanism for tomorrow's hospitals will really be. I can only plead that we don't go on with this approach. We need to see the reality of hospitals. I recall that the MAHA study shows that 40% of hospitals are in the red, despite professional management in budgetary terms. And I will only take one example, which I cannot help but quote because it is quite caricatural: the minister made the decision, in a bill, to delete outright the sections of legislation that relate to the financing of a jurisdiction that particularly affects the hospital – this is the case here for haemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis and extra-hospital dialysis – without any other provisions in place. It's just a emptiness. We don't know, we're talking, we're concerting; that's right, the associations are concerted, and a meeting was held again this morning. The logic would, of course, be that in the same text, even if these are still various provisions, the articles on financing should be deleted and new decisions and how to finance should be shown in a transparent way. This is both good management and responsible and transparent management. This also allows hospitals and health care providers to see clearly with all the data available. The second issue that poses a problem to me – as you will know, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Health – is all about the tobacco control approach. In this draft law, which contains various provisions, the European directive is transposed, but in substance it is only translated into the mandatory position of the European directive by leaving aside all that this directive allows Member States and gives them freedom, to return it later or even forever. It's the law of every effort. The position is ultra minimalist. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of a series of new decisions that have just been taken by the new judiciary and the new legal system. For example, for May 2016 alone, on 4 May 2016, the European Court of Justice confirmed the opinion delivered by the Advocate General on 23 December 2015 and found that the European Tobacco Directive was in line with European legislation and that Member States could introduce neutral packages in the image of the United Kingdom, France and Ireland. On 19 May 2016, the British High Court of Justice handed down a very detailed verdict, lasting more than 300 pages, in which it rejected the tobacco industry's entire argument regarding the neutral package. Since the tobacco industry's arguments on the lack of effectiveness of this measure, respect for intellectual property or the increase in illegal trade, all these arguments of the tobacco industry are simply rejected by the British High Court of Justice. These are arguments that must speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, since you used these arguments by obviously relaying the tobacco lobby. The British High Court of Justice also found that the billions claimed by the tobacco industry as damages were irrelevant, considering that smoking is the cause of real epidemics of various diseases. In Belgium alone, we have 20,000 premature deaths every year, not to mention the large number of cancer patients – remember that tobacco is the leading cause of cancer – and a whole series of lung or cardiovascular diseases. All these opinions are in line with the opinion of the Australian Constitutional Court, the French Constitutional Council of 21 January 2016 or, as I said at the moment, the European Court of Justice and the British High Court of Justice. All of this to tell you that we could have, no, we should have taken advantage of the transposition of the European directive to also make important progress in the fight against tobacco. I plead and will continue to plead for progress to be made on the establishment of the neutral package and the removal of the remaining exemption from the ban on advertising. Mr Minister, it has been more than ten years since Belgium ratified the World Health Organisation Convention to ban tobacco advertising completely and is still not being respected. We are very bad students in this area. I also plead for progress in the protection of minors with regard to passive smoking in play areas and in vehicles. Finally, I continue to argue that e-cigarette should rather be sold in pharmacies, because it would make it a real help to stop smoking, rather than doing what it is today, that is, a new door into the world of tobacco for young people. I have tabled the amendments which concern the various aspects of tobacco which I have just mentioned. I can assure you that I will never stop deploying as much energy as possible in tobacco control, in connection with tobacco experts and the Cancer Foundation. I've seen too many patients suffer and die from the effects of tobacco only to let go and not to lead the fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u101	Mr President, I apologize to the Minister of Health. I had the opportunity to react directly to oral care. With regard to the important point raised by several speakers, I confirm the presence of the Minister of Health, very soon, in committee, with the aim of discussing all the measures in the context of tobacco control. Irrespective of the minimal transcript which has been done in committee and which is proposed to you today, it is clear that the whole debate on tobacco control will take place. Mrs De Block tells me that she will very soon be asking for a debate in the Committee on Public Health to be put on the agenda. I turn to the other more technical elements of information, in particular concerning the provision, organisation and articulation with the journey of care. In view of the provisions on the technical organisation of the authorisation of medicinal products, the procedure for its acceleration, the Minister of Health also informs me that she will forward the information to the committee. I act, notwithstanding a number of points of divergence, the positive tone of certain comments, the accelerations which you have been willing to stress in the recognition procedures and the generally positive tone of certain intentions of abstention which have been announced to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1838/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1838/6) The draft law contains 61 articles. The bill has 61 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u104	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 16 - Karin Jiroflée (1838/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u105	Chapter 4 (n) • 5 - Catherine Fonck (1838/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u106	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Reserved: the vote on the amendments and Rule 20. Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 20. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 19, 21 to 61. Adopted article by article: articles 1 to 19, 21 to 61. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u108	Mr President, Mrs Matz had to be absent for medical reasons. She refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate in committee was of good quality. The report is, too. I am not going to develop everything that has been said again. I will not come with new arguments today. I will only have a few words to stress that the project as it stands remains a source of concern for the PS group. The facts covered by the sanctions incorporated into the law are for us a matter of justice and the Criminal Code, and we cannot be satisfied with a simple administrative procedure to try them. It also raises questions about effectiveness in the follow-up of sanctioned candidates. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is concerned about the fulfilment of Belgium's non-housing material obligations under this project. An amendment to the original draft requires an evaluation of the measure after one year. It is this provision that justifies our abstention. We will therefore be careful to ensure that this assessment is carried out in depth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u110	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as the draft law shows, the asylum crisis presents us with a number of challenges. Fortunately, the number of asylum applications is falling, but this does not mean that the high number of applications from 2015 has already been fully processed. The huge number of asylum seekers currently to be taken care of is, of course, increasing the number of smaller and larger incidents in reception centres, where physical or sexual violence is unfortunately sometimes increasing significantly. The figures speak for themselves, a quadrupling of those who had to be temporarily excluded in 2015 compared to 2014. Unfortunately, the current arsenal of sanctions shows that there are not always sufficient deterrents for some asylum seekers. For others, the facts are so serious that a temporary exclusion, which can now be as much as possible, is not enough. There are also people who constantly spoil the atmosphere in the centres, but even in their case, temporary exclusion does not offer any relief. It is therefore logical that a director should be able to decide that it is necessary, for reasons of public order or good peace in his centre, to definitively exclude someone. Fortunately, in exceptional cases, these are people for whom a transfer to another centre is no longer a solution. Mr Secretary of State, this draft extends the legal possibilities to address an acute problem in the reception centres. Our group is well aware that a purely definitive exclusion from an asylum centre cannot be a complete solution to dealing with misbehaving asylum seekers. Locking people in the existing closed centres is also not a solution at the moment, because they are still undergoing a procedure and because the places in closed centres are reserved for processed asylum seekers for their return. That is why we are repeating the question that we have already put to you in committee. We ask you to take two actions to address the problem of violent asylum seekers more appropriately. Firstly, the N-VA Group has already argued in committee that consideration should be given to the possibility, within the federal government's budget, of providing additional capacity for closed reception. We want an additional closed center or an extra closed wing in an existing center, just for those people who, by definition, make it difficult for other asylum seekers to live together and who pose a specific threat to public order. Secondly, our group believes it is necessary for such people, after they have been locked up, to be put into an accelerated procedure so that they can be clear about their right of residence. If they are not recognised as refugees, they can be deported very quickly. Mr Secretary of State, our group understands that this draft law is a very short-term solution to the very acute problem facing you and your services. We see it as a step in the right direction to tackle asylum seekers who are seriously misbehaving in the centres. However, we ask you to examine the above proposals together with the government. We will, of course, give our full support to this bill. We hope that the other majority parties will be prepared to discuss the other two proposals. An amendment was tabled in committee at the request of CD&V, but Mrs Lanjri will perhaps clarify that herself. The aim is to evaluate this measure, which will hopefully be adopted shortly, one year after its entry into force. We hope to discuss in this House in a year's time whether this measure is adequate. Nothing, of course, Mr Secretary of State, says that we must wait a year to take other good measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u111	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the sake of clarity, we too believe that inappropriate behaviour in reception centres cannot be dealt with, that action must be taken against and that sanctions must be imposed. If asylum seekers commit very serious crimes, sexual crimes or other, then we believe that justice should act. In that I follow Mr Dewael who has just said firmly that the legislation in our country must be respected. Well, the Justice Department has to act on crimes. If we are talking about less serious facts, inappropriate behavior, then I think we should resolve it internally. Many people and actors in the healthcare sector often face violence or inappropriate behaviour and try to monitor and correct it internally. There are quite a few ways of doing that. However, I find it very difficult to propose that asylum seekers who commit crimes, who commit misbehaviour, send them to homeless centres, put them on the streets and de facto put the local authorities on the spot for supervision and public order. If I have understood her correctly, Mrs Smeyers also points out that exclusion alone does not solve anything in the longer term and that we need to find other instruments to deal with it in a good way. Should I now be of bad will and from the opposition populist stance, which you would certainly be doing from the opposition, I might actually say that a crooked asylum seeker must in the long run commit crimes or commit misbehaviour because he will then have the right to leave the asylum centre and do what he wants. I therefore agree with the demand to find sustainable solutions and to move away from the policy of shifting and ostriching.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u112	You will not be surprised, Mr Secretary of State, that we are in favour of stricter action against asylum seekers who are misbehaving in reception centres. I can largely agree with what previous speakers have already said. Mrs De Coninck is absolutely right to say that excluding nothing will solve anything in the long term. It just shifts the problem. However, I do not share her view that this will create precedents for other asylum seekers. They are now in an open asylum centre, where they can go and stand wherever they want. In Germany, 140 000 asylum seekers are missing. They were registered and stayed somewhere in an asylum centre, but they do go and stand wherever they want today. The argument you just quoted does not, of course, apply. Mr Secretary of State, I have tabled two amendments to your bill. One of them responds to the comments I have just heard from Mr Smeyers, namely that exclusion from an asylum centre alone does not solve anything. You describe that only exceptional cases and very serious events can lead to temporary exclusion from the asylum centre. When it comes to such serious cases, we must be concerned not only about the safety of staff in the asylum centre but also about the safety of society in general. We cannot just let these people go and tell them to stop coming into the asylum centre. We are equally concerned about safety in our neighbourhoods, cities, parks, swimming pools and so on. We therefore believe that you should not wait for Mr Smeyers' justified request to provide additional capacity for closed reception to provide an extra closed centre. If such cases are rightly excluded from the regular asylum centres, they must be transferred to a closed centre. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. A second argument why it is absolutely necessary is that they may end up in an accelerated procedure. If it turns out that they have to be deported, which is not certain, but of course they can, then there is a great chance that they will not be found for their expulsion if they are not transferred to a closed centre. For us, this is not a non-binding long-term recommendation, but a condition for the adoption of this draft law. However, I have just heard Mrs Smeyers. Apparently, I can count on her support for my amendment. Mr Secretary of State, a second amendment we have tabled to your bill concerns the daily allowance. You are right to provide for the possibility of withholding part of the fee or the whole fee to which they are entitled for a maximum of four weeks. When I read the discussion in the committee's report, I felt that it was the parent who wanted to take away a few euros of pocket money from the primary school child. After all, it is not a very large sum of money. An adult now gets 7.40 euros a week. For the under 12 year olds, that is 4.50 euros. You may be able to reduce some of this for up to four weeks. The idea is good, but it's a little soft. That is why we are tabling our amendment in order not to limit this retention in time. You can do that for four weeks, but you can also keep that money longer. With our amendment, we do it without a maximum time limit. The option to withdraw part of the money does not make much impression either, since it is such low amounts. This option is also deleted in our amendment, which calls for a sufficiently strong signal to be sent to those who behave misbehaviourally. We would therefore like to see at least the full daily allowance for a period of time, often longer than four weeks, withheld. That concludes the explanatory statement of our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u113	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the bill purports to respond to situations, facts or behaviour that have unfortunately multiplied in recent months, or even in recent years, due in particular to the increase in the number of asylum seekers in our country. There is no doubt that there is a need to degrade statistics in relation to the reality that we are seeking to sanction through the bill before us. What strikes me at the reading of the provisions before us is that, in short, we are moving from an administrative sanctions regime as provided for in the 2009 Act in the event of failure to comply with the internal rules of refugee institutions or reception centres, to a more disciplinary regime, in particular by the nature of the penalties envisaged. Indeed, the nature of the sanctions that can be imposed on political refugee candidates who have serious and heavy behaviour and are liable to be punished at the criminal level is being increased. I agree here with Mrs De Coninck's speech. I believe that it should not be assumed that justice cannot follow ordinary offences or offences committed by political refugee candidates and that, as a result, only the measures provided for in the bill can be effectively implemented. I cannot insist too much on asking that the government first ensure – this obviously means giving justice – that there is a memorandum of understanding between the College of Attorneys General and the competent bodies at ministerial level to ensure that the most serious acts committed by asylum-seekers are effectively prosecuted, particularly if there are offences against persons or crimes committed against persons. This is obviously unacceptable, and that is where we must be very firm. I have the feeling that the government is proposing to have a system of substitution for the absence of criminal prosecution by prosecutors for offences or serious offences committed by political refugee candidates. I do not share this option, which is to say that justice does not do its job, and we propose an alternative disciplinary regime. Justice may not do its job because it is not given the means or the means to make it a priority. The Council of State has said this when considering your bill: it will be necessary to check the proportionality between the penalties imposed and the nature of the charges. Given the type of sanctions that can now be imposed, such as the permanent exclusion, withdrawal or reduction of allowances for four weeks, it would be necessary to know the nature of the facts that may be the subject of the sanctions. The proportionality criterion requires that a sanction cannot be established without the qualification of the facts likely to be the target. The bill is silent on this. It is in my opinion that you will be criticized, because you cannot leave to the discretion of the school directors alone to qualify certain facts and impose certain sanctions without setting stricter legal criteria than those listed in your bill or in the laws in force. These are the reservations of a legal nature and therefore of political opportunity that I express. No laxity - no one is above the law when established in Belgium - but no regime derogating from the general principles of the right enjoyed by everyone in a State governed by the rule of law. I am not sure that with your bill you are not creating such a particular regime that you are going to deprive those concerned of a proper assessment of their situation in view of the nature of the facts they have committed. That is why we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u114	Mr. Speaker, I agree with some of my colleagues on this bill, in which we recognize the Secretary of State's stigmatizing speech about people who have fled the war; our wars, even, could I say. Of course, it is not a question of justifying attacks on physical or sexual integrity. Such attacks must of course be punished, but they must be punished like any crime. Everyone is subject to possible convictions in court. What is proposed here is a parallel sanctions regime, an exception regime. This is obviously unacceptable for the PTB-GO! who will vote against this bill. I would add that the Secretary of State's argument that justice is overburdened and unable to deal with these cases is obviously not valid. Indeed, as is well known, this government gives far too little power to justice, and this is still seen in the social actions of the magistrates. This is obviously not a valid or valid argument for introducing a parallel system of exceptions. We will oppose this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u115	Mr. Speaker, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, the People's Party cannot support this bill, as I announced in committee. Indeed, I remain concerned about the consequences of a definitive exclusion from the host network and the abolition of the daily allowance. These people would end up on the street, without any means of subsistence. There's a great risk of falling into crime. In addition, an appeal to the labour courts seems inappropriate, in the sense that these courts are already overburdened. The file could not be reviewed within a reasonable time. Moreover, this would be a bad signal sent to workers who resort to this jurisdiction and must wait for such an abnormally long period of time. If there is an offence of violence or assault, it is in my opinion the correctional court that is the only jurisdiction, as with any citizen of this country. I am also sceptical about re-entering, even partially, a permanently excluded asylum-seeker. If he already, after a few days, has difficulty respecting the rules of living together, what will happen in the future? Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, for these reasons I shall abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u116	Mr President, asylum seekers who behave badly in centres, it is a difficult subject. We have been able to welcome many asylum seekers over the last few months. The vast majority of them, I cannot stress this sufficiently, and I have said this in committee too..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are incidents and we should not sweep them under the mat, but what does they do with them? The problem isn't new. It has existed for as long as asylum policy exists. Reception has been taking place in collective places since the late 1990s and collective structures sometimes face challenges in this area. A law was therefore adopted in 2007 with a number of measures. Under that law, seven sanctions can be imposed gradually. It starts with a warning, then the misconduct must appear in the administrative file, then a transfer to another centre follows. The last of seven possible sanctions is the exclusion for a maximum of one month. In committee, Mrs De Coninck, for example, criticized the fact that asylum seekers should not be excluded, because they would then end up on the streets and they would actually start a push-through operation. I would remind you that the measure was adopted in 2007 by, among other things, Mrs De Coninck's party. Whether an asylum seeker is permanently excluded for one day or one month, the principle remains the same: he or she is no longer entitled to receive care in the traditional reception structures. Mrs De Coninck, I am very happy to hear it, but you approved the concept that you are now fighting, namely the one-month exclusion, in 2007. If you do not agree with the concept of excluding someone because they end up in the street or have to go to the homeless shelter, why did you approve it? Whether it's a day, a month or permanent, it comes down to the same thing, namely that an asylum seeker can't get to Fedasil or other reception structures anymore. I agree that the Justice Department should do its job. I said that in committee too. I would like to say once again that we had a good discussion in committee. I have also noted that no one has voted against it. It is considered that there may be a problem in principle, but there must be opportunities to tackle it. It is obvious that the Justice Department has to act, but if someone is arrested and questioned, in some cases he is not permanently detained and goes back to the reception structure. In some cases, that is not obvious. There have been such incidents in recent months. Anyone being prosecuted is not necessarily detained, which means that an asylum seeker goes back to the shelter, sometimes even in the same room, where he or she has committed the facts, sometimes very serious facts. Then we must find a solution. The asylum seeker in question may be convicted, I hope so, but that will be a long time later. Meanwhile, he or she is still entitled to shelter. A solution must therefore be found, ladies and gentlemen. It is from the practical experience, from the field, from the center directories, from the social assistants that there is a question to expand the penal arsenal, not to abuse it. Of course, this must always be assessed in the light of proportionality. We're taking sanctions. I have also given the figures in committee, but I would like to repeat them here. The figures for the sanctions imposed are as follows: For temporary exclusion imposed by Fedasil, it concerns 62 cases in 2015 and 52 cases in 2016, when the text was submitted to the Chamber. It's gonna be a lot more by now. There is a provision in closed centres, Mrs Pas, for 32 cases in 2016; in 2015 there were four cases and in 2014 there were two cases. It is therefore not the case that we do not take sanctions. We take those sanctions, but that happens with proportionality, file by file. That does not happen as Mr Maingain describes it, with a régime disciplinary. That is absolutely not right. Mr Maingain, it might be a good idea to visit an asylum centre and talk to asylum management to find out that the people who work with their hearts and minds day after day for the proper, correct and warm reception of asylum seekers do not set up disciplinary regimes in our asylum centres. You are committing violence against the truth, and I recommend that you visit some asylum centres and have a conversation with our staff. You'll be surprised. We are expanding the arsenal of possible sanctions, but it will be applied proportionally and it will be done in a conscious, well-considered manner by the Centre Director, in consultation with the social assistant responsible for the assistance, and always with the director of Fedasil's headquarters in Brussels. There is always a right of appeal, so rights are fully guaranteed in this area too. What we are introducing here is not new at all. It exists in France, the Netherlands and Germany. Many European countries have had such a system for a long time. We shall now make that possible. I hope I hardly have to use the arsenal, preferably as little as possible, but in some cases it will be necessary. So it's a push-through? I don't think it's a push-through operation at all. The right to decent care must always be there. If someone is permanently excluded, they can go to the homeless shelter. That's what's happening now. In the previous legislature, from 2007, there have also been one-month exclusions. An asylum seeker who, not for the first time, had been improbably misbehaved, had already received a whole series of sanctions, was totally unmanageable according to the management, and as a sanction received an exclusion of a month, could then also go to the homeless shelter. There were solutions then, too. In fact, there is a very clear additional guarantee in this law that was not included in the Reception Act of 2007. If it goes wrong and if one is looking for shelter but does not find it, for example because all the beds in Brussels are occupied, which of course can happen, especially in winter, when one can prove that one has really done his best to search, then Fedasil will be held responsible for finding a lasting solution. There are therefore additional guarantees in this draft law for misbehaving asylum seekers, who are, for the sake of clarity, perpetrators and not victims. I believe that we have found a very correct balance. Following the opinion of the Council of State, adjustments have been made, which absolutely preserve the balance, to be humane, but also to be strict for people who really abuse our hospitality. That is the common thread of my policy, the coalition agreement and this government. We are soft on the vulnerable, but we also dare to be hard on those who take advantage of our hospitality. I believe that this common thread is shared and supported by the vast majority of public opinion in this country. On your amendments, Mrs Pas, I would like to say two more things. As far as your first amendment to Article 3 is concerned, on the temporary or definitive abolition of the daily allowance, according to the draft I am presenting here, the daily allowance can be set at four weeks. It is a small amount, EUR 7.5 per week or just over EUR 1 per day, but it is a symbolic amount. You ask why a piece of that amount is being taken away. You propose to take everything away, because the amount is already so low. It can also be anything, but it can also be half the weekly or daily allowance, for example. It's up to the board to decide. When, for example, will this measure be used? We intend with this government to organise, from September, fully integrated into all asylum centres, a course on how to deal with women and gender issues. This is already happening in Norway and in many other European countries. That's nothing new. It is already happening in many asylum centres, but it is now a uniformised course in all asylum centres. What if a young asylum seeker says he doesn't want to take that course? Now there is nothing we can do about it. In Norway, day money is held in such a case. I think that is a very good incentive. That is why this was introduced. You say you are in favour of a definitive lifting. It can last up to four weeks, but one can also impose it several times. I understand the essence of your amendment, but I believe that what we are proposing can also be applied in this way by the Centre Directorate, should this really be necessary. So I do not really see a problem in that regard. With your second amendment, you want the definitive exclusion of the right to material aid in the reception structures and the transfer of the person concerned to a closed centre. Your amendment is not purely technical, because it is not possible to give Fedasil the power to decide on detention in a closed centre. I can't imagine that this could be your intention. Moreover, it is already possible to lock asylum seekers who are really misbehaving in closed centres. This is a protective measure that is contained in the Foreigner's Act of 1980 and not in the Reception Act of 2007. This is a matter of making the government available. That procedure is also being applied. Unfortunately, I have had to apply them many times this year. This is happening, too. You say that this system needs to be extended. In your opinion, it should also be the standard procedure. Mrs Smeyers also said this. I have two comments to make. First of all, it's not my place to lock people in closed centres. I'm not God the Father. I think it's a very difficult case for discretion to lock people up. I'm not a judge. I'm just Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I haven't been assigned to lock people up. This in itself is an anachronism in a state of law. As a protective measure, it is sometimes absolutely necessary. This also happened among the previous governments, every year. In certain cases one cannot do otherwise, but I do not feel comfortable with that, not at all! I therefore believe that it would not be a good system to always lock up discretionaryly. The existing system seems much better to me. Your claim is correct that more capacity is needed in the closed centres. I started with 410 places in the closed centers. That was a low score. There had never been so few places in the closed centres in twenty years. There were also 17 000 places in the open centres. Now there are 34 000 places in the open centres and we go to 600 to 620 places in the closed centres. The capacity has thus increased by half over a year and a half. Is that enough? No. My Director-General is right that there should be at least a thousand places in the closed centres. That is necessary. If we want to maintain support for asylum and migration policy in Western Europe, this will only be possible if we can demonstrate that people who are not recognised will actually return. If, in the end, all these people stay here illegally, then there is no more support for the people. Then people just don't believe us anymore. If it is possible, voluntarily, if it is necessary, it means that the closed centres are sometimes needed, and that there is therefore also a need for more capacity in the closed centres. What Mr Roosemont is saying is entirely correct, and I support him. The government still has a great deal of ambition in this respect for the coming years. I certainly feel a great deal of support for this with my fellow Members. You say that someone who behaves badly in an open center should be taken to a closed center by default. At the moment that is not actually possible with 610 places. There are already dozens of people in closed centres, while their procedures are still ongoing. That's gonna cost a lot of money. Those places will then be taken by people whose procedure is still under way, while I would rather use those places for people I can tell. I can't tell those people in procedure, because their procedure is still ongoing. We therefore need to maintain a good balance between places for people who are misbehaving during the procedure if it really is not possible to do so, and enough places for people who have been tried to do so. That's obvious. After all, the government breaks records. In May 168 criminals were sent back to their country of origin, 168! There have been years when that number has not even been reached in a whole year! Now it was 168 in one month and June will be a lot better. Unfortunately, the numbers in March and April were much lower due to the regrettable attack in Zaventem. We are breaking records on the expulsion of criminals from prison, but those people are also going to a closed center. We must therefore also be sure that we reserve sufficient places for them so that we can continue to work on a fair and correct repatriation policy, voluntarily if possible and forced if necessary. However, the group from prison rarely wants to return voluntarily. We must be realistic in this: they do not want to return voluntarily, they all want to stay here, if necessary illegally. They don't care very much. We must therefore send them back. We therefore need room for this. However, filling all the closed asylum centres for illegal immigrants with asylum seekers in procedure is not really a great solution, especially if there are so few places. So we need to create more places. Once again, in my opinion, our proposal is a good one that is balanced. The instruments are being extended in a balanced way, and they are correct in international law. That happens in several countries, by the way. In France, for example, this has been possible for a long time, with guarantees both for those who are punished and for our society. In the end, it is particularly important and even essential that we protect our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u117	Mr President, Secretary of State, the length of your answer is equal to your unease. Indeed, you are aware that the mechanism you are putting in place will not be able to answer all the questions raised in committee, which have been recalled today. In committee, you have been very critical of justice. I would remind you that you said that justice was not moving forward fast enough and that, in doing so, we could no longer proceed in the same way with regard to reception centres. I recognize that on the occasion of your reply, you stated that you were working with justice. But still it is that, initially – as you recalled here today – you said that although justice is doing its job, it is impossible to wait and leave the reception centres in their current situation, and that further action is needed. The purpose of the measure you propose is to permanently exclude persons who have committed serious acts of violence or acts of a sexual nature from reception. You said that the principle had been established under the previous government. But what will happen to these people? Once a person has been permanently excluded, where will they end up? You have cited figures on refoulement in closed centres. You explained to us that justice was doing its job. But today, you're going to put people on the street. In this regard, you did not provide any answers. In committee, we have already had an exchange on this issue. On that occasion, you had considered reintegration and committed yourself to a reintegration plan for those who could be reintegrated. In short, the measure you are proposing does not solve the problem. The proof of this is that you personally acknowledged it on the occasion of incomplete explanations. I expect you, Mr Secretary of State, to explain to us as soon as possible how to reintegrate a number of excluded persons into the reception centres, as you undertook in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u118	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to comment on some of the points raised. The problem is indeed not new. We also warned that the number of incidents would increase if the number of asylum seekers you are beginning to receive here also increased dramatically. You could therefore have provided for measures to be taken in this regard. You say that I would have said that you are not taking sanctions. Of course, I did not say that, but you are taking sanctions. My reproach is, however, that they are not strict enough. If the perpetrators, as you yourself rightly call them, are to be excluded from the asylum centre in the event of sufficiently serious cases of physical or sexual violence, then they are indeed perpetrators for whom a protective measure is necessary. If they pose a serious threat to the reception structure, they also pose a serious threat to society. I continue to rely on the principle that they belong in a closed center. You don't have enough capacity there. For the past two years, you have agreed that there is too little capacity. You say there are 110 places now and there are many more to come. However, you are now at the level of 2007, when you from the opposition accused Wathelet that this was far too low a capacity to pursue a decent return policy. Then the influx wasn't as big as today. So why not a separate closed center? As far as we are concerned, these perpetrators, as you rightly call them, bite the hand that feeds them. They are a serious danger and must end up in a closed centre, as far as we are concerned, also with repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u119	I can understand that Mr Francken thinks that we were always in the government, but that was not the case in 2007, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u120	Mrs De Coninck, to pick that up directly, the introduction of temporary exclusion was not in 2007 but in December 2009. In 2009, you were in the government. It wasn't until 2010? I will be pleased to see how you voted on this point. Anyway, Mrs. Pas, you're talking about 110 places, but there were 410 places when I started, and now 610. You say this is as much as under Wathelet. Yes, but I also started with much less than Wathelet. We have increased the capacity by 50% and we will increase that capacity even further. She's going up, she's going up big. At a year and a half 50% in the closed centres has never happened. The capacity has always gone down over the last 15 years. Again, is this enough? No, but the capacity goes up and will continue to go up, you can be sure of that. By the way, I have received an additional 30 million for this policy, among other things. Mr Kir, you are talking about reintegration. When a person is recognised as an asylum seeker, he enters the normal circuit and can begin his reintegration anyway. If he is permanently excluded during the procedure, it will indeed be part of the homeless shelter. If he doesn't find anything and can prove he's been looking for it, Fedasil will still have to find a solution. I said that in committee too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u121	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u122	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1839/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1839/4) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u123	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u124	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 3. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u125	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u126	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open Mr Luykx, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u127	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1815/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1815/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u129	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Flahaux, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u130	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1822/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1822/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Capoen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u133	Mr President, Minister, our group welcomes and supports the measures you will take to streamline the Belgian Development Cooperation Act with the policy you wish to pursue. You are clearly taking steps towards a more integrated operation. Among other things, the CSFs are a useful tool in our view; they can promote coordination and synergy within development cooperation. However, I have also made a number of comments in committee, and on behalf of my group I shall put them to the House. Firstly, the draft law makes no clear distinction between the umbrella and the federation in non-governmental cooperation. According to Article 11, domes have an equally important role as spokesperson for members and as an interlocutor for policy, as are federations. So they are equal in that. However, in Article 13, this task is not defined for the domes in the definition of both dome and federation. So it is not very clear what the function of both organisations is. There is an overlap and, in fact, both are subsidised. We regret that the draft law did not clarify it. Secondly, we are very pleased that institutional actors are given greater recognition and the opportunity to organise themselves in a federation, for which they may be able to use the necessary resources. However, coupled with my previous point, namely the lack of clarity and the overlap between the umbrella and the federation, this leads to the institutional actors there being in a somewhat unfavourable position in terms of communication to you and policy. This also applies in the future, when the programmes are to be submitted within the CSFs by the end of the year. They are actually only represented in one organisation, if they were already to set it up. After all, in the past there was no federation or umbrella for the institutional actors. Now there is the possibility that they will create a federation, but then they will only have one channel, while the CMOs have two channels, the dome and the federation. President: André Frédéric, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u134	This has grown historically, but we hope that it will become clearer in the future. The institutional actors, the Tropical Institute and the universities, should be given the same opportunity as the CMOs. Finally, in your explanatory statement to the law, you say that it also involves a broadening operation. We have already noticed this, as I said, particularly in the area of institutional actors. The definition of civil society organisation is also sufficiently broad. Several actors can potentially gain recognition. Not everyone can apply for subsidies automatically, but that is not a problem. Nevertheless, we do not think that widening is going far enough, as I said in committee. You do not create scope for cooperation with actors pursuing objectives within international cooperation, but who do not want to use subsidies. Some non-profit organisations, for example, deliberately do not use subsidies on principle because they want to stand on their own feet, but nevertheless want to be developmental. The organisation's activity may also be a reason not to apply for subsidies, such as companies and SMEs, which cannot benefit from subsidies, but which are now also excluded. In your reply to my comments, you indicated that you want to cooperate as much as possible with private organisations in the future. Well, I am curious whether and how this cooperation will take place, because there is not really a legal basis for that. It therefore seems logical to me, in the context of the reforms and the broadening that you are proposing, that there should be a legal framework or at least a procedure to facilitate cooperation between public authorities and non-subsidised ANGS. Ultimately, the result and the impact on the ground are more important than who realized it. There are still some reforms in development cooperation. We are in a happy expectation, if I may say so, to cooperate in this. You can count on our support to continue this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u135	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text has already given you the opportunity to say this in committee, you have decided to play a dual role. First, that of an incendiary, to better play, then, the role of the firefighter. The fire was such that the majority even had to ask for urgency for this bill. You'll ask me why I'm using this metaphor. For with your reforms, Minister, you have literally plunged into a legal vacuum of many actors in non-governmental cooperation. And you yourself, in committee, acknowledged that the current situation was uncomfortable. Indeed, in 2015, you began a reform of the financing of non-governmental cooperation and launched, as early as 2016, a screening to update the accreditations of NGOs and other non-governmental cooperation actors with access to public funding. Within this framework, these actors must introduce their programmes by September of this year. These programmes must now refer to common strategic frameworks – a new system introduced in April 2016 – before being finally appreciated by your administration in June. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the whole of this new process takes place without actually adopting the legal framework for reform. That's why today's haste prevails. A rush that is far from over, since the new decrees still have to be adopted. This means that actors in non-governmental cooperation have had to settle common strategic frameworks that will have to be appreciated without knowing the exact legal framework. My colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius has already asked you many questions about this legal vacuum and the lack of precision of the draft before us today. Moreover, in its opinion, the Council of State was able to stress, on many occasions, the vagueness surrounding several concepts. This legal vacuum worries us all the more because we know the projects that will have to arrive soon on our benches. Let us remember, however, that the government agreement and your general policy note promised concerted reforms with the actors concerned and that the time and means would be given to them to lead the changes. We are far from it! Finally, let us remember that the previous framework of the 2013 law had been widely welcomed and that your party had taken part in this reform. The urgency with which this majority has once again decided to displace the sector is all the more curious. We look forward to receiving an answer to a written question from our group to see which actors will or will not retain their accreditation following screening and their linguistic role. Let us be honest, Minister, these reforms are certainly more justified by a policy of austerity than by a genuine search to improve the impact on the ground of humanitarian programmes or administrative simplification. Without wanting to repeat the whole debate in committee, my group will therefore abstain from this text to protest the way in which all this has been organised. Finally, Mr Minister, my group will pay particular attention to future orders and, above all, to consultation with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will also be quite brief. I would simply like to confirm in a few words, Mr Minister, that the MR Group will vote, as it did in committee, on the draft law on Belgian development cooperation, in particular on non-governmental cooperation, which, together with governmental and multilateral cooperation, represents some EUR 250 million a year from Belgian development cooperation. This cooperation is implemented by NGOs, trade unions or universities. It is this civil nature that gives it an autonomous right of initiative that has proved to be very interesting for cooperation and for its partners. Mr Minister, our group has particularly appreciated the long and very precise answer that you have given in committee. We too will be attentive – perhaps you can give some information – to the question of the timing of the royal decrees that will complete the legal framework. Colleagues, in conclusion, it is true that, for several years, successive Belgian governments, from Charles Michel to Jean-Pascal Labelle, have endeavoured to strengthen the effectiveness of non-governmental cooperation. It is this will that you will realize and strengthen, Minister, by reducing the fragmentation of interventions, by ensuring policy coherence. In addition, you are continuing the administrative simplification which is necessary for the right of autonomous initiative of non-governmental cooperation. You have also taken care – an extremely important element in our view – to consult with the sector. This text, which was almost unanimously adopted in committee, reflects our government's humanitarian commitment, and we will therefore vote for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u137	Thank you, Mr. Miller, for the conciseness of the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u138	Minister, the amendment of the Belgian Development Cooperation Act aims to modernise non-governmental cooperation in the context of increased cooperation, complementarity and synergy. No sensible person can actually oppose this, especially since the amendment is proposed in consultation with the sectors concerned and is also supported. Our group welcomes the fact that this is in line with the government agreement and that you, Minister, fully recognise the autonomy of NGOs and thus their specific added value in developing countries. The change in the law has had a lot of feet in the earth. There has been a legal gap for some time with regard to the recognition and subsidy of NGOs. Last summer, after fruitful consultations with the NGOs, you were able to conclude a gentlemen's agreement. The transition to the draft law has taken a little too long, so that NGOs have had to work in a legal vacuum. They had to create common strategic frameworks without knowing whether they would be recognised as NGOs. There are also NGOs today that have not been recognised and have nevertheless had to create a common strategic framework. We regret this, but we also understand that the reform, which was rather complex, has taken a long time. The royal decrees must be passed much more quickly. We will also be following this closely, so that the legal gap, which has been going on for some time now, will be removed very quickly. It also shows some goodwill with regard to their commitment and their willingness to engage in dialogue and consultation that these royal decisions follow very quickly. We support the draft law, because it aims to increase the efficiency of development cooperation in the field, and that is absolutely necessary, especially because it has been done by mutual agreement and with respect for the autonomy and specificity of non-governmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u139	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the central objective of the proposed draft law is to increase efficiency and efficiency in non-governmental cooperation. There are two important principles in development cooperation. The great savings have made the resources scarce. It is therefore necessary to spend them well. My group is not against a reform of our development cooperation. He can do better than that. The structures must also be taken into account. However, the administrative burden should not be increased. In view of the scarce resources they receive, NGOs want their resources and, above all, their human resources to be used for projects on the ground rather than for administration. We believe that there is a contradiction in the draft law on this point. On the one hand, administrative simplification is promised, and on the other hand, the revision obliges them to spend exactly more time in paperwork, inter alia because they have to work with the instrument of the common strategic frameworks. An umpteenth layer is being created in the development sector. Rather than working on development, you actually ask the NGOs to deliver even more paperwork. My group's main question is whether the reform will indeed contribute to efficient development cooperation. We are not convinced of that. We are particularly concerned that the reform will lead to more chaos and paperwork for the sector. Finally, Minister, I am talking about the implementation of the draft law. There will be two royal implementing decisions, one on financing the funding of non-governmental cooperation actors, and one on the maximum number of common strategic frameworks. We're worried. You have had discussions with the NGOs, but there are also worrying voices among those NGOs. In particular, the royal decisions will determine the impact of the draft law on the sector. We do not yet know the content of this. The NGOs haven't done it yet. Mr Minister, as long as the content of these royal decrees is not known, we cannot support the draft law. That is why my group will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly say that I welcome the outcome of this text. This was the result of a long work that had begun under the previous legislature. It is also the result of a great deal of consultation with the sector, which I welcome. Clearly, he may be able to inspire other members of his government in terms of consultation. It is the result of a long work, of good consultation. The various actors in development cooperation, NGOs in any case, have been closely involved in this work. These NGOs themselves called for reform. It seems to us that this reform is in the right direction: seeking greater efficiency, complementarity, coherence in the sector through mechanisms that allow synergies and collaborations between NGOs, particularly in the context of their requests for funding, which we welcome. On the other hand, as other colleagues have already pointed out, the main questions raised by civil society organisations concerning the maintenance of their autonomy have received satisfactory answers. I think it was important and useful that they could maintain their autonomy. You have been quite clear in this area. Finally, I would just like to say that you have acknowledged that significant delays have been imposed on NGOs in implementing their projects as part of the 2017-2022 programme cycle. I hope we can make up for this delay. NGOs need to be reassured in this area and now be able to implement their projects without further delay. I simply regret that your budget has decreased so much during this Parliament. This is still very bad news for cooperation in general. Indeed, your budget has decreased by 21%, or almost 1 billion euros, in 5 years. That reform had been made imperative, particularly because of budget cuts, which was regrettable. Nevertheless, of course, we will be voting for this law, which is in the right direction. Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u141	Mr President, although we support the need to finally have a legal framework for development cooperation and, we recognize, there are some points that we can support in this project, we will still oppose it, for several reasons that I will very quickly explain to you. First of all, we do not believe that the reduction in the number of recognized NGOs, intended for the sake of efficiency by the government, is appropriate. Diversity is the wealth of this sector and, in order to increase efficiency, we must first and foremost break out of the austerity framework in which this government plunges development cooperation. All these NGOs must be given the means to function properly. Furthermore, we believe that the principle of integrated policy conceals an attempt to instrumentalise the NGO sector. Nor do we agree with this logic of the government to want to reduce the number of countries where Belgian cooperation is active, especially since the minister has at the head of linking development cooperation policy to Belgium's economic and commercial interests. We also question the time and means that all these reforms required and the logic followed by the very expensive screening of NGOs by private study offices such as Deloitte. It is the basis of this project to find lame solutions to austerity policy. It is therefore regrettable that the development cooperation budget has reached a level. This budget, instead of approaching the 0.7% target, is moving away from it. In 2015, we stood at 0.42%, while in 2010 we were still at 0.64%. Compared to countries such as Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which are above 0.7%, Belgium is very pale in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you the guidelines for this reform, which aims to increase concentration and avoid the fragmentation of resources. The aim is therefore to achieve greater coordination of efforts on the ground and administrative simplification. I would like to respond to that, Mrs Pehlivan, because you say that the administration is getting heavier. That's not true. The number of grant instruments has been reduced. That is therefore a simplification. There is a better definition of the categories of the different non-governmental actors, which means that relations are more standardised and less documented. Due to the existence of CSFs, less information is required. A more transversal approach to the evaluation work of the programmes by the administration also makes it much easier. Mr Dallemagne has described it well, this reform has taken place at the request of the sector. Indeed, the latter had found that, because of domestic law, the situation was very complex and that there was no way of organising the necessary totesing. The consultation with the sector was almost daily. In total, more than 30 consultation meetings were held, as our approach involved legal changes; in the meantime, the actors had to introduce their programme. The number of consultations led us to call for urgency. As far as the KBJVs are concerned, there are indeed two KBJVs to be taken. Those KBs have also been consulted with the sector. So it cannot be said that these two KBs are still hanging in the air or could be surprises. They were also consulted with the sector last week. As soon as the law comes into force, we'll take those KBs. I'm accused of having lit the fire to play fire later. In fact, that is not correct. One might say that the fire was already under way, but we are not going to get into this controversy. It is the sector itself that has asked to be able to change the law. We have taken these steps together with the sector. We reached an agreement last summer, which we tried to translate at legislative level as quickly as possible. Mrs Bellens, as regards the distinction between dome and federation, we also discussed this in committee. A federation only represents recognised organisations, whereas a umbrella is actually a member organisation with members focusing on the North-South problem. A mistake in the draft law led to some ambiguity in this respect, but we have improved it. I come to the broadening of cooperation with organisations that do not receive subsidies. I have already said that I have a great deal of respect for organisations that choose not to apply for subsidies, but it is obviously difficult to force them to participate in a concert, since they do not work with public funds. It seems logical to me to ask organisations that receive public funds to work in a more coordinated way. If organisations that do not receive public funds participate in this, this is very good, but it is impossible to force them, because they actually work entirely on their own initiative. I would like to conclude by thanking everyone who has worked very creatively and constructively. I would also like to thank the sector, because this has not been an easy exercise at all. Through consultation and urgency, we will certainly succeed in ensuring that these organisations will receive their funding for the next five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u143	Mr President, earlier in my speech, I recalled the work of several Development Cooperation Ministers and I forgot to say that my party president also managed Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u144	Important precision! Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u145	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1818/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1818/4) The draft law contains 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u146	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u147	I propose that the draft law (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Income Tax Code for 1992 should be able to deduct full tax contributions for legal aid, No. 677/1, to be referred to the Committee on Justice in order to add it to the draft law amending the Civil Code with regard to legal assistance, No. 1819/1. I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice the proposal for a law (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to allow the total deductibility of "legal protection" insurance premiums, No. 677/1, in order to attach it to the draft law amending the Judicial Code with regard to legal aid, No. 1819/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u148	At the request of the authors, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz) on Belgium's participation in the international coalition against IS in Iraq and in Syria, No. 1577/1, refer to the United Commissions for Defence and for External Relations. At the request of the sponsors, I propose that you refer the motion for a resolution (MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz) concerning Belgium's participation in the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq and Syria, No. 1577/1. This proposal was previously sent to the External Relations Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u149	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the proposal for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel cs) on the NATO Summit of Heads of State or Government of 8 and 9 July 2016 in Warsaw, No. 1881/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u150	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Peter Luykx) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo, No. 1887/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u151	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel et al.) on the summit of Heads of State and Government of NATO countries to be held on 8 and 9 July 2016 in Warsaw, No. 1881/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u152	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof and Sarah Claerhout and Mr Peter Luykx) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, No. 1887/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u153	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karolien Grosemans cs) on the deployment of the Belgian Defence Office against the Islamic State (IS or DAESH) in Iraq and in Syria, No. 1883/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u154	I also propose that you take into consideration the motion for a resolution (Ms. Karolien Grosemans et al.) on the Belgian Defence's commitment against ISIS (EI or DAECH) in Iraq and Syria, No. 1883/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u155	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u156	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 1875/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the draft programme law, No. 1875/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. Before that, we listen to the motivation of the Budget Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u157	Mr. Chair, this is the program bill that includes measures that were decided during the budget conclave and are due to come into force on July 1, 2016, which is why we are calling for urgency. The Chair: Thank you, Minister. Those who support urgency must now stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u158	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on May 31, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission on 31 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 140/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Sevastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mr Peter Buysrogge. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 140/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Sébastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karolien Grosemans and by Mr Peter Buysrogge. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u159	Yes 81 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u160	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on May 31, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission on 31 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 145/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Sevastian Pirlot; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karolien Grosemans and by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge et Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 145/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Sébastian Pirlot; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karolien Grosemans and by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u161	Mr. Chairman, the purpose of this motion is:- to stop requisitioning military personnel for tasks that are neither foreign operations nor assistance to the Nation; - to provide sufficient financial resources to enable the State to carry out its public service tasks with the competent and trained staff of each department for that purpose. The chronic underfunding of the Regal services of the Interior, Justice and Defence cannot be masked indefinitely by poor artifice; - with regard to the military framework, to adopt a clear legal framework to ensure the smooth running of the Vigilant Guardian mission to ensure compliance with the law in order to ensure the physical and legal security of the military themselves. I would point out in passing that several members of the majority shared this concern for legal certainty. I can only be surprised by the stubbornness of the Vandeput and Jambon Ministers to not solve this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u162	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u163	Yes 82 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u164	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 20. (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Karin Jiroflée on Article 20. (1838/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on amendment No. 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 60/1(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 60/1(n). (1838/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 44 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 60/2(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 60/2(n). (1838/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Mag de uitslag van de vorige steming ook gelde n for this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u165	Mr President, I should like to point out that, for this amendment and all the others by Mrs Fonck, we are going to abstain, because we trust the minister in the debate she is going to have in the committee. So this is not a rejection of the amendments, but an expectation of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u166	Mr President, I was thinking of doing this at the end, and perhaps I am making a mistake against the Rules of Procedure. I would like to make it clear that we are in favour of many of Mrs Fonck's amendments, but we believe that they deserve a good discussion, just like this subject, and therefore should not be discussed quickly as amendments to the various provisions of the law. In addition, I agree with Mr Senesael that it was clearly agreed in the Committee on Health that this matter should be discussed where it belongs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u167	Mrs. Jiroflée, your hunch was completely correct. In principle, there are no explanations of vote in the vote on amendments but passonsons. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[11]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 62(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 62(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u168	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 63(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 63(n). (1838/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[14]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert a chapter 4 (n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert a Chapter 4(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 64(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 64(n). (1838/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 13 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u170	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 65(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 65(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u171	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 66(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 66(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u172	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 67(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 67(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u173	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 68(n). (1838/7) Vote on amendment No. 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 68(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u174	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 69(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 69(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u175	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 70(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 70(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u176	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 71(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 71(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u177	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 72(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 72(n). (1838/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is v alable for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u178	Mr President, we are going to vote in the same way on Amendment No 14, but I would like to repeat to Mrs Fonck that, like several colleagues, I spoke earlier in the debate on the bill. The purpose of our speech was to point out that in committee – Mrs Wilmès was present, she will be able to testify – the adoption of measures aimed at transposing the European directive against tobacco consumption and trade is being implemented. The Minister committed herself to working on the texts of parliamentarians tabled in the Committee on Public Health before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you of the Rules of Procedure. Normally there is no explanation of vote on the amendments, but in fairness, I give the floor to Mrs Fonck for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u180	We're even limited by time now! Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues, when the majority chooses to make a melting-pot bill with various provisions to discreetly pass a few articles on the transposition of the European tobacco directive, you will still have understood that the majority, through this, does not want to make it a real major debate for the fight against tobacco. The only solution is then to submit amendments. That's why I did it. I'll keep fighting! I hope that you will not give in to the tobacco lobby or at least not too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u181	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 13 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on amendment No. 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 73(n). (1838/7) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 73(n). (1838/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 82 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1838/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1838/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u183	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 3. (1839/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 3. (1839/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 134 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 3. (1839/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 3. (1839/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? [[Oui]] Mag de uitslag van de vorige steming ook Is this a vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u184	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 82 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1839/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1839/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1815/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1815/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Luk Van Biesen voted from the seat of Mrs Nele Lijnen, absent.)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u187	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1822/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1822/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 103 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1818/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1818/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-09-54-plenair-ip114x.u189	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 16 June 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 16 June 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday 16 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
