ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. For our Committee on the Economy, we are inaugurating this new infrastructure, this Mercator Hall in this case. I find that Mercator is a good reference for scientific policy questions. Madam Secretary of State, I hope Mercator will bring you wisdom in the conduct of our country's scientific policy. We are now starting our series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a little over a year ago, I was asking your counterpart in charge of the environment, Mrs Marghem, about the necessary establishment of a climate centre of excellence for Belgium. As it recognized at the time, there is a real need for access to objective, consistent and reliable climate information in order to better understand and understand future risks, as a sound knowledge base is essential to support efforts to combat climate change and to guide decision-making. It is clear that a climate centre of excellence could fulfil this role by providing a sound scientific basis for supporting climate policies, informing the various economic or institutional actors and valuing the expertise available, particularly at the international level, as is the case in France, Great Britain or Austria, for example. In her reply, Ms Marghem also informed me that a federal reference centre of climate expertise was one of the 34 measures proposed in the draft federal plan "adaptation to climate change" which she intended to "adopt as soon as possible". At the time, the minister told me that a preparatory study for the establishment of this centre, carried out on the initiative of the Science Policy FPS, was being finalized. A few weeks ago, while I was asking her again about the subject in order to take stock of the progress achieved, Minister Marghem meant to me that no major progress had been made on the subject, that the results of the study in question had not been communicated to her and that the establishment of such a centre of excellence was no longer a priority but merely an eventuality. Madam Secretary of State, with regard to the preparatory study to which I have just referred, the minister advised me to question you, what I am doing, in order to get to know the results of this study. Can you confirm to me that the study has been diligent and, if so, can you provide us with an update on its findings? Furthermore, Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us whether the creation of a climate centre of excellence is still on the agenda or whether the project has been abandoned? So can you tell us the next steps in its implementation, or the reasons for such a reversal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the IASB climate centre, I can tell you that the results of the study entitled "Guy Brasseur Study" are now available. The study was presented to my firm by the three federal science institutions on the Uccle Plateau and BELSPO. At the end of the presentation, a large number of relevant questions remained to be answered by the institutions concerned. To give you an idea of the remaining problems, here are some questions that we have a right to ask ourselves. What about the European dimension? What about the powers of the states? To what extent should the Federated States be involved? What about the European Commission's Copernicus initiative? What about, for example, the European Directive 2013/37/EU on the reuse of public information and the Belgian implementation of this Directive? What about different aspects? For example, is biodiversity included or not included? In the proposal that is now on the table, the climate centre would have a recurring cost ranging from €0.5 million per year to €0.75 million per year, just for initial development and coordination costs. In view of the existing ambitions, this would be rather an undervaluation. And in the current budgetary context, even this undervaluation is not feasible. We are now in autumn 2016 and I still do not have an answer to these questions. This shows that the problem is much more complex than we thought. The creation of a federal climate centre is certainly not for tomorrow. Unfortunately, we must be realistic. The empowerment of FSEs can be a solution to the extent that they can define their initiatives and priorities on their own, more than today, in the context of their legal missions and budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your response. They have the merit of being clear. In a polite way, you tell us that this centre is not for tomorrow and that we must remain realistic. You have, in fact, just buried this climate centre of excellence, when, I would remind you, it was one of your priorities for this legislature and, moreover, the objectives it had to achieve had been well defined. In addition, it allowed precisely this consistency and reliability of information to be shared between economic actors and... (...) (...) even if you have been waiting for relevant questions that you have asked. Frankly, when we talk about a budget of half a million euros, depending on the capacity of the information that could be irrigated and the quality of that information that could be developed, it did not seem to me, at this stage, to be an oversized budget. Therefore, I bitterly regret that this centre of excellence cannot be established, at least not immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, the press has recently echoed a surprising agreement between the Belgian State and the European Parliament for the transfer to the European Parliament of part of the house of the 19th century sculptor Antoine Wiertz, located in Brussels. Although the house and the garden are not part of the museum itself, they are still part of the Belgian federal heritage. There had also been a time to restore this heritage, which is – I confess – in a pitiful state. The transfer of a historic state property raises fundamental questions and legitimate concerns about the government's management of its national heritage. Is it enough now that the Belgian State is no longer in a financial position to exploit a property to get rid of it? The question has the merit of being asked. All the more so, on the one hand, when it is the Belgian government itself that organises its financial incapacity by drastically reducing the budgets allocated to the federal culture and to the Régie des Bâtiments and, on the other hand, when we know your opinion on the federal competences in cultural matters, which you consider to be residual and a residual of the past. Thus, how can we not fear that this transfer will be the first of a long list, since many federal scientific institutions are now facing savings that are undermining their functioning? Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you the following questions. Have you been consulted in the implementation of this agreement? If so, does the assignment take into account museum specificities? What are the conditions for this agreement? Have the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, on which the Wiertz Museum depends, been consulted on this assignment? More generally, do you not consider that the role of the State is to protect its historical heritage rather than to rid itself of it? What convention did you have with the European Union? What use do you reserve for this splendid building, and what type of occupation? Furthermore, Madam Secretary of State, I have tabled a question on the same subject, and on the opening of the public park, to the attention of your colleague Jambon. However, you are not responsible for the last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, as my colleague Lalieux points out, the press has reported that the European Parliament has obtained the agreement of our government to extend its premises and to take possession, for the sum of a symbolic euro, of the property classified since 1977, currently housing the Antoine Wiertz Museum and located in the commune of Ixelles. If I believe the articles of which I was able to read, an agreement would have been sealed so that the museum collections, owned by the federal state, could continue to be exposed to the public in their current location, namely the artist's workshop and garden, by reducing the space concerned. For their part, the services of the European Parliament would be housed in unoccupied premises. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm this information and, if necessary, provide us with more details about this agreement? What exactly are the decisions made regarding the accommodation and accessibility of federal collections? What is the planned schedule for this real estate operation with your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments? What is the status of the consultations on this matter with the ixelloese municipal authorities? The garden adjacent to the museum is currently closed to the public. This situation is obviously damaging in that it is a beautiful green area in the town of Ixelles. Does the proposed operation provide for the opening of this garden, which could be enjoyed by as many as possible? I think a lot of citizens and visitors would like to be able to walk around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u7	Madam, sir, thank you for your question. (...) the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium, the Régie des Bâtiments, the European Parliament and the Minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. The aim is to conclude an emphyteotic lease after which the European Parliament, in exchange for a symbolic euro, would take over the renovation and maintenance of the Wiertz Museum while continuing to guarantee access to the collection. In any case, the garden is also part of the renovation file so that it can be opened to the public. The statement of intent is here. We are now awaiting a proposal for a convention. But for the specific details of this case, I would also refer you to the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u8	Mr President, I am not going to thank the Secretary of State for her answer, which is not one. This once again shows her concern for these federal political institutions and museums. It's like, "Go to my colleague and I don't care what happens to this museum." I thought these collections were totally remarkable. They deserve to be seen by many people. This museum deserves to be renovated. I understand that she does not even know what is in the convention in relation to the opening, in relation to the collections or even in relation to the opening of the public garden. I regret it, as is its management of museums today! Mr Jambon was asked a question. I hope he can tell us a little more. Once again, this federal state sells the property belonging to it with a lot of "jemenfoutism", if I may say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, I have taken note of the element concerning the garden, which was well concerned by the convention and which can be opened to the public, which I welcome. For the rest of the questions I have put to you, I will also put a question to the Minister of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr Jambon. I hope I can get more information. As Mrs Lalieux said, this museum, which is located in my commune, deserves to be highlighted. I will come back to Minister Jambon for all the other aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u10	As chairman of the committee, I am obviously not opposed to colleagues who wish to visit a museum. We can organize the thing if we feel there is an interest in knowing a particular tool of our culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u11	Mr President, I thank Mrs Cassart-Mailleux for her elegant proposal to give me her place so that I may ask the Secretary of State about the Princess Elisabeth polar station. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall concentrate on the inquiry, even if I have attached an oral question to it. I will not recall what we all know, namely that the polar station in question should be a flagship for Belgium both because it does not generate any broadcasts, and because it highlights scientific research. I am thinking in particular of the climate issue, which was the subject of Mr Senesael's first question - which I hope will join us. No one today or tomorrow questions the great interest of this station for our country, but also for the cause of Antarctica. I would like to recall that Belgium is a party to the Antarctic Treaty – it has even played a pioneering role there. We know how urgent it is to deal with these issues that concern our planet. After this little preamble, and while welcoming the return of Mr Senesael, I would like to recall that we have observed for many months this sterile quarrel, Madam Secretary of State, between your firm – which has been obstinate and persists in doing so – and the International Polar Foundation. During this period, we wondered where you really wanted to land, in any case obviously not on the ice. On 27 October last, in the plenary of the House, it was with great concern that we were a few parliamentarians, including my colleagues Senesael and Dallemagne, who had to observe your obstinacy and that of the government, which you led after you, to go down without worrying about court decisions. Seeing you do everything possible to oust the International Polar Foundation and, in particular, Mr Alain Hubert, even if he ignores decisions of the Council of State and other bodies, has left us groggy. Madam Secretary of State, while we were questioning you in the House, the Council of State, on the same day, almost at the same time, issued a judgment. This is judgment No 236.304. The Council of State has formally condemned the State and therefore yourself. He said: "The execution of the decision to organise during the 2016/2017 session a maintenance mission of the polar station Princess Elisabeth is suspended". The same day that the Council of State issued this ruling – and this date is very important in the history of this conflict – there was our inquiry in the House. You are going to say that parliamentarians who are questioning are not much of a thing. And you were going to train the government that morning to decide, with the Defense, to send our troops not to the polar station but to Cape Town. I know it's the season of the big sea cruises. They arrived in Cape Town where they stayed. I don't know if they're still here and we still have news. In any case, our troops were blocked in Cape Town. That day, it wasn't the Cape of Good Hope anyway. On Thursday, 27 October, there is the House, the Council of State and the Council of Ministers. And, Madam Secretary of State, there's a big malaise. This judgment formally condemns the State. The Council of State suspended this expedition prepared with the help of the Defence. The preparation of this expedition, it must be recognized when the history is re-established, was a programmed failure because executed in secret, snobbing the previous decision of the Council of State (September 26) and was also surrounded by dishonest lies. I weigh my words, I'm not the kind of person who uses random words. Madam Secretary of State, the state lawyers went to the Council of State to declare that there was no decision to send the army to Antarctica when an earlier framework agreement was signed between your cabinet and the Defence. Your lawyers tell the Council of State something that is not true that there was no framework agreement with the Defence. For the second time, the Council of State recalls that, according to the law and the status of co-owner of the station, only the Polar Secretariat and the Polar Foundation are authorized to organize and manage shipments to the station. The Belgian military were therefore blocked in the Cape of "Mauvaise" Hope where they were, in part, on the departure to the polar station. Madam Secretary of State, the responsibility of your office and yours is being put to great test. How will you react? Will you accept this decision of justice, which is still, in a rule of law, the least of all things. I'm even surprised to have to ask you the question. Are you going to work on a long-term solution? Are you going to be stubborn? I dare not imagine a case which would show the case you are making of the rule of law and which would put you personally in question. But the next thing is the urgency of appointing the members of the Polar Secretariat's Strategic Board, which you have not yet done. Indeed, this blocking situation prevented the Secretariat from functioning. As a result, you are putting at risk the members of the IPF who are present at the base and the scientists who are brought to join them, who do not have the codes to manage the station properly. We're here! We're here! These are security issues. In addition, by refusing to provide the IPF with the means to make urgent and necessary repairs, you are endangering the station's integrity. Beyond the people, there's the station. We know there's already some damage. On the other hand, the more this file moves forward, Madam Secretary of State, the more questions arise. Under what status were the five experts, most of whom came from the SPRL AntarcticiQ, hired to accompany this mission today late joint BELSPO-National Defence? What status? They're talking about CDI. I am told of a lack of legitimacy in engagement, of publicity for engagement. I am also told of a budget, Madam Secretary of State, of 500,000 euros. I repeat 500,000 euros in the BELSPO budget. Is that correct? Have the advertising rules been respected for the undertaking? Finally, how much has the State already been costed by this untimely legal battle? Beyond form, we call for the reopening – and it is even more important, Madam Secretary of State – of a genuine dialogue between the parties to get out of this pathetic Antarctic polar which involves an internationally recognized flagship of Belgium and, moreover, an international centre for climate change research. Antarctica, Madam Secretary of State, is a slippery terrain, as we know. But by surfing on court decisions, you'll end up failing to get up, leading the entire government into your fall. Thank you for the answer you will probably give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, in recent months, the polar station Princess Elisabeth, whose importance - and I can tell you that I also recognize it - for the scientific research and international influence of Belgium, has been regularly on the news as a result of a dispute between Mr Alain Hubert and the International Polar Foundation (IPF) and BELSPO. There was first, last year, a report from the Finance Inspectorate, which identified budgetary manipulations in the head of the IPF. Then you decided to organise the Polar Campaign last winter, a decision which Mr Hubert protested before the Brussels Court of First Instance. The latter, however, gave you reason, by prohibiting Mr. Hubert from going to the Princess Elisabeth polar station. Last September, however, the Council of State agreed with the International Polar Foundation by suspending the Royal Decree on the Management Rules of the Polar Secretariat. You then stated that you did not want to comply with it in order not to hinder the Belgian mission which would begin a few weeks later. On 27 October, however, the Conseil d'État suspended the execution of the maintenance mission for the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station. Thus, while our soldiers were on their way to Antarctica, they found themselves blocked in Cape Town, unable to set foot on the ice. This decision of the Council of State was made following the filing of an appeal by the International Polar Foundation. Madam Secretary of State, can you take stock with us of the legal situation of the polar station? What are the consequences of the suspension, by the Council of State, of the royal decree excluding the International Polar Foundation and its president of the management of the site? Is the 2016-17 campaign under threat? What are the different options currently under consideration to remedy this situation? What is the status of each person's rights and duties, namely the Belgian State on the one hand and the International Polar Foundation on the other? I would also like to make a supplementary comment. I listened to Mr Cheron's inquiry, who spoke to you about an agenda: the different dates of the Council of State, the agreements you have with the soldiers who had to leave, the matches of dates... I would like to have your opinion and your reaction to this agenda. Many questions have already been asked, but I wanted to take stock for my group. I'll pay attention to the answers you'll give. This dossier, which concerns a Belgian flagship, is important. I therefore advocate dialogue and consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my colleague Mr Cheron has already made a very thorough assessment of the problem. I will come back to two more specific points. Following a ruling of 27 October 2016, the Council of State suspended your decision to send the army in order to carry out the maintenance and maintenance mission of the Princess Elisabeth polar station. This umpteenth episode of the judicial dispute that puts you at risk with the Council of State as well as recent revelations in the press raise several questions. On the one hand, as regards the five experts hired last year by BELSPO as operators of the polar station, it appears that they, following the court decisions, will not be able to carry out the missions for which they were engaged. On the other hand, regarding the cost to the community of legal proceedings brought as a result of the various decisions you have made, which, let us recall, have been found to be illegal or have been suspended most of the time. Madam Secretary of State, can you give us more details on the five experts I have just mentioned, and more specifically on the process of appointing these experts? What is the exact purpose of their contract? What is their exact role in BELSPO? What is the cost of their contract? Do you confirm the amount, revealed by the press, of €440,000 for a period of 14 months? In addition, I would be grateful if you could provide us with information on the number of lawsuits related to the polar station on which the law firm that defends the state has worked since you took office and on the amount of fees claimed. Do you confirm the amount of 500,000 euros revealed by the press? This money would have made it possible to finance the climate centre of excellence!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u14	Mr President, I am pleased that you are giving me the opportunity to go into more detail on the current issue of the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station in Antarctica. From the questions I have received after the recent Council of State ruling, I can only conclude that you have read the newspapers well without, however, having time to plunge into the complexity of the matter. I cannot agree with the insinuations against my policy and my person, as recently published in the media and taken up literally by some of you. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to make a brief and chronological summary of the facts that have led to the current situation in and around the polar base. This summary is important to be able to answer your questions. The Princess Elisabeth zero-broadcast research station was built in the mid-2000s at the initiative of explorer Alain Hubert. On 15 June 2007, a partnership agreement was concluded between the then Minister of Science Policy and the International Polar Foundation (IPF). Articles 5 and 6 of the Convention state the following. "At the end of the construction, the IPF donated to the State, free of charge, the full ownership of the station. However, it was agreed that the IPF would retain a symbolic undivided quota of one thousandth of the station's property. The donation of the station shall be subject to the following conditions: - funding for the maintenance and operation of the station will be provided by the State up to a maximum of EUR 1 million per year for the years 2008 and 2009. The budget will then have to be reviewed. - as a privileged partner of the State within the framework of the Polar Secretariat, the IPF will be responsible for maintenance and maintenance. To this end, the IPF will not receive funds from the public authorities for the tasks assigned to it. On 22 December 2008, the latter clause was amended for an amendment to the Partnership Agreement, which amended it as follows: "As a privileged partner of the State within the framework of the Polar Secretariat, the IPF will be responsible for maintenance and maintenance. To this end, a partnership agreement will be concluded between the Polar Secretariat and the IPF." In addition, the amendment also changes the overall cost estimate for the design and construction of the station. This estimate is now increased to EUR 21.2 million, while the initial estimate was EUR 6.4 million. By the Act of 24 July 2008 on various provisions, the Polar Secretariat is established as a separate-managed State service. The Royal Decree of 20 May 2009 lays down the rules for the management of these separately managed State services. Hosted within the Science Policy PPS, the Polar Secretariat provides financial, administrative and material management of the Polar Station. The Polar Secretariat is headed by a Director and a Strategic Council, consisting of twelve members with a five-year term of office, six government representatives and six representatives from the private sector, including one IPF representative and five representatives proposed by the IPF but appointed by the Minister of Science Policy. The Partnership Protocol between the Polar Secretariat and the IPF was concluded on March 30, 2010. This Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Minister of Science Policy and the IPF concerns the transfer of ownership, maintenance and management of the polar station and its equipment. An inventory was drawn up in September 2009 and the Belgian State committed itself to bear the operating costs of the polar station up to EUR 1.25 million per year. The agreement also determines that, in the event of non-compliance with the memorandum of understanding, a repayment of the investments made by the IPF of EUR 15 million and EUR 6.4 million by the State after depreciation should take place. No development work may be carried out without the consent of the State. During the 2013-2014 period, serious irregularities were reported by the Inspector General of Finance. Problems have arisen between the IPF and the Polar Secretariat. The report of the Inspector General of Finance refers to a conflict of interest in the head of the IPF and problems with the invoices introduced. The IPF unilaterally rejected the Memorandum of Understanding in a letter to the then Prime Minister, Mr.Di Rupo, on April 22, 2013. A new Memorandum of Understanding was to be concluded later in the year between the State and the IPF. In 2015, the latter again rejected the agreement. At the time of the government's formation at the end of 2014, the Polar Secretariat's strategic council had not yet been renewed for a further five years. Given the problems that had arisen in previous years, I had asked the IPF in early 2015 to propose new candidates for the composition of the strategic board. As the IPF refused to answer, I decided to adapt the functioning of the Polar Secretariat, a separate managed state service linked to the Science Policy PPS, to bring it into line with the principles of transparent management of public funds. On 10 August 2015, on my proposal, the government decided on a new royal decree with a view to adapting the decree of 20 May 2009 laying down the rules for the management of the separate managed state service, the Polar Secretariat. The new Order specifies that the Strategic Council may be composed only by members appointed by the Federal Strategic Cell and that the IPF is no longer the preferred partner of the Polar Secretariat. I would like to elaborate on the argument that led to the adaptation of the Royal Decree of 20 May 2009 laying down the rules for the management of the State service with separate management. In summary, the latter de facto granted a monopoly to the IPF as a service provider in Antarctica. This provision conflicted with the rules of free trade, free movement of services, good management and efficient use of public funds. The service provider used this monopoly position and abused it. I'll explain. The following conclusions were reached by the Inspector General of Finance in his opinion of 25 July 2015. 1. The cost of the campaigns presented by the IPF to the Belgian State was still on an upward trend. Where it was agreed that the costs could not exceed a maximum amount of EUR 1 million, they increased to EUR 1.1 million in 2009, EUR 2.6 million in 2010 and EUR 2.8 million in 2011 to complete a new cooperation agreement with the IPF to EUR 3 million." 2. Violation of compliance with agreements on certain parts of the envelope. The Finance Inspectorate noted several times that the invoices submitted exceeded the approved budget. 3. Infringement of the agreement on the destination of the balance of the campaigns. The Finance Inspectorate found that the IPF had attempted to recover the invoices that had been rejected through previous years' balances. 4. Violation of previous agreements. The Finance Inspectorate found that the IPF had no longer complied in March 2015 with the agreements concluded with the Belgian State, including the agreement approved by the Council of Ministers on 12 July 2013. 5. Infringement on the justification of expenses. The Finance Inspectorate noted that the balance of invoices for certain shipping charges had not been included in the additional supporting documents. 6. The offence combining function and communication. The Finance Inspectorate here speaks of a complete conflict of interest between the position of President of the Strategic Council and that of President of the IPF, which is exercised by one person. The note of the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2015 lists at least eleven shortcomings. Four of these relate to cooperation between the Belgian State and the IPF. The other seven highlight the internal issue of the IPF. In accordance with the new Royal Decree of 2015 on the management of the Polar Secretariat, the mission relating to the organisation of the BELARE campaigns towards the South Pole was no longer directly entrusted to the IPF. The task must now be assigned through a tender procedure. Thus, the organisation of the BELARE campaign for the 2015-2016 season, approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers of 24 September 2015 was attributed to AntarcticiQ SPRL.The latter had to work with a defence team. The cooperation agreement for the BELARE campaign was concluded between the Ministers of Science and Defence Policy. The IPF has initiated various procedures to challenge the State's decisions declared to be inadmissible for interim measures. The 2015-2016 BELARE campaign is going very well with Chiara Montanari as Head of the Expedition and with a team of members of AntarcticQ SPRL, Defence and Belgian scientists. Pursuant to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 29 April 2016, the Polar Secretariat has also launched, for the preparation and organisation of the BELARE 2016-2017 campaign, a public procurement involving applications for this BELARE campaign. The cooperation agreement between the Scientific Policy and Defence is also renewed for this campaign. The IPF filed an application for suspension with the court against these decisions. In its judgment of 23 September 2016, the Council of State suspended the Royal Decree of 10 August on the new management rules of the Polar Secretariat. Under this Decision, the Polar Secretariat may entrust the performance of certain maintenance tasks to one or more third parties, subject to compliance with public procurement legislation, in order to have the necessary expertise and human and material resources. The Council of State argues that the Royal Decree of 10 August 2015 results in a violation of Article 62 of the Law of 24 July 2008 on various provisions, under which the Polar Secretariat provides financial and material management of the scientific station Princess Elisabeth as part of the donation made by the International Polar Foundation to the State. One consequence of the judgment of 23 September 2016 is that the Polar Secretariat had to stop the procedure during the public call for applications for the organisation of the 2016-2017 campaign in BELARE. In order to continue to organise the BELARE campaign for the 2016-2017 Antarctic summer, the Council of Ministers on 20 October decided to send a limited maintenance mission to the polar base consisting of a team of experts from the defence and scientific policy. This will eventually be supplemented by a number of scientists. The IPF is offered the opportunity to accompany the mission with three representatives. The IPF also initiated a new procedure against the Belgian State, which led to the suspension of the government initiative by a decision of the Council of State of 27 October 2016. The judgment makes it clear that the Belgian State, although it owns 99.9% of the polar base, cannot decide alone on the organisation of a maintenance mission to the polar base. This decision is the responsibility of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat, which must collaborate in the maintenance and operation of the base with the IPF as its preferred partner. In addition to these administrative problems, there are still very clear indications that the IPF, a foundation whose aim is to ensure the communication and teaching of polar research, has abused its monopoly position to conduct or allow to conduct and provide or allow to be provided by persons linked to the IPF, under the guise of a privileged partnership with the Belgian State, commercial activities at the polar base and in its neighbourhood without any connection with this partnership. Already during the construction of the polar base, critical questions arose regarding the ownership structure during an inspection of Norway in February 2009. Belgium replied that the base would be transferred to the State and managed through a special structure, the Polar Secretariat. Norway then gave satisfaction. But in the 2009 inspection report, the Norwegian team made the following critical remark: “Although the inspection team has received satisfactory answers to questions and concerns raised with respect to ownership and research platform, it nevertheless seems appropriate to flag the potential uncertainties that appear when private interests are involved in Antarctic national science operations, both with regard to logistics, science priorities and funding. In itself such private interests does not necessarily lessen the quality and priorities of the activities, but it does raise questions with respect to inter alia liability and safety issues, scientific objectives, safeguarding of scientific continuity and issues related to cooperation inter alia between operations and science, between various operators, between operator and COMNAP, and between operator and national authorities.” In November 2015, the IPF ignored the Court's ban on setting up a team at the polar base and directing it to retrieve and move equipment to the "blue ice runway". It was only after the Belgian State imposed a penalty payment that the IPF reported some of the stolen material to the polar base. On September 25, 2016, a commercial announcement was placed on the South African website http://www.polarnova.co.za/story.html. I quote again in English to be sure that there is no translation error and to avoid discussions about differences between Dutch and French. “Adventurers keen on seeing in the New Year under rather unusual circumstances can do so by joining the Polar Nova expedition, leaving Cape Town for East Antarctica on Thursday 29 December. The expedition is made possible by ZaiLab, a maverick South African company that develops revolutionary contact-centre solutions. ZaiLab is no ordinary company: rather, it’s an organisation of craftsmen with an eye on sweeping staid tradition aside to make way for the truly remarkable. As such, they could never settle for unremarkable forms of marketing. So ZaiLab are building a truck. A futuristic, high-tech truck that looks more like a spacecraft than a land-bound vehicle. They want this truck to go places trucks never go. The first port of call is Belgium’s Princess Elisabeth Antarctica Research Station, the first zero emission research station in the world. In taking their truck to Antarctica, ZaiLab is making it possible for a small group of 21 passengers to join them in seeing the mission to a successful conclusion. Both people and cargo will travel on a Russian Ilyushin, the best cargo plane for landing and taking off on a blue-ice runway. Weather permitting, the plan will land at Perseus airfield, from which two groups will be transported by 4x4’s and snowmobiles to the station. The spectacle that is Antarctica encompasses one of the most pristine wilderness areas on Earth where there is no real human population – and this is one of the best times to visit, when the weather is warmer and the sun shines 24 hours a day. With unrivalled photographic and film opportunities along the way, this expedition offers adventurers the rare opportunity to share the life of scientists and crew who live in the most futuristic station on the continent. Sleeping accommodation can be arranged outdoors, in tents designed to withstand the harsh weather, or indoors in heated rooms.” And so on, and so on … From the evidence, it is again apparent that there is a complete confusion between the activities of the IPF in its partnership with the State and the commercial activities of collaborators or other persons involved in the IPF. At the DROMLAN post-season meeting in Bremerhaven in May 2015, the private air carrier ALCI (Antarctic Logistics Centre International), jointly with IPF, presented the project "blue ice runway at Romnoes". This project is part of an initiative to build a large airstrip near the polar base, with the objective of hosting the international airfare. ALCI and IPF had previously indicated that they would introduce the necessary request for this to the Committee for Environmental Protection of the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, with a view to starting construction work in 2016-2017. In his briefing note, the Belgian representative to the ATCM proposes: “To our knowledge, such a CEE/IEE has not yet been introduced, while preparation works and a test flight already took place during the 2015-2016 season. Belgium has never been officially notified about the runway development, has not been involved in and has not delivered a permit for the activities. Belgium could see some merits in the project, as far as some concerns are addressed and clarifications are given regarding (i) its potential burden and implications on the activities at Princess Elisabeth Station; (ii) a CEE, or at minimum an IEE for such a runway to be assessed by the ATCM; (iii) clarifications about the authorization/permit system to be applied as well as to what policy on tourism will be in place for the runway.” Nevertheless, let me stress that it is essential that Belgium continue to respect, in this regard, as a co-founder and signatory, the Antarctic Treaty and the 1991 Madrid Protocol, also known as the Protocol on the Protection of the Environment to the Antarctic Treaty. This Protocol gives the following Contracting States a very clear mission in Article 3: “Activities shall be planned and conducted in the Antarctic Treaty area so as to accord priority to scientific research and to preserve the value of Antarctica as an area for the conduct of such research, including research essential to understanding the global environment.” The parties to the Treaty indicated at their annual meeting that any hidden tourist activity as a scientific activity would be severely criticized by them. I would like to provide additional information on your questions. It is true that the Council of State and the French-speaking court of first instance stipulate that, under the current cooperation agreements, neither the federal government nor the Minister for Scientific Policy can decide on the organisation of a BELARE campaign in the South Pole. Only the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat can make such a decision. At present, he has not yet done so. Consequently, neither the Belgian State nor the IPF present at the polar base can interfere with the mission of the Polar Secretariat. At no time did I ignore a decision of a Belgian court. I have suspended, following a recent decision by the Council of State, the public procurement for the call for applications for the 2016-2017 BELARE campaign. The Belgian mission was immediately recalled and placed on hold. I invited both the IPF and the relevant federal ministers to present their delegates for appointment as members of the new Polar Secretariat Strategic Council. I hope I can name him as soon as possible. Through the media, I learned that Alain Hubert was currently present on the polar base with a team of eight members of the IPF. They went there on their own initiative without any mandate from the Polar Secretariat. Defence has all the capabilities to carry out a mission to the South Pole. One of its teams participated in the construction of the polar base and benefits from years of experience in all the logistical and operational aspects of a mission to the South Pole. I can confirm that I am in a continuous dialogue with the IPF in order to find a common solution. For your information, I will meet tomorrow with my IPF interlocutor at my firm in this spirit of dialogue – and this is not the first time. With regard to BELSPO and SPRL AntarcticQ experts, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that BELSPO was not contacted by BELSPO, but by the Polar Secretariat. After the contract expired in early 2016, no service was issued by SPRL. As part of the organization of an Antarctic Polar Station 2016-2017 maintenance mission, including the evaluation and development of proposals for future campaigns, in line with the Government's agreement, we recruited five experts with expertise and experience in the various technical areas necessary for this mission and the related tasks. The call for applications was made via an official selection of Selor under the references ANG16078, ANG16077, ANG16076, ANG16075, ANG16074, and was published on BELSPO's website for advertising. The lawyer's invoices related to the Belgian State-IPF and Alain Hubert case represent a total of 124,318.97 euros for 2015 and 333,866.71 euros for 2016. These costs will have no impact on the budgets of the 2017 Polar Secretariat and the BELARE campaigns. Finally, I would like to stress that my ambition is to work in full compliance with environmental treaties to continue to guarantee scientific research in the Antarctic base. A lasting solution for transparent management of the polar base is to be sought in a new form of cooperation between the public and the private sector. The solution is the establishment, through a public procurement, of an AISBL, as indicated in the government agreement, with at least one other Member State and one private partner. This AISBL will be responsible for management. The Belgian State will retain a leading voice in the ISBL. Belgian researchers will be involved in the management of the base. International cooperation and sponsorship will be preferred, so that the Belgian State will see the operational cost decrease. The private partner concerned, subject to transparent management, will have the opportunity to have an advisory voice within the ISBL. I hope I have answered all your questions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your partly bilingual response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u16	It was to be sure that the quotations were correct in English. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u17	I greeted him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u18	I don't want a discussion on the use of languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u19	I must also tell you that I have allowed you to continue your answer far beyond the normal time. I am so that Members can express themselves in the debates and that the answers are as complete as possible. I turn to colleagues to ask them if they are satisfied with the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u20	Dear President, I feel like we need to speak English to try to understand each other. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very long answer. I discovered this room and felt like I was seeing what I was seeing on television, but it was more like in eastern countries. It was called the Politburo. I think the speeches were going on for so long. Thank you for your very long summary. This will feed into my attempt to know the file, which is indeed extremely complex. You almost made us a history. It's good, I'm a historian. I'm interested in it and it's a very beautiful science. You should also favour it a little more in your budgets, I will come back to that. You started out a little aggressively suggesting that we were dealing with this issue through the press. You have tried, on the basis of other policies, to do something else, not to be content with the press and to try to give the truth. I listened as patiently as possible to what was said in French. I was a little less careful about what was said in English because my limitations and the limits of translation made it a little difficult. I will therefore read this in the full report. Madam Secretary of State, I note that you have tried, in English, to demolish the IPF, to discredit it. I am not here the representative of anyone, and at least not of the IPF. I imagine that, tomorrow, if you start the meeting like this – that's the only thing you bring us – you're not well off. After two years of trying to discredit those who demonstrated that they knew how to go on the ground, that they knew how to build and manage a station, you tried to overstep them for reasons that belong to you. You're pointing out the Finance Inspectorate two years ago. We need to talk about it, but not in the same way. You're in front of a total fiasco today. The main victims of all this are scientists who do not know how to get to this base, which is nevertheless the primary destination. You left in an arm of arms with Mr. Alain Hubert and the International Polar Foundation. And in the image of all the arms of iron that you enter with other personalities – I am not going to mention any other issue by name – the result of your policy is that you provide your opponents with legal weapons for them to win, since justice ends up giving them reason. This is still quite paradoxical; this is my first observation. The second observation – without wanting to adopt a position in this regard – is that you have spent considerable time talking to Norwegians and a website to try to discredit, in English, the IPF, with whom, tomorrow, you will have to renew the dialogue, because that is simply what the Council of State obliges you to do. Second concrete element – little by little, you are forced to move forward – you will finally appoint representatives to the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat. Madam Secretary of State, you had to expect that: I am going to table a motion because I am not going to be content with the answers that are given here, which are obviously unsatisfactory in my view. The real problem is to find a lasting solution to resolve once and for all the relations between the various actors, public and private. This is probably what makes the situation difficult because we find ourselves in a model that needs to be invented and run as sustainably as possible using the skills that exist. Denying the skills of a number of interlocutors, whom you dispute in your answer, while you are going to be forced to work with them tomorrow, proves that we must turn to dialogue. I will therefore table a motion. This is reasonable, Madam Secretary of State, because, from an accounting point of view, you will be obliged to go through all these steps, namely: - you are actually complying with court decisions; - appoint as soon as possible the members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat, - by virtue of the decisions of the Council of State, take the necessary legal and proportionate measures to enable the Polar Secretariat and the Foundation to carry out their tasks in the service of scientific research; - take concrete initiatives to establish a formal dialogue between the Polar Secretariat, the Polar Foundation and the State. This last point is what I referred to earlier as the new somewhat modern convention, which meets the sometimes legitimate rules of the Finance Inspectorate when it comes to purely public budgets, but which we know are not suitable for the operation with the private sector. That is the difficulty. Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to go into the details, but, for example, when we have to find specific materials to create shoes that allow us to evolve under conditions as extraordinary as those prevailing in the South Pole, a traditional public market is not on the road. Simple common sense makes it possible to realize it. Finally, I ask you to make every effort, in partnership with the Polar Secretariat and the Polar Foundation, to ensure the maintenance and rehabilitation of the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station in order to relaunch the scientific campaigns as soon as possible. As far as the Treaty is concerned, it is obviously important to respect it. Your attempt to use the treaty to settle personal accounts obviously makes no sense. I would point out that Mrs Marghem had issued an environmental permit to Mr Alain Hubert. I don't know if you know, but in this case, we're in the nails. And we do not compromise with respect for a treaty of which Belgium is a party just as busy as it is dependent. If it were to derogate from that treaty, the parties to that treaty would condemn Belgium. In conclusion, Mr. Chair, I will table this motion to invite the Secretary of State to finally return to the path not only of dialogue but of the sustainability of the polar station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to thank you for the summary you have given us. It was indeed important to come back from the beginning to the information as well as to the chronological order of the decisions of the government, the orders and to clarify this matter. I will request a copy of your response and consult the report to properly analyze it. Indeed, if I used English, two or three words were unfamiliar to me. In any case, I would like to reread your answer with rest and convey the message that what interests us, you and I, is scientific research. I don't want to penalize her. I want her to evolve. It is obviously an important engine, as is a flagship of our economy. I would also like to return to the dialogue and move forward on this issue, on which you have provided us with the necessary clarification. This is an important issue for our country and we will be able to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u22	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for her response. I shall be briefer than my colleague Cheron, who has already drawn up the guidelines for the reply. I would just like to give an impression and comment, Madam Secretary of State. The impression is that, in your long monologue, I had the impression that Mercator was turning into a courthouse courtroom but with one of the parties present only on the stand, defending with many details and many dates the balance sheet of your action at the level of the polar station. However, I must pay tribute to your willingness to have honourable transparency objectives. That being said, I think it would have been better to perpetuate rather than penalise the polar station which, as has been said, with the virtues of dialogue must be at the service of scientific research. In your long monologue where you highlight everything that is wrong so that this dialogue doesn't take place and that you end up saying "Tomorrow we meet and finally talk to each other", there is a paradox that I hardly explain to myself. In any case, the will of our group is that scientific research is at the centre of your concerns with respect to the conventions but above all with the need to put in place the tools to sustain this will that drives us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u23	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Daniel Senesael read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Marcel Cheron and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud and Scientific Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, Asks the government: - to comply with the court decisions established to date in the file; - to appoint as soon as possible all members of the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat; - in accordance with the decisions of the Council of State, to take the necessary legal and proportionate measures to enable the Polar Secretariat and the Polar Foundation to carry out their tasks in the service of scientific research; - take concrete initiatives to re-establish a formal dialogue between the Polar Secretariat, the International Polar Foundation and the State; - to make every effort, in partnership with the Polar Secretariat and the International Polar Foundation, to ensure the maintenance and rehabilitation of the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station, with a view to relaunching scientific campaigns as soon as possible." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Daniel Senesael and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud, and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, calls on the Government to: - to comply with the judgments of the Court in this case; - appoint the members of the Pool Secretariat's strategic board as soon as possible; - take, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of State, the necessary legal and proportionate measures to enable the Polar Secretariat and the International Polar Foundation to carry out their tasks in the service of scientific research; - develop concrete initiatives to re-establish a formal dialogue between the Pool Secretariat, the IPF and the State; - in cooperation with the Pool Secretariat and the IPF, make every effort to maintain and restore the Polar Station Princess Elisabeth so that the scientific campaigns can be resumed as soon as possible." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Mrs Cassart turns her questions Nos 13407 and 13409 into written questions. Thank you for your patience and we return to your question No 13405.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, for some time now I have been asking you regularly about your plans for reforms, particularly the one on the empowerment of FSEs. As agreed in the government agreement, the TSOs will have their own staffing. In this respect, the idea is to create autonomous entities in relation to the State, i.e. "clusters". According to the press, these clusters would have the status of public limited companies under public law for social purposes. They would have a board of directors that would negotiate a specific management contract with the State. In addition to the federal government, the board would include representatives from the scientific and business communities. In addition, in clusters, a change of status would be announced as there would appear to be only contract workers. The statutes would gradually disappear. This is a further concern, especially since science and space policy projects are generally multi-year projects. This requires very long-term continuity. Having a contractual status could also cool down more than one to embark on this scientific career. Can you tell me why the Directors General of FSEs are not represented on the future cluster board? What will be the role of these Directors General and what autonomy will they have? Can you tell me if the objective is for the Directors General to become operational directors? Can you confirm to me the gradual disappearance of the statutes in the future clusters? What are the reasons for this change? How can the continuity of research support be ensured with such changes? Aren't you a little afraid of slowing down some of the candidates? I assure you right away: this is a very specific position here. I am not a defendant of everything that is statutory or contractual. What I realize is that in some places statutory employees can give continuity in work when it comes to a specific area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u25	Mr President, dear colleague, my will is to integrate the federal scientific institutions that I lead to form clusters. Each cluster will have legal personality and its own management bodies. It will be primarily responsible for administrative policy and institutional management. This includes activities that could be better organized at a broader level, namely shared services, such as personnel management, budget and accounting, legal framework, translation services and logistical aspects. This will allow FSEs to focus more on the implementation and development of their own area of expertise. Clusters will receive a custom or sui generis status. This tailor-made statute provides for the division of powers between three bodies: the Management Board, the Executive Committee and the Directors-General. The Board of Directors will be responsible for the strategic direction of the cluster and the evaluation of the Directors General. The management agreement between the clusters and the federal government will be the guiding principle. The Directors-General of the various FSOs will sit on the relevant cluster steering committee and will be responsible for the cluster management. The Directors-General will ultimately remain responsible for the management of their institution as a whole (scientific, financial and administrative). The only difference with the current situation will be that the support services currently provided, in part, indirectly by BELSPO's management services and directly by the support services of the ESFs, will now be centrally organized. Their oversight will continue to be the responsibility of the Directors General through the Management Committee. It is therefore not a question of demotion of the operational director under any circumstances. The current statutory staff will maintain their status in the new structure. New appointments will be on a fixed-term or indefinite contractual basis, as required. The distinction between scientific and administrative staff will be retained in the new legal entity. I am not afraid that the new structure will deter candidates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for the clarification you have given me. I think you've answered all my questions. We will see how the situation evolves. If I have any comments, I will come back to you, but I think that for now you have been able to give me the information I wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u27	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, EDF-tWIN, a new funding mechanism for scientific research programmes promoting cooperation between federal scientific institutions (FSIs) and universities must be introduced. In this regard, it seems to me useful to consult with all relevant actors (directors of the FSEs and academic institutions) in order to be able to respond to their concerns and expectations. I find the idea of collaboration between federal science institutions and universities interesting, but attention needs to be paid to terms and conditions, including budgets. Madam Secretary of State, have you met the directors of the FSEs? What are their demands and/or comments on the EDF-tWIN project? Have you proposed changes to the original project based on their comments? Can you tell me how this project will be funded? Is there a key allocation between the federal government, academic institutions and FSEs? Can the EDF-tWIN project guarantee funding for researchers even after several years? A space project rarely takes place in two or three years, so funding should be provided to the end. Do you have any contact with your colleague Mr Marcourt, Minister for Research in the French Community on this matter? What does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u28	Madam, members of my firm and I have met on several occasions with the Directors General of the ESF in the framework of the EDF-tWIN project: at the BELSPO Management Committee on 7 September 2015, during an information meeting with the Scientific Committees of the ESF on 19 April 2016 and at the BELSPO Management Committee on 20 May 2016. Following the meeting of the BELSPO Management Committee on 7 September 2015, the Directors General of the ESF collectively sent me their comments and comments in a letter dated 2 October 2015, and individually via BELSPO. The individual comments were compiled in a summary note dated October 6, 2015. Following the meeting of the BELSPO Management Committee on 20 May 2016, the Directors-General of the ESF submitted their individual comments and comments to BELSPO. In further developing the program, different points were taken into account with respect to the concerns of the FSEs. In the draft laws and royal decrees, account has been taken of the possibility given to the FSEs to first define the specific field of the researcher FED-tWIN. A great deal of freedom has been provided for this search function to be fulfilled by the FSEs. The initial provisions which would have led the FSEs and the universities to a sanction if the research function was discontinued were replaced by incentives. There are overhead costs for the parties involved in addition to an operating budget that is transferable each year for each mandate holder. With the relevant regional target group and universities, there was intensive consultation. The rectors of the various universities have already been invited to my office in September 2015 for a first consultation on this new initiative. The continuation of the consultation process took place through the Conseil des recteurs francophones and the VLIR (Vlaams Interuniversitaire Raad). At present, the EDF-tWIN project is intended to finance the EDF-tWIN profiles. On this basis scientific collaborators with a doctoral degree can be recruited to be employed half-time by an ESF and half-time by a university. The grant allocated to beneficiary FSEs and universities is allocated on the basis of a 50/50 allocation key. 44% of the grant for universities is allocated to universities in the French Community and 56% to universities in the Flemish Community. The amount of the subsidy for FSEs shall be allocated according to the number of members of the scientific staff in operation and according to the type of FSE. In the first five years, the federal government funded the 100% profile. From the sixth year to the tenth year included, the federal authority will fund the profile up to 50% of the annual cost while the FSS and the university will contribute 25% of the cost each on their side. Starting in the eleventh year, the cost of the profile will be borne entirely by the ESF and the university. The bill was approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016 and submitted to the Council of State. The first calls will be launched in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u29	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the Belgica research vessel is old and needs to be replaced. In this regard, and pending its replacement, the government decided last year to carry out urgent maintenance work to keep the vessel afloat for the next three to four years. However, after 2019, the Belgica will find it very difficult to obtain the technical inspection certificates and the assurances necessary for its maintenance. In this connection, a feasibility and financing study assesses the amount needed to build a new vessel at EUR 55 million. On your instructions, a working group was set up in 2015 to discuss the problem of replacing the Belgica and to examine all possible options. This working group is expected to look at how to generate an optimal return on investment through potential collaboration with private companies, both in the event of the construction or purchase of a new research vessel and in the event of its use. Madam Secretary of State, can you provide an update on the progress of this working group in relation to the replacement of the Belgica? Can you tell me how often this working group meets? What solutions are currently on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u31	Dear colleague, the working group met six times. In addition to this group, Defence and the Federal Science Policy have also put in place, at my request and at the request of the Minister of Defence, a steering committee and a project team to prepare and finalize the acquisition file for the new vessel. This steering committee meets once a month and the project team at a more frequent rate. The working group prepared a note to the Council of Ministers for the replacement of RV Belgica. This note was submitted to the Inspector of Finance for advice last June. The file was discussed in intercabinets last July. In the meantime, the dossier was presented to the Council of Ministers, which took the decision in principle to support the project. The proposed runway, which was also mentioned as the only coherent option in the 2009 feasibility study, is confirmed in the 2014 funding study: it is the acquisition of a new research vessel that meets the needs of all potential users. The cost of the acquisition is EUR 54.45 million, including VAT. The annual operating cost is estimated at €4.3 million. As with the current Belgica, it is anticipated that the operation of the new vessel will take place in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence. A Working Group on Operations has also been set up and has already met twice. The new vessel will take over the tasks of the current Belgica, namely research, training and education, monitoring and disaster support. Thanks to the additional navigation time, this vessel will be able to accommodate new users of the maritime industry (cf. the blue economy). After consultation, the companies indicated that they wished to lease the new research vessel on a commercial basis. In this way, some of the operating costs can be recovered. However, no financial cooperation is envisaged in connection with this acquisition. Some foreign institutions such as IFREMER have also been contacted and have shown interest in the new building. Cooperation with them is possible on the basis of an exchange of time of ships, scientific equipment and specialized personnel. This would also save fuel, investment and staff. The scientific and technical needs for a new research vessel have been updated and detailed in collaboration with the various scientists and supervisors. A consultation has already taken place with ten shipyards to review the various existing technical options for the construction of such a building. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. This important issue is therefore taking its course. I am pleased that meetings and consultations have taken place and that decisions have been taken. There's a lot of work left, but in any case the first fruits are there. I won't have any further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u33	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, since I tabled the question and today there have been developments. I have therefore changed the title of the question a little bit. Madam Secretary of State, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium have used crowdfunding for the first time, says crowdfunding – as I know you particularly like English – to support the restoration of a work by artist Paul Gauguin, the Portrait of Suzanne Bambridge. The aim was to raise €22,500, which had already been reached 21 days before the harvest was due. At the same time, the Baillet Latour Fund has come in support by providing twice the amount of each euro collected to reach a total of 45 000 euros. At the outset, Madam Secretary of State, allow me to welcome the strengthening of this type of mixed partnership for our federal museums. As you know, in April, the Royal Museums of Art and History, installed at the 50th anniversary, had also called on crowdfunding to acquire digital tablets as part of the exhibition "Ukyo-e, the most beautiful Japanese prints". While it is clear that this type of funding should not be a substitute for the federal government's missions, it is nevertheless an interesting source of additional revenue in the execution of certain missions. Madam Secretary of State, can you give us the outline of this initiative? In the event that not all of the expected funds have been raised, what was the planned plan B? More broadly, what is the current policy with all federal institutions, federal museums, regarding the use of crowdfunding? Do you have similar mechanisms for other national heritage works? If so, could you communicate them to us? Finally, have you decided to carry out a benchmarking with European partners to get some insight into good practices that we could also draw from? I am thinking, for example, of the Louvre Museum and the British Museum, which are developing a policy of acquiring very active works of art with the direct support of such tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u34	Mr President, Mr Calomne, this participatory funding project was initiated by the directors and the new patronage and partnership of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB), as part of the restoration of a masterpiece by Paul Gauguin, the Portrait of Suzanne Bambridge. This is an awareness-raising campaign for the general public on heritage conservation, which is one of the main tasks of the MRBABs. The public responded enthusiastically to this project. The total amount requested was collected in record time, in just over two weeks instead of the five weeks planned. This is the first time MRBABs have used crowdfunding and they can only welcome the success of the operation. This success prompts them to repeat the process, probably within two years, for a new restoration or another major project. The MRBABs and their philanthropy and partnership departments have analysed the cases of other European museums, not to mention involving bodies such as the International Council of Museums (ICOM) or the King Baudouin Foundation, but also the young BeMuseum initiative, in their reflection on alternative financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, since 14 October and until 22 January, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB), at the initiative of their director, are presenting an exhibition entitled Moderniteit à la Belgique. The works, exhibited on 1 800 m2, are from the museum's collections of modern art and are mainly the result of the work of Belgian artists. Beyond the quality of this temporary exhibition – I don't know if you visited it – it appears that the space reserved for it has forced MRBAB officials to make choices. Indeed, the 1,800 m2 available allowed to present only a very small part of the large collection of modern art, of the order of 10% of the so-called modern works of the reserves of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. And these figures, related to your project to reopen a "museum" in the very building of Rue Regence, ask question. Indeed, they recall your lack of ambition. Your will is to devote only 2,400 m2 to the establishment of what you call a museum of modern art, and perhaps even contemporary, I don't know. And I put the word "museum" in quotation marks because such a surface will maintain most of the collections in museum reserves and will not allow to develop a multidisciplinary vision, as required in museums today, in accordance with the expectations of an ever more active audience. I would point out, however, that the previous government had reached a temporary solution with more than 7,000 m2 in the former Vanderborght stores, to which you unilaterally gave a halt. However, this solution would have served both of these objectives. Madam Secretary of State, do you still think that 2 400 m2 is enough to create a federal museum of modern art worthy of Belgium and the capital of Europe? Do you have any analyses or studies that would suggest that such a small space would meet all the requirements of a modern, multidisciplinary museum? Shouldn't we, like the great museums dedicated to modern art, devote an exclusive building to it? In this context, should collaboration with the ambitious future regional museum not be necessary? What do the teams and the director of the museum think about these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u37	(...) diversity of the permanent collection of the 20th and 21st centuries, composed of important and captivating works of the collection in a living and educational encounter. By keeping a reserve of works that can be used to enhance the rooms of the permanent collection, it will be possible to energize the presentation and review the circuit by regularly changing parts of the permanent exhibition from which our faithful visitors can benefit in the first place. You qualify the space reserved for the modern part of the permanent collection as restricted. Let me reply that there is no rule or measure to appreciate the space needed to meet the requirements of a modern and multidisciplinary museum. The functional space for spreading the permanent collection of a museum is determined by the mission of the museum, the nature and richness of the collection, the methods of exhibition specific to the collection, the budgetary context as well as the specific cultural context and the collaboration with other cultural institutions with a similar mission. These include Bozar, Wiel's, Centrale for Contemporary Art. It is up to the museum to develop an effervescent and instructive demonstration of its collection in order to enhance the artistic heritage of which it is the guardian and promoter. Its assessment is reflected in the attendance and appreciation of the public as well as the reputation of the institution. I am obliged to note that, as important as they are, the collections of the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium cannot be calibrated by taking as a parameter the collections of the great modern art museums of metropolises such as London, Paris or New York. On the other hand, it has often been noted that being able to present to the Belgian and international public an overview of Belgian art and its international human-scale context from the 15th to the 21st century under one roof presents an exceptional and almost exclusive advantage for the attractiveness of the offer to visitors. With this in mind, it will be appropriate to develop a collaboration with the future regional museum, if it is erected, with respect for the specificities and missions of each institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, we know that you have no discussion with the director of museums. You know that all the Conservatives tell you that's not enough. You have no cultural ambitions for Brussels and for the royal and federal museums, we know that. You really make fun of us by saying that 2 400 m2 are enough! In addition, you add modern art and contemporary art! You're going to kill those museums and you know what you're doing! The only positive thing I remember in your answer, and we'll see if it's actually happening, is that you're opening the possibility of federal museums working with the regional museum that will come into being in contemporary art. But the fact that we can put a little art on 2,500 square meters means we won't be able to expose our talented artists. We will no longer be comparable in New York or London since you no longer give acquisition budgets to these museums. We will be even less comparable after five years with Mrs Sleurs as Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, with the tutelage on federal institutions and the Royal Museums!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, you know, of course, in your capacity as Secretary of State for Science Policy, the von Karman Institute, not an insignificant non-profit association that employs a hundred people and is federally supported in various ways, namely financially by BELSPO and logistics in relation to the building and infrastructure. This institute is a very important scientific institute in our country. It is world famous in the field of aerospace and in the field of simulation of wind currents in turbines and in the atmosphere. I understand that this non-profit association is currently facing serious financial debts. Despite being a private institution, what is your view of the von Karman Institute? How could you help this institution? Are there possible solutions to the financial problems and to the various debts, including debts to the federal government, in particular the RSZ? Do you see solutions possible in cooperation with the universities and the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u40	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, earlier this year I did receive disturbing information about possible cash flow problems that would exist in the VKI. According to unconfirmed information at that time, the VKI may no longer be able to meet its financial obligations in the long term. That is why I immediately instructed the two representatives of the Science Policy PPS who are on the VKI Board of Directors to ask the VKI President to clarify the financial situation of the VKI and to have an internal financial audit carried out. This financial audit has now been completed and will be presented to the VKI Management Board on 22 November, i.e. today. I was able to look at the report for the first time yesterday. This audit is not good, and that's an understatement. He points to a number of financial problems that go back to several years. For example, on 10 October 2016, the debt of the VKI amounts to EUR 6 613 262. The report talks about a whole series of shortcomings due to years of mismanagement. For example, the report notes that 17% of staff are on leave for 92 days. I give the general conclusion in the report. I will quote them in French, because the report is written in French: "The structure and style of the current management of the IVK are not adapted to an organization that has 136 people and generates more than 7 million own revenues. The IVK is characterized by the absence of a true pilotage. The KVI is in a very precarious financial situation. His credit is at stake. The KVI is in an emergency situation and cash flow is the top priority." You will understand that this audit report on the financial situation of the VCI needs to be studied very carefully. The VKI receives an annual donation of EUR 2.3 million through my administration. As the VKI is a private non-profit association with its own board of directors that takes autonomous decisions, I await the discussion of this report within that board of directors. This is happening today. I will be informed by the President of the VKI about the actions that will be discussed there. At the beginning of this year, I had a meeting with Mr Dordain, the current chairman of the VKI Board, who was recently appointed. I had a first follow-up interview yesterday. He has also promised me to deliver to me the actions that the board of directors links to this report in its entirety. I look forward to these proposals. The Management Board shall be given a period of about six months to draw up the necessary proposals. This will be discussed within the Management Board. I will not fail to keep you informed of this. We have recently received the audit and it is now all hands on deck to ensure that the VKI can survive and evolve into a modern structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u41	Mr. President, would you like me to reply in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u42	As you wish, or in English. Do it in English, if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u43	Thank you for your detailed and transparent answer. This indicates that the problem is even worse than I have heard so far. You suggest that the board be given a term of six months. The question is whether they have six months in the light of such a debt. On the one hand, it is a private-law institution, but on the other hand, you also indicate that this institution is only viable if the current amount of money is available. The role of the federal government and you as the competent Secretary of State is therefore de facto extremely relevant. The question is whether this non-profit organisation can survive on its own, even with the support that has been provided so far. I believe that this question should be asked not only by the members of the Management Board, but also by yourself, along with this honorable institution. It is not because there may be mismanagement that the objectives of the institution are not very important. Madam Secretary of State, we live in a country you know very well. This institution is located in a facility municipality in Brussels and is federalized, but it also works with professors from various universities of different national languages, which plays an important role. I believe that we must respect this. In my previous capacity in connection with the Music Conservatory, I once tried to initiate a vehicle with a federal input and community input. I understand there's an interest in the universities and the VITO. I think we should respect those who are interested in this von Karman Institute from both the north and the south of the country. If I were you, I would bring those interested to the table in order to resolve this problem as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, one of the missions of a museum should be to enrich its collections. In addition, the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium are under the supervision of the federal government and therefore fall within your competence. As you know, they do not receive a budget for the "enrichment-acquisitions" item. In doing so, for those museums, it's a little bit of a deal. Still, this has allowed the Royal Museums of Fine Arts to acquire a number of works, notably thanks to patrons. I recently learned that the Royal Museums of Fine Arts had been denied the acquisition of an important piece of Rik Wouters. I will not explain here the interest of this artist who made especially the beautiful days of the late province of Brabant. I negotiated the important reform of the latter and I remember that the works of Rik Wouters were a particular issue. Nevertheless, in the aftermath of the successful Chagall exhibition, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts benefited from a positive budgetary balance. Thanks to this unforeseen and beneficial financial contribution, they decided to acquire the above-mentioned work. However, as a result of the rigorous application, not to say rigorist, of the budget legislation by the Inspectorate of Finance, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts were opposed to an end of non-receiving. Madam Secretary of State, as a result of the budgetary situation in our country, there is no budget available for acquisitions. In addition, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts rely on the system of debugging or alternative financing. There's an opportunity for them. This opportunity is seized by the Royal Museums of Fine Arts to acquire, thanks to their work and the exhibition Chagall, a new work. And in its rigour, the Finance Inspectorate, which refers to normal and accounting rules – I draw the attention here that I am not making here the case of the Inspector of Finance, or the system – has not taken into account the fact that the budgetary situation obliges the museums to manage. This could also be the case for other alternative processes. You know that there are more and more crowdfunding processes. There are also other alternatives for our museums to continue to acquire works. Museums that do not acquire new works are museums that die, as we know. Madam Secretary of State, I will ask you two questions. I am not saying that you are responsible for it, but why did you contribute to this acquisition project being buried, without having it followed to Mrs Wilmès, the Minister of Budget, who might have been able to find an alternative solution to deal with this accounting challenge, but also with the budget? How can we guarantee the freedom of acquisition of federal museums in the context of a shortage of direct resources from the federal budget, without penalizing them, by implementing alternative fiscal policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u45	My colleague, the Council of Ministers has decided that each institution should work in the federal context of ESA neutrality. Nevertheless, I obtained an exception from the Minister of Budget for sections 2 and 3 of the ISF budgets. These expenses fall under Section 1. For Sections 0 and 1, the Budget Minister also granted an exception in 2016 for a value of EUR 5.8 million, in order to fully implement one shot investments. The Finance Inspectorate also rightly pointed out that there was no additional SEC margin. I have therefore followed the opinion of the Inspectorate in that regard. The Council of Ministers also decided that the incompressible nature should be stressed each time. According to the Finance Inspectorate, the purchase of a work of art is not an inevitable expense, but a choice of opportunity. In this, I joined the Inspectorate's point of view. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium have sought, on their own initiative and without my knowledge, to contact the office of the Minister of Budget to obtain a budgetary agreement. This procedure is not correct and, in this context, I have asked the Chair of the Science Policy PPS to investigate this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u46	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I know that in this case it is a bit of a loss. But for the future, is it not common sense to find alternative solutions by putting people around the table? I will, but if we leave the choice to the Finance Inspectorate to know what is good or not good for the sustainability of a museum, I think our cultural policy is in danger. I am not saying that the rules should not be respected, but some flexibility is already being considered. We have museums with the necessary dynamism. This is proof of the excellent Chagall exhibition, which has been the subject of praiseworthy criticism, etc. But most of all, the public has moved. If we want our museums to be alive tomorrow, that is, not only the collections present but above all the acquisitions make it possible to prepare the ground of tomorrow and to attract the population, I really invite you, together with the Minister of Budget, to consider an alternative budget for this purpose. I do not even question your budgetary choices - I will do so at the time of the budget - but in the case we are concerned about, we are in an accounting absurdity, which does not allow us to envisage, in an open and creative way, the possibility for museums to acquire works that are the basis of the quality of tomorrow's exhibitions for the public. That is what matters most.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as you know, I am very interested in your matters. That is why I have already spoken on a number of occasions about the dossier of the new technical standards concerning the guidelines for the preservation of archives. As a reminder, the objective is to increase the internal conservation capacity of the General Archives of the Kingdom and the State Archives in the provinces (AGR), to make security copies and to acquire a new management system for the longer-term preservation of archival collections. Initially, it was planned to close this case in March 2016 in order to publish the circular and ministerial decree as soon as possible. This case was a little late. That's why I asked you. Madam Secretary of State, could you please provide an update on the status of this case. Is it closed? What's on the agenda? And what about the circulars and ministerial orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u48	Madam Chair, Mrs Cassart, in response to your question, I am also referring to the answers to the other questions that I have already answered. In August 2016, the Chair of the Federal Science Policy Steering Committee received a positive opinion from Mr Wouter Paelinckx, Inspector General of Finance accredited to the Régie des Bâtiments: no fundamental opposition. The technical guidelines have also been validated by the Chief Executive Officer of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr. Vrijdaghs. On 20 September 2016, my cabinet transmitted the draft ministerial decree partially implementing article 6 of the Royal Decree of 18 August 2010 implementing articles 5 and 6 of the Archives Act of 24 June 1955 for agreement to Mrs Wilmès, Minister of Budget. We received his agreement on October 18. On 4 October, two members of the working group gave a presentation on the draft Ministerial Order for the College of FPS and PPS Chairs. Reactions to this presentation were positive. In recent weeks, the text of the circular has been updated one last time. I signed the Ministerial Order. Like the circular, it will be published very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your clarification and the agenda you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, in recent days the press has informed us of the opinion of the auditor of the Council of State on the appeals brought by the former President of the Federal Science Policy, BELSPO. I'm joining Mr. Cheron in his reply earlier. He left us now, but earlier, he highlighted the successive judicial episodes that characterize your management of the department. How can I qualify her? I'd call her at least a calamitous person on the form. Basically, I think it's more serious than that. Finally, I think that since the beginning you have a fairly ideological view of the management of your department, but also that the decisions you make are made in disregard of the rule of law, which does not fail to cause you many problems afterwards. In the meantime, I would say that ultimately, the main beneficiaries of your policy are not scientists but lawyers. A lot of money is spent uselessly with them to deal with legal disputes that bring nothing. We talked a long time ago about the polar station. This is the destiny of BELSPO. The auditor of the Council of State gave a clear opinion on what I'm going to call your manipulations to oust the former boss of BELSPO. The auditor recommends the annulment of the following three decisions: the non-renewal of Mr Philippe Mettens' duties at the head of BELSPO, the inextremis modification of certain characteristics of the position he occupied and, finally, the provisional designation at the head of BELSPO of the person who replaced him. So, in short, Madam Secretary of State, you're going to be down on the whole line and for us, that's all but a surprise. You'll tell me, the listener's only giving one opinion. At this point, it is true, it is an opinion since we do not yet have the Council of State's ruling, but the press tells us that it is imminent, that in the next few days, this week probably, the decision will fall. So, on the content of the judgment, when it is delivered, we will probably come back to the substance of the judgment, but recent experience has shown us that the Council of State, in the vast majority of cases, is following the opinion of its auditor. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary of State. If the auditor's opinion is followed by the Council of State, what are you going to do? You will then have two presidents, one of whom will automatically be dismissed since his appointment would have been illegal. And then you will have to rework with the one you ousted from his post by making every effort to that end. When we come back to the content, which is not the subject of this question, we will see the various manoeuvres that have been carried out not to renew it, which would have been the logical and fair decision given the legal procedures. What is your appreciation of the successive disavowals of your acts recognized as illegal by the Council of State? Can you tell us what amounts the government spent on legal fees to put Mr. Mettens on the side, presumably illegally? I already asked you about a Lydian bill about a year ago. Finally, at the time of tabling my question, I was not yet aware of the draft agenda of the Council of Ministers on Thursday, 24 November. It is my responsibility to note that there has been an item on the creation of the Belgian Space Agency, which is accelerating the dismantling of BELSPO. Is that a coincidence in the calendar? We've only known the listener's opinion for a few days, but I guess you've been informed for two months. So, did you anticipate this decision of the Council of State about the former President of BELSPO? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u51	I'll read you the stop that just fell.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u52	We live the decision live, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u53	Yes. It was decided that Mr. Delcourt would remain at his post for the time being. In addition, Mr Mettens' request was rejected. That is why it is necessary to examine this judgment. As far as legal fees are concerned, I can reassure you. Although this case may seem spectacular, it is almost banal in legal terms. In this case, we paid Mr. Jacubowitz 40,602.54 euros from Xirius Lawyers. But you see, the stop just came. I think it is necessary to examine it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We're really live since, at the moment you answer me, we're getting to know this stop. Like you, I would like to take note of this decision. It would appear that in that case the auditor's opinion would not have been followed, which is quite exceptional, it seems. If that is the case, I think we will come back to the content of this judgment. You have not confirmed to me whether it is correct that on Thursday's agenda there is, in particular, the draft law establishing a Belgian inter-federal space agency. We can ask you again about this. We are opposed to this policy of dismantling our scientific policy, which includes this inter-federal agency. This implies that there has been consultation with the Regions and the Communities. I'll ask you more questions. But in any case, on the agenda, I say it to bring debate to my reply, is the removal of the Federal Public Programming Service from the Federal Science Policy and the transfer of the missions of the services, entities, means and personnel of the Federal Public Programming Service from the Federal Science Policy. In my view, there is a link between the former president's non-renewal and your willingness to dismantle this department. We have opposed it and will continue to oppose it in the future. This is a preliminary draft. We will see what follow-up will be reserved for this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u55	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the next ESA Ministerial Council will take place on December 1 and 2, 2016 in Lucerne. As part of the preparation of this Council, it was envisaged that the Federal Science Policy would draw up a space report setting out the status of Belgium's previous commitments in space programmes and the impact of those commitments. In addition, a survey of actors in the Belgian space sector was under way to update economic data. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of this case? Has the Federal Science Policy done well in its space report? If so, what are the broad outlines? If not, why is this not the case? Is the Belgian position now determined? What is she? If not, would it not be urgent to address this issue? Is the survey of space sector actors to update economic data now complete? What does this mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, preparations for the ESA Ministerial Conference of 1 and 2 December 2016 are under way. I have made a proposal for subscription to the various programmes proposed by ESA to its Member States. In order to take account of any changes that ESA might add at the last minute, I will not submit my proposal to the Council of Ministers until just before the ESA Ministerial Conference. My proposal will be discussed by the Council of Ministers on time so that the ESA Ministerial Conference can be successful. Before each ESA Ministerial Conference, the Space Service traditionally prepares a report, which is also the case this time. This indicates that progress is being made towards the implementation of the ongoing ESA programmes. At the same time, this report confirms a number of known challenges for the near future for which the Interfederal Space Agency offers a solution. The need for the creation of an Interfederal Space Agency is therefore confirmed by this report. The report also states that the breakdown of space activities among the three federated entities following the 2014 Ministerial Conference is not sufficient. This could be expected and, already in 2014, the Council of Ministers had decided that the ESA Ministerial Conference should correct this imbalance. My proposal meets this requirement. The report of the Space Service and the report on economic indicators for the Belgian space sector will be published as soon as it is known to the Council of Ministers on the occasion of its decision on the December ESA Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answers to my various questions. I think the debate was fruitful this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u58	I give the floor to Mr. Calomne, although there is a challenge to ministerial competence on this issue. As Mr Calomne insisted, the item was on the agenda. Mr Calomne, I give you the floor, and then we will see what will be the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u59	Mr President, I insisted that, according to information which I was able to read, this question was essentially addressed to Mrs Sleurs. I would also like to ask Mr Jambon the question in relation to the aspect which is more specifically concerned with buildings. I could have renamed my question by talking about the situation of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium. Madam Secretary of State, last February, the state of the buildings of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium covered the chronicle. Water leaks into the roofs had caused the movement of some canvases, as well as the placement of buckets in the exhibition rooms in order to collect the water. This situation had aroused the emotion of public opinion, which, as you know, attaches great importance to the preservation of our national heritage. Unfortunately, nine months have passed and despite some repairs which, according to my information, had actually been decided several years ago, the difficulties on the ground do not seem to have disappeared. Indeed, leaks are still not sealed and buckets are still there, despite the fact that your balance sheet of 23 July, of which I was able to read, states: "No more roof leaks!" under the "Tasks Done" tab. Madam Secretary of State, this is obviously an unacceptable situation which gives a very poor image of our museums and our national heritage. The cup is full, if I may say so, for some citizens who do not hesitate to say so clearly, but also for museum agents who, every day, carry out meritorious work under sometimes difficult conditions. It is therefore necessary to act quickly in order to restore a suitable framework of activities within these museums and to give a positive image of them. In a long-term vision, the federal government has released more than 145 million dollars for large-scale repair work, particularly under the leadership of the Régie des Bâtiments and its responsible minister. The funds are on the table, the will is clear and evident, but the issues need to progress and materialize. However, according to the information which I have been able to read, it seems that the costing studies have not yet been launched. I also remember that part of the budget for renovations would actually be stuck between your firm and the MRBABs. So, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following questions in order to be clearly informed on this matter. Despite what the July 23 balance sheet says, how is it that leak problems are again found in the roofs? What steps have been taken to close these leaks as soon as possible? Can you give us an overview of the repair work? Is it true that some of the funds for renovations are stuck, at this stage, between your firm and the MRBABs? If so, can you give us details of these elements and explain the difficulties encountered? What do you intend to do to solve the problems and restore the situation, in collaboration with the MRBABs? It is important to clarify things in that a lot of information is published in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u60	Mr Calomne, as you said, this is the responsibility of the minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. However, I can inform you that work is under way on the roof of the patio. On several occasions, in 2015 and 2016 (four times), one-time roof repairs were carried out for amounts less than €500,000. On November 17, 2016, the Régie asked the contractor to immediately resolve the problem on the roof of the Rubens Hall. These interventions are ad hoc because the Council of Ministers approved the major restoration plan in May. In this context, roofs will be treated as a priority in 2017. For the answer to these plans, I am obliged to send you back to the Minister of the Interior, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr Jambon. I would also point out that there is no blocking of funding between my firm and the MRBABs. I don't know where you got that information, which is in no way correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic538x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, ask Minister Jambon a question for further technical information. I take note, however, of the intervention that took place on 17 November. This is a relatively topical element concerning the blocking to which I referred. As I was telling you, this information is public, since it is published in the press. I'm acting on the denial that you're opposing. It would be wise to clarify the situation with the public through a press release. Indeed, this represents a negative image of these institutions, which are doing a considerable amount of work. And it is important to be clear about this. In short, I will come back to your colleague for further information on this matter which has been discussed for several months.
