ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister because the subject had been raised in the framework of a European Council, but I am pleased to hear your answers because I suspect that you were also concerned with the problem. Recently, the European Commission has proposed a new common asylum system that incorporates what was already present in the Dublin procedure: the principle of first entry. However, this principle will be accompanied by a new mechanism of corrective solidarity in the event of a large influx of refugees. The European Commission proposes to set a reference threshold for each Member State which would be calculated on the basis of GDP, the size of the Member State and the efforts already made to resettle refugees in third countries. Once the threshold is exceeded by more than 50%, an automatic mechanism for the redistribution of asylum seekers between the different Member States will be set up. Not all Member States will be forced to participate in this new common asylum system, but the European Commission has set up an important incentive mechanism. Indeed, any Member State which chooses not to participate will have to contribute EUR 250 000 per refugee, which will have to be returned to the Member State which will take care of the refugee in question. Finally, the European Commission also plans to set up a Community Agency for Asylum to manage the fair relocation mechanism, to ensure cooperation between Member States and to ensure the convergence of the actions they will implement. The European Asylum Support Office, EASO, would become a genuine European Union Agency for Asylum. Mr Secretary of State, could you give us your opinion on this proposal for a reform of the European Commission? Unfortunately, this issue already dates back to May and I have not questioned the Prime Minister since. So, what is the status of this reform project? Can you tell us what effort will be required of our country in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u2	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I was stuck in traffic jams. I was held up by the traffic jams, for which I apologize. It's the first time this has happened. I always try to be on time. Geert Bourgeois has taught me that we can be late everywhere, except in Parliament. I'm trying to stick to that. You can't believe how much I cursed today. You can say I have to leave early, no matter what I usually do. Today, however, it was impossible because of circumstances. I apologize for that. Mr Crusnière, Belgium's starting position is that the Dublin revision must lead to a simplified and more efficient system under which the link between border management and the country of first entry is maintained. It is precisely at the borders of the European Union that an identification, a screening and an initial registration must be made. The asylum application of people who are obviously not well-founded – I am thinking here, for example, of nationals of safe countries – should be dealt with quickly at the external border with, if possible, accompanying a return procedure. For the rest, relocation could be considered within the framework of intra-European solidarity. It is important for each country to do its part, including the countries of first entry. Belgium welcomes the proposal as a whole. Indeed, the fact that this proposal seeks to maintain the responsibility of the Member States of first entry and that it provides that those countries are responsible for examining the admissibility of the application and, where appropriate, for the return, seems to me to be satisfactory. Moreover, the system of burden-sharing for asylum seekers calculated on the basis of GDP and population size will allow a more equitable distribution of refugees. In addition, the corrective mechanism for almost automatic relocation of applicants when a Member State is under significant pressure is also an essential element. It will enable Member States to show greater solidarity among themselves. Nevertheless, there are still a number of elements that need to be addressed. First, the corrective mechanism is likely to be applied frequently in Greece and Italy. So to what extent will the Dublin rules still apply to these two countries? Secondly, we strongly oppose the extension of family members to brothers and sisters, as is the case with the majority of other Member States. Thirdly, in practice, Member States not participating in solidarity will have to make a financial contribution. With regard to the effort required of Belgium, the calculation method is based on a reference key based on population size and GDP. The percentage obtained after calculation therefore corresponds to the share of each Member State in the total number of asylum seekers arriving in the European Union. Through an automated system, continuous and automatic counting of the load of each Member State will be carried out. This count will take into account asylum seekers for whom the Member State is responsible, persons resettled and also inadmissible applications for which it will have to deal with removal. Although the percentage attributed to each Member State has not yet been officially communicated to them, it appears to be based on a total of similar arrivals in 2015. The effort required of Belgium will be less than it had to make during the 2015 migration crisis. On Dublin III, negotiations are under way. The Presidency of Slovakia is not making matters easier. It is a country of the Visegrád Group, which is absolutely opposed to a compulsory distribution system. You know that Mr Orbán held a referendum, which he won, but which he also lost, because he did not obtain a majority. A very important meeting is taking place this Thursday evening. I had to ask the chair that our three bills be postponed until next week. It is an informal ministerial meeting only on Dublin III, on the Presidency of Slovakia and on the proposal from Slovakia and the Visegrád countries on distribution. They don't want a mandatory distribution. They want a voluntary distribution. But how can this work on a voluntary basis? I have a lot of questions about that. We're going to see Thursday night. Belgium is committed to the proposal made and defended by our Prime Minister, Mr Reynders and myself, that the Schengen States (Italy, Greece) should be asked to apply Dublin as planned, which is currently not the case. There is also a need for greater solidarity with these countries. Otherwise, there will be no possibility of a Dublin agreement. Other member countries such as Italy and Greece will never agree with a system whereby they must welcome everyone. It'll be impossible. It's unthinkable, too. If I were a minister in Italy, I would find it logical. Today, if we want to apply the Dublin Convention, we must show that Belgium is not the first country in the European Union or the Schengen area that these people have passed through, as is the case for 90% of them. Unless they arrive at the airport, they can only have crossed another Schengen country before arriving in Belgium because all the countries around Belgium are part of the Schengen area. It cannot be otherwise, but it is not easy to demonstrate it. To me, it is clear that logic must be reversed. The logic must be reversed. Instead of proving that his first country of entry is not Belgium, the asylum seeker should prove that his first country of entry is Belgium. That is a much more logical and obvious application of the Dublin Treaty. That is also entirely within the framework. There must be an adjustment, but that logic is very hard to do. I have been in contact with a number of European colleagues over the last few days and hours. That is a very good story for my fellow Members. I'll put the file on the table. We'll see what comes out of it. It will certainly be a very interesting discussion. For a few weeks now there has been a great deal of play here on Dublin III and on the new asylum procedure directive. In the coming weeks and months, we will be landing on this issue. I do not know whether that landing will come under the Slovak Presidency. We have to wait and see. The Slovaks were never really in a hurry, because they're actually against the whole system. So we shall see. Malta will deliver the next president in a month and a half. I am speaking this afternoon with the new President, the Minister for the Interior of Malta, on the issue. We will wait and see what Malta is doing in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. However, you did not reply with regard to the establishment of the European Union Agency for Asylum. Is there progress in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u4	Yeah, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u5	We will continue to follow the negotiations. This is a project that will be important. As you said, this is based on an essential element, solidarity. The latter is of paramount importance to my group. We will have to see how we can "strengthen" this solidarity. The management of this migratory flow must be carried out on several fronts but must also be based on a certain solidarity vis-à-vis Greece and Italy, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, in the last week of July you went to work in Denmark. During that two-day visit, you revealed that you are working on a legal and practical framework that will require asylum seekers to have their mobile phone and laptop screened for information about their real identity. Their Facebook profile would also be checked in that sense. Legally, this would be explicitly registered in the transposition of the European Directive which makes this possible. You also want police officers to be present at the Foreign Office to do these screenings. You also said that screening is necessary because the majority of asylum seekers are unclear about one or more aspects of their identity. Of course, traces can also be found on their mobile or laptop that can confirm or contradict the story of an asylum seeker. Also checking a Facebook profile can be useful in that sense. Today an asylum seeker could only be asked to make his mobile phone or laptop available and have it screened, but he is not obliged to do so. Apparently, the vast majority do not oppose it because a refusal could be a negative element in the file. So, legally, this isn't settled. Hence my questions. Can you clarify your plans in the short term? How do you see the co-operation with the police to carry out the screenings? Was there any consultation with the Home Secretary's cabinet on this? At what stage of the procedure will these screenings be possible? Will it become mandatory for any asylum seeker or only if there is doubt about the story of the person concerned? When can we expect a draft law on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, the press echoed your bill to force asylum seekers to subject their gsms and laptops to a check to establish their identity. In your view, the European Directive makes it possible to implement such a provision in Belgium. Police officers will be present at the Foreign Office to carry out this operation. In practical terms, the application of Article 8 of the European Court of Human Rights implies that only infringements of privacy which meet certain conditions are allowed. Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Convention provides that "there shall be no interference by any public authority in the exercise of this right unless such interference is provided for by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the defence of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others." At that time, you said that between 60 and 70 per cent of asylum seekers were lying about an aspect of their identity, whether it was their name or age, their journey or their country of origin. However, according to the May 2016 CGRA figures, the proportion of persons granted refugee status by CGRA (51.6%) or subsidiary protection status (11.2%) is 62.8%. Finally, I would like to recall your colleague, Mr Jambon,'s answer to the same question. He said he didn't have any information about gsm checks. For him, it simply required a screening based on the identity of the people. For him, they're not criminals and he was going to check if they're included in our databases or international databases. But it is based on the principle that they are not criminals and therefore does not see why one should trace their gsm. Mr Secretary of State, on what legal basis do you intend to implement your project? Is there not a contradiction between your alarmist speech and the CGRA figures on the total number of people who are the subject of a final decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u8	Mrs Gabriels, I am glad to be able to answer this question. Firstly, I launched this proposal when I was in Denmark. I made that proposal when I was in Denmark. In Denmark this is done systematically, in Norway this is done systematically, in the Netherlands this is done systematically. This is happening systematically, not only with mobile phones but also with laptops, within the current European asylum acquis. None of these three countries have ever been convicted of that. People from my cabinet have been visiting the Netherlands and Denmark, I have been to Norway. That's something I really think we should do. Are asylum seekers treated like criminals in this way? No, absolutely not. For at least 60 to 70 % of them, elements from their story do not add up. Many of them are recognized. It's not because one element of the story is wrong, that someone is automatically rejected. A person who has been effectively threatened and meets the criteria of the Geneva Convention can nevertheless be recognised as a refugee, even if he is not entirely telling the truth about his journey. Let's get this straight. There is therefore no point in mentioning one percentage to contradict the other. That's certainly not how I meant it. I also think that one should be careful with the word mentir or lying. I don't know if I said that either. I have always learned that the word "lie" is used as little as possible in the Rue de la Loi. In other words, I can say that they are violating the truth. That's not like saying someone's lying, words make reality. The procedural directive allows an asylum seeker to search in order to ensure that he actually complies with his obligation to cooperate in telling a correct asylum story. The legislative proposal transposing that directive allows and allows the CVGS to ask an asylum seeker to show his mobile phone and laptop to verify his story. In the event of refusal, this will be considered as a refusal to cooperate, which will have a negative impact on the credibility of his account and therefore also on the final outcome of his asylum application. Depending on the elements that contain its mobile or laptop, the CVGS can also inform the parquet. We intend to collect some useful data from mobile phones and laptops during the asylum application, such as the travel route travelled, name, date of birth, country of origin and so on. On the basis of that information, the applicant's statements may be confirmed or questioned. I think it is important to verify the identity of the applicant at the beginning of the asylum procedure. We need to know who's right in front of us. Surely that is our right as a host country. We must immediately verify who enters our country. This is in our own interest, in the interest of all the inhabitants of Belgium. That is our right, by the way. That is why we are also considering the possibility of involving police officers in the Foreign Affairs Office to establish the identity of asylum seekers at the time of filing the application. Of course, I talked to my colleague, Jan Jambon. We discuss many issues, including those related to asylum. You know that in the face of the asylum crisis, we have developed a management, and not least, in Belgium. It is also the result of the optimal and effective collaboration between our two firms. I also consider it important to verify, from the outset, the identity of the asylum-seeker for security reasons. It is also for this reason that I am considering the presence of police officers at the Foreign Office, in order to verify the identity at the time of the asylum application, which is already applicable. In many cases, questions may arise about the declarations of asylum seekers. I therefore intend to collect, as part of an asylum application, a number of useful information via GSMs and laptops, such as travel itinerary, name, date of travel, country of origin, etc. Such evidence may confirm or cast doubt on the claimant's statements. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that the asylum-seeker must identify himself correctly. I don't understand what the problem is. He has to say who he really is. That makes sense. We're not going to check his identity through his country's embassy! We will never do that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u9	I didn't ask you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u11	I never said you didn't have the right to ask for identity. My request concerns something else. I asked you what the legal basis was.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u12	My office is in contact with the Minister of the Interior to agree on practical arrangements. Collaboration with the police in this area is likely to have added value. Indeed, she has the necessary expertise in reading gsm and laptops. It also has the necessary equipment, which is not our case. CGRA is competent to do so, unlike the Foreign Office. But he's already working with the police. However, there is currently no permanent screening for all asylum-seekers. Would that be necessary? Are we entitled to do so? In my opinion, yes! In addition, collaboration with the police is also crucial in the area of second-line follow-up. As a first step, useful information on asylum applications and identification will be collected. Secondly, there will be elements that can be thoroughly investigated, such as in the case of trafficking in human beings, human trafficking, public order, radicalism and terrorism. I can answer your third question as follows. This will be done as soon as possible in the procedure. As far as I am concerned, screening can take place immediately upon entry if the asylum application is made. This screening of identity will take place with each asylum seeker when submitting the application for asylum. The screening and other elements of the travel story will be done by the CGVS, if the CGVS has good reasons to believe that the applicant is withholding information, documents, documents or other elements that are essential for a concrete and correct assessment of the asylum application. The CGRA is responsible. Finally, the draft law transposing the Asylum Procedure Directive with the above mentioned measures to ensure compliance with the asylum seeker's obligation to cooperate will be finalised in the course of 2017. We had a last meeting yesterday and I think it was a good one. There are still a number of bottlenecks within the government, but I am convinced that we will land in the coming weeks. Then it has to go to the Council of State. Then it will soon be the end of December. So I will probably come to Parliament in January or February with the transposition of the asylum procedure directive. I know we're late. There are all the circumstances for that, but I admit we're too late. However, it is important to do so now. In particular, the elements on correct identification in the Asylum Procedure Directive will be enormously, enormously useful to do better than they are now. There are often too many questions about the correct identification of asylum seekers, because we are not sure who they are right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u13	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am therefore waiting for the draft bill to be discussed. Proper verification of the identity of the persons concerned is the right of a host country. We are waiting to see what is actually going to be in the draft law. That will be one element in the procedure that should not lead directly to a negative decision. It is already reassuring that it is one element. I also understand that you're going to call more on police forces. There will therefore have to be some sort of consultation with the colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In short, we must wait until next year to get the project, Mr Franken, and understand on what legal basis you are going to establish this political measure. That other countries, like the Netherlands and Denmark, should do so is a good initiative on their part, but on what basis? I am still waiting, and I have not received any evidence today that shows on what legal basis you are going to base this bill. Second, you're the one who said people were lying. Today, you say that there may be inaccuracies in the narrative elements of a refugee candidate's journey. On 29 June, you said that 60 to 70 per cent of asylum-seekers are lying about an aspect of their identity, whether it is the name, age, route they have followed from their country of origin. Today, you tell us that we can identify errors of appreciation, inaccuracies, which may not even be taken into account in sanctioning them. We are in the most characteristic Franken method. You first launch a declaratory which casts reproach, suspicion on a group of individuals - here political refugees - and then, in committee in Parliament, you change your speech somewhat. We recognize your method. This is particularly hypocritical: at first, the impression is given that the phenomenon is real and widespread, and then we resume. When you spread assumptions about opposition, that you wouldn't want to control people...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u16	Yes! "We still have to control," implied, "you don't want us to exercise control." But, how can you make such a point? We're not telling you you can't control people. You have the right, with the services, to control people. But when it comes to going into computers and gsm, what we are asking you is to create the legal basis and distinguish this between a judicial investigation against criminals and a work to be carried out in the context of the reception of political refugees. We are waiting for real answers, but that would be for next year, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u17	Very briefly, however, Mr Kir. Firstly, it concerns the Directive 2013/32/EU. You ask what it is about, well, that is the specific directive on which I base myself. Secondly, the federal police already have the legal authority to identify people. I don't know the exact article in the police law, but a police officer can take steps to make a proper identification of a citizen. It already is. You say this is the typical Francken method.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u19	We were in Denmark at the time and the journalist concerned is just in my field of vision here in the Chamber. I do not want to start a discussion here about whether I have actually used the word "lie." I believe that the most important thing I said was that I know where it was in the context of a lecture...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u21	Why don't you let me finish? That's a press release, written by someone who's here, a valued journalist who was in the room at the time. It was a lecture, a presentation by the Danish police at the Copenhagen airport. A lecture was given there, and very interesting slides have emerged in which, among other things, it was about the identification and the way the immigration police dealt with this in Denmark. That's when the question came to mind. I don't remember using the verb "liegen". I won't deny it if I do. I don't think that's very important. In any case, what we are talking about is that there are elements in a large part of the asylum seekers that are incorrect, which have been deliberately wrongly passed on to our asylum services. Sometimes that's the way to travel, sometimes that's the identity, sometimes that's the age. All the statistics show that. You know perfectly well that the age study we do with unaccompanied minors exposes a huge fraud. A lot of these young people, Mrs Smeyers, are asking for figures every six months on 'young people' who say they are underage. This applies to 70% of all persons under investigation. Those are hallucinating numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u23	Half of them are under investigation, Mrs. Lanjri. Of these, 70% are of age with a margin of more than one year. Those are the numbers that everyone knows. They're tough and hard to deny. That's what I said. If the word "lie" is used, I take it back, because I think lying is a tough word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u24	You're sinking, Mr. Franken! You're talking about detail. It's not a detail. Between saying that some stories include misrepresentations, inaccuracies and saying that it is a lie, it is not a detail! These are totally different things. It's gravissim! Through your statements, you cast reproach on a large part of the population who is a refugee and, on the other hand, when you come back here in front of us, you show white feet. That is the Franken method since the beginning of the legislature. The statements are beyond the laws and what is morally acceptable but when you come back here - and I find that you have talent, you still have qualities, I have always recognized it - you have this talent to tell us: "But no, I have been misunderstood! It was the journalists who did not report well, etc." I'm not finished, Mr. Franken. I'm trying to dissect and analyze your communication. So you say you didn't say it, that it was misreported and in the end you add: "And if I said it, I apologize." What a talent! When the articles were published on June 29, did you make a statement the same day or the next day to deny it? Did you say: "I, Mr Franken, Secretary of State, register falsely in relation to these statements"? Nothing, until today! In the debate in Parliament, when I ask you about your statements, you say: "That's not what I said. It was reported as such but that's not what I really wanted to say." In the end, you end with: "If I said so, I regret it and it is a detail!" Is it a matter of accusing people of lying?" 60-70% of refugee candidates lie!. Do you know what a refugee's journey is? We'll be back in the next interrogation. Under what conditions does the candidate arrive here? With everything we know about his journey, do you think for a second that he is in an optimal mental state to express himself? He doesn't know the procedures! I believe that what we must above all remind each and every time in this type of situation, and especially in your area of competence, is that your primary role as Secretary of State is to protect the people who arrive in the territory. This is the first responsibility you have and not to present them as you do unfortunately since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have read carefully the fifth report on relocation and resettlement. This report provides an update on the implementation of relocation and resettlement programmes that were developed during the migration crisis. One of the lessons learned from this report, which dates back to September, is that the pace of relocation remains much lower than originally planned. Since September 2015, only 3,056 refugees have actually been relocated out of a total of 106,000. One of the consequences of the slow relocation is that migrants waiting to cross the borders of a European country gather in improvised camps, mainly in Italy. In this regard, I thank you for the figures you provided me on asylum applications in 2016. It shows that there are more than 105,000 applications in Italy! Mr Secretary of State, after this observation has been made, can you tell me whether you have discussed the matter with your European counterparts in order to remedy this situation? What solutions have been proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as part of the European asylum policy more than a year ago, arrangements were made for the relocation and resettlement of refugees. Agreements were reached on the relocation of 160 000 refugees from the border Member States, mainly Greece and Italy, to other Member States. Of this number, 98 255 people have already been allocated to a particular country of the European Union. Most places have already been cleared, but implementation still needs to follow; 93 586 people still need to be relocated. Until now, the relocation to another country has been carried out for only a limited number of people. Belgium freed 230 seats, of which 119 were filled in, 19 from Italy and 90 from Greece, at least at the time I submitted my question, at the beginning of September. Both in 2015, and in 2016, we had to resettle 550 people. In an earlier question, you indicated that there are a number of phases to be completed and that the relocation is sometimes delayed by circumstances that are not due to our country. My questions are as follows. What is the state of play today? How many relocations and resettlements have been carried out so far? Which countries do these people mainly come from? How many relocations and resettlements were made from Turkey as part of the deal between Europe and Turkey? You mentioned earlier that we are dependent on other organisations, such as UNHCR and the IOM. Are we still facing delays today, or are these children's diseases behind us? A total of 3 696 seats were allocated to us and 3 500 of them still have to be filled in. How do you plan this? What's your timing? When will the next pledges be done? Have there been pledges done in the last few months? How's the shelter going with us? Finally, with regard to the revision of Dublin and a new system of solidarity, will Europe's new negotiations have an effect on what was previously agreed? Will the new agreements apply to new refugees? Will the number of 160 000 be revised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, 119 refugees have arrived from Greece and Italy. As a first step, the European Resettlement Agreement provided for 3,693 people to be accommodated in our country. So we are far from the commitment we made – less than 10%. A total of 93,586 places had been distributed throughout the European Union. Since then, only 13,478 places have been opened and 4,741 persons have benefited from these resettlement measures. Mr Secretary of State, what are the reasons for this delay? Do you think our country will be able to deliver on its commitments? On the other hand, today you have taken the decision to withdraw Belgian experts working in Greece. Mr President, if I may, I would also like to ask you about this. Indeed, we can speak of a real worsening of the situation for refugees in Greece. It's chaos. You invoke the deterioration of the situation to justify your choice and ask the Greek government to intervene urgently to ensure the safety of workers. The article released this morning also notes that the refugees had fired at European services, where our experts are in particular present. They were motivated by the slowness of the proceedings and the lack of response. We also know that threats are being made on a daily basis, as you stated in your statement today. So you have asked, and it is to your honour, that the procedures be speeded up. I can understand that staff guarantees and speeding up procedures are being requested, but is withdrawing from the ground a good answer? By withdrawing today, do we provide a sufficient response to the emergency problem that will arise? It's November 16th. We're in the middle of winter. The climate situation will worsen. Think for a second of the refugees waiting to receive answers from Europe! It is understandable that a decision is taken to protect the security and physical integrity of our fellow countrymen on the spot, but this is not a response to the needs of asylum seekers. So I really ask myself whether this answer is not too fast. Should it not be taken in the context of a discussion with the other European states in order to define the most appropriate answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u28	Mr Kir, let me point out to you that you have departed from the subject of your question and that Question No 14724 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux relates to the situation in the hotspots. The answer to your questions on this subject will therefore be given to you when dealing with the above question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u29	I said it, right from the start. I do not think it makes any sense to speak here of a somewhat outdated subject and that the current situation requires clarification from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u30	Mr President, I will answer on regularisation and relocation. I understand the concerns very well. It would be a bit of a lack of respect for Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, who constantly asks questions about the situation in the hotspots. I sent a letter to Mr Mouzalas, my Greek colleague. That's not the first time. I will have that letter distributed here, Mr Kir, at least you have that letter on the security situation, what is going on and what we have done in the past. I brought that case to the JHA Council. We sent a letter. The EASO sent a letter. Mr Dirk Van den Bulck has already sent letters. We have raised this matter on several occasions. I have spoken to Mr Mouzalas in private several times, with whom I have a good relationship. However, the situation is becoming more unsafe. We cannot put our staff in danger. That was the case in the last few weeks. If there are no additional security measures, such as the deployment of more soldiers and police on the islands and the conduct of interviews outside the refugee camps and not in them, then we will withdraw them. What else do I have to do? That's a responsibility, too. If anything happens tomorrow, you will be the first to ask questions, which would be right, by the way. The letter will be distributed. For the rest, I will reply to Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's question later. I now come to the figures on resettlement. In 2015, the Member States of the European Union decided to set up a relocation system from Greece and Italy. Our country has always supported this initiative inspired by a vision of European collaboration based on responsibility and solidarity. The other Member States should assist Greece and Italy through the resumption of asylum seekers and the provision of operational assistance. In return, these two countries would commit themselves to putting their asylum systems in order and to work for systematic and consistent monitoring, identification and registration of all persons entering the European Union. We have made great progress, of course. At the moment, our country has already promised 530 places for relocation. These are 130 places from Italy and 400 places from Greece. To this day, 206 people have already arrived effectively, 29 from Italy and 177 from Greece. The relics from Greece were almost all Syrians and Iraqis. From Italy it was almost exclusively Eritreans. As a reminder, only nationalities with a degree of recognition of at least 75% are eligible for relocation. At the moment, they are only people from Eritrea and Syria, not even Iraq anymore. As regards resettlement, 428 refugees have arrived in Belgium in 2016. They are almost exclusively Syrian refugees, mainly from Lebanon and Turkey, and to a lesser extent from Jordan and Egypt. With this we are on track to achieve our European commitment of 1 100 resettlements in the period 2015-2017. 573 of these 1 100 people have already arrived in our country. A selection mission is currently taking place in Turkey for another 150 refugees. As part of the EU-Turkey deal, we have already relocated 102 Syrians from Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u32	These persons are included: 102 people from Turkey as part of the EU-Turkey deal. Resettlement is a complex process involving several national and international partners. We are indeed dependent on the UNHCR and the IOM for the implementation of the programme. For example, for resettlement from Turkey, Belgium has tried, as one of the first countries, to resettle refugees under the one-to-one resettlement mechanism, which has entered into force since 4 April. Since Belgium had not yet set a resettlement quota for Turkey at that time, it was not possible to organise the selection immediately for other Member States such as the Netherlands, Finland, Germany and France. The first CGVS selection mission could only be organised at the end of June 2016. The first departures were planned around August 10th, but that date also had to be left, including as a result of the coup attempt in Turkey on July 15th and the complex process for obtaining exit permits. It has not been very stable in Turkey in recent months, as everyone knows. After the coup attempt it was very unstable and we simply did not get exit permits because there were other priorities. For this procedure we depend on the IOM and the Turkish Migration Service, and there too delays are possible. Following the coup attempt, the late transfer of possible resettlement files from the Turkish Migration Service to UNHR and UNHCR's limited capacity to receive selection missions, the timing of the second CGVS selection mission in Turkey also had to be adjusted and moved to a later date. What about the rest of the relocation quota of 3 606? On 16 September 2016, Belgium offered 300 new sites, namely 200 to Greece and 100 to Italy. It is important to note that our country has opened up 30 places to the extremely vulnerable category of unaccompanied minors. Further pledges will be made, taking into account the needs on the ground, the capacity of the reception network in our country and the operational obstacles in the relocation process. We note that, alongside Belgium, other European countries are stepping up the pace of their pledges on relocation. At the same time, we must also take into account the fact that the total quota for relocation from Italy and Greece is currently higher than the number of effective candidates. There are no 3 606 candidates for whom a higher level of protection than 75% applies, i.e. Syrians or Eritreans, in the hotspots in Italy and Greece to come to Belgium. Let us say that we would like to destabilize the entire quota of 95 000 people, which are not there. There are no 95,000 Syrians or Eritreans in the hotspots. The offer must always be taken into account. After all, only asylum seekers with a high risk of recognition, i.e. with an EU level of protection of more than 75%, are eligible for relocation. At the moment this is primarily about Syrians and Eritreans. Other nationalities such as Iraqis or Afghans are no longer covered. In all likelihood, therefore, the European relocation quotas will never be fully filled. The reception of asylum seekers arriving in our country in the context of relocation and resettlement takes place as for any asylum seeker. After arriving at the airport in Belgium, IOM will accompany the asylum seekers to DVZ, where they will officially apply for asylum in Belgium. After the official asylum application, they will go to the Dispatching Department of Fedasil, where they will be assigned a place of refuge. They'll follow the classic childcare model you all know. The refugees arriving under the resettlement programme are temporarily received, about four to six weeks, in a specialised centre of Fedasil, in Florennes, Kapellen, Pondrôme and Sint-Truiden. Besides classical services, such as medical and social follow-up, they enjoy information sessions and basic language lessons in Dutch or French. They are then transferred to an adapted house in a Belgian municipality with a LOI. So they go to a LOI, where they are supported in addition to social support in the search for a sustainable home. Fedasil also cooperates with partner OCMW debt holders in the framework of resettlement. What about those countries that refuse to do relocation? The Member States are bound by these Council decisions on relocation and it is the European Commission's prerogative to ensure that they respect them. Mr Crusnière, we discussed this on the first question. It's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. Yes, it's not easy. The knot, it's here. We said that in the first question. You say that this is progressing very fast, but when we see the figures for September at European Union level, we had 106 000. We have a relocation of just over 3,000 people. This poses a lot of problems. And what we are not talking about enough is the situation in which all these migrants are now in the camps. Whether in Greece or Italy, it becomes more and more complicated given the influx and living conditions. Here too, we will have to be attentive and be able to provide a concrete response. I will return to the problem of MENA in these camps in a later question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u34	Mr President, we still have an important way to go: there are still 3 306 places to go. You say you're on schedule and a number of childhood diseases have been eliminated. You also note that the pledges in other countries are now moving faster. That's good to know. It has now been agreed that the level of protection should be higher than 75%. As a result, we may never touch so many people, because many refugees from those countries do not touch the 75% level of protection. Take Iraq: that country was there before, but now suddenly it isn't. I understand that, but at the same time I follow you in your other reasoning. Dublin will have to be reformed, but it must also remain in some form. However, this can only be done if there is a great deal of solidarity with the countries at our borders, such as Greece and Italy. Otherwise, it is untenable for these countries to receive all refugees. That 75% limit can also be revised, not to open the gate to anyone, but to open the gate to people who have been recognised as refugees. If they have gone through the selection procedure and come from a country with a degree of recognition of 60%, when they have received recognition, for example because they have not fled their country because of violence or war, but because they have fled as gay Uganda, then something must be possible. Otherwise, as you know, we will find ourselves in a situation where Greece and Italy are left with massive numbers of refugees. At present only Syria and Eritrea are above 75%. All other nationalities also form a large group in the long term. 60 000 people are trapped in Greece alone, of which 12 000 are on the islands. For today and tomorrow at the informal summit, that may also be a point to put on the table. This may need to be reviewed, so that we always rely on people who really need protection. We're not going to bring economic migrants to Belgium first, then send them back. That wouldn't be a good thing. However, when it comes to people who are recognised and who are protected in those countries, they must also have a fair distribution plan. I'm talking about people who have been given effective protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u35	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u36	You could bring those percentages down, but only for the recognised refugees. I take Uganda as an example. It may be that the degree of recognition for Uganda is very low, but that the people we recognise are being prosecuted, for example because they are gay. I've been to Catania, in Sicily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u38	The system will be revised and reformed. You yourself said that there will never be 90 000 Eritreans or Syrians. They are not currently in Greece and Italy, but there are a lot of others. However, we must ensure that people who have already completed the selection procedure and have been selected by UNHCR and IOM are effectively distributed, even if the degree of recognition is lower. The 75% limit can therefore be reduced, but we must continue to apply the criterion that it should be for people who need protection effectively. I was in Catania myself in September, in Sicily. I've visited a number of hotspots and refugee camps. There are certainly thousands of Eritreans waiting for a relocation. There I was told by EASO a different story, namely that people are sitting there with those people and that they are waiting for relocation. So I think there's still a lot going on. Even the group that is above 75%, the Eritreans, is there. Of course there are no 90 000, but there are thousands of people in Italy. I therefore hope that you will also take this point to the informal meeting and discuss it so that we can show effective solidarity, otherwise the system will not be sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 13593 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, since you took office, you have made a lot of ink, by your words, your way of presenting foreigners, quite often, as potential profitors. As Secretary of State, your role, I have often reminded you, is to bring our fellow citizens together around a common project, to give a positive image of our country internally and externally, to enable it simply to live up to its international commitments. It is necessary to be objective: very often you have proceeded in the opposite direction, cleavage our society. This has resulted in innumerable legislation, repeatedly, which has a certain vocation to instill suspicion around categories of foreigners: once refugees, another time first arriving foreigners, etc. Mr. Chair, I am not going to go back to all the bills. Let me just give the titles with the references. There is Bill DOC 54 197/001, which aims to extend the powers of the refugee general police station. There has been the preliminary draft to extend the legal framework of the Registrars of the Aliens Litigation Board. The aim of the draft law was a purely formal amendment of the French text, in relation to the purely written procedure, to the Aliens Litigation Council. I can cite the bill, which seeks, on the one hand, to optimize accelerated procedures in full litigation, in order to shorten, as much as possible, the period during which persons are kept in detention; and, on the other hand, the annulment procedure adopted following the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Another bill seeks to amend the law in several ways. These amendments concern access to the territory, reunification and citizens of the Union. Another bill seeks to amend the provisions on family reunification with a third-country national, contained in the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens. Another bill concerns the introduction of three amendments, one on the establishment of a right of residence, the other on reconciliation, the third on the creation of a legal basis. There is still a bill to introduce two new sanctions into the law: first, the possibility of withdrawing, partially or temporarily, the daily allowance received by the beneficiaries of the reception and, second, the possibility of permanently excluding a person from the host network. Mr. Francken, it is still a bill that seeks to resolve the delegation of jurisdiction by the Commissioner General for Refugees to his deputy commissioners and to police personnel! I come to my question. I think I will complete the table of the Francken method. In fact, at the beginning of the legislature, you announced that you were going to propose an immigration code. In the opposition, particularly in my group, we had been delighted to have a legistic text synthesizing all this. By your actions, you change the law very regularly. There is a kind of sausage that makes it possible to make communications, highlight certain aspects and focus on certain realities. However, I confess that I am not at all satisfied. I do not think that this is the objective contained in the government agreement. In this agreement, you told us that this immigration code was coming. Every time I ask you, this date is postponed. What are the initiatives already taken or planned for the future? This is in the knowledge that, according to the government agreement, legislation on asylum and immigration will be coordinated in an immigration code, in order to ensure greater legibility and because of the many changes made in recent times. The following principles are essential in this area: transparency, consistency and maximum clarity of procedures, precise definition of the tasks of the various actors. This is the umpteenth time I have asked: could you please clarify the timetable for the development of the code? I hope that this will not be for the end of the legislature, and that we will arrive at a final text as soon as possible. I would like to say to Mr. Chairman that I am tabling a motion of recommendation, which I am sending to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u41	Mr President, honourable Member, the measures taken during this Parliament, which you have listed and criticized, support a well-considered logic. The 2015 asylum crisis, which our country has never experienced, forced the government to take action to deal with this crisis. Several measures were aimed at fluidity with a view to making it possible for applications for residence to be processed effectively, while respecting the rights of the alien wishing to settle in that country. I note that you are following my achievements closely and that, as a result, you can see that over the past two years, I have undertaken a great deal and made changes in migration policy. With regard to your question about the status of the immigration code, I can inform you that the chapter on family reunification is almost written – it is very important because it is the longest chapter – and that at present, different authors are drafting the chapters on subsidiary protection, reception and return. By the end of this year, these chapters will be divided into pre-projects and finalized in the spring or summer of 2017. For spring 2017, I plan to rewrite the chapter "Access and stay". Then, a few small chapters will be written, so that by the end of 2017, the immigration code will have to have been drafted in its entirety, in order to be the subject of discussions within the government. I can inform you that the drafting of a new immigration code is carried out in compliance with the government agreement. We ensure that the new text of each chapter is based on the principles of legibility and transparency for the codification of existing laws. Simplifications are made where necessary, respecting the most recent European legislation and the case law of the highest international or national courts. I know, Mr. Kir, that you are asking me a lot about this. I never said that the immigration code was the only bill I would introduce. It is clear that this is a long-term project. It was already in Mr Di Rupo's government agreement but it did not succeed because it was not possible to do so in two years. It's too big a project. I'm five years old to act and I'm going to finish. Don't worry. I'm happy with your interest, but if you think I'm going to introduce a single bill in 2018 and do nothing before, you don't know me! I think you know me a little. You're talking about the Franken method yourself! It is clear that I will introduce many bills. Next week, Thursday in plenary, three bills will be discussed. I will continue to work; it is necessary. Public opinion is awaiting another migration policy. We can do that, and that is what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u42	Mr Kir, you make the Secretary of State happy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u43	Mr President, indeed, I understood that he was happy and that he made me worried. I will answer, but first, I want to thank him for the information that has been given on the progress of the work. The whole chapter on family reunification is closed. The asylum and return chapters are under way. By the summer of 2017, the access and stay chapters will be closed. You intend to present this to the government by the end of the year. At the end of your answer, you still let go that it would be after five years. You said it would take five years to do it. I want to tell you that what is worrying for me is that you spend a lot of time changing the law every week while you could change it once for everyone. You have come constantly with amendments to the law which, of course, allow, within the framework of the Francken method, to communicate, to highlight certain realities, to point fingers at certain categories of foreigners, to stigmatize situations. It's understandable, but where you're not consistent, it's in relation to your early parliamentary commitments. You convinced us that you would work in coherence and depth to bring readability to all the actors involved: users – foreigners, asylum seekers and others – services at all levels of competence, but also foreign associations, as well as lawyers. Today, if we listen to the returns from the field, they all say it's incomprehensible. The law changes every week, they are unable to know what framework to refer to. You're being blamed. I can understand that the work is tedious – you referred to the former legislature – but I invite you to give priority to the immigration code that would allow you to integrate all your small applications. Maybe we should review the Franken method.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u44	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government - to apply clear, unambiguous rules on residence in accordance with the intentions of the legislator; - to involve specialized associations and university research centres specializing in foreign law in order to benefit from their expertise, both practical and theoretical; - increase the level of guarantee of the fundamental rights of foreigners by including the best interests of the child in all migration proceedings. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, asks the government - to apply clear and unambiguous rules on residence in accordance with the legislator's intentions; - involve the specialised associations and university research centres specialised in foreign law and make use of their practical and theoretical expertise; - to better safeguard the fundamental rights of foreigners by including the child's greater interest in all migration procedures. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, this is a short demand for a number of figures. Just like every year, this year in July and August, there was a sharp fall in the number of decisions taken by the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless each month. However, when comparing the number of decisions per month between 2015 and 2016, it is striking how little has changed. However, in order to continue to ensure a qualitative and efficient asylum procedure, additional resources were made available, including for additional recruitments within that service. The target of 2 500 dossiers per month is apparently far from being met. The additional resources agreed for the CGVS do not lead to the expected increase in the number of decisions, apart from the usual dip in the summer months. Mr Secretary of State, what do you think is the reason? What solution do you propose? Which recruitments have taken place effectively in the meantime? If no solution is proposed, will the funds return to the Treasury?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u46	Mrs Gabriels, thank you for your question. Yesterday I was sitting with the Commissioner-General, just on that point. We've got things straightened out for a while. I think it's important for the output to rise back. We have indeed seen that the number in June was still above 2 000 and has since been structurally below 2 000. I think it is really necessary to see an increase in the coming months. That will probably not work, as he told me, before this month of November, but then the numbers will normally have to go back up. There are some mitigating circumstances I'd like to give you. First of all, I would like to say that the CGVS is not only independent in the definition of Belgian asylum policy, because the Commissioner-General is also acting in complete independence with regard to internal organisation and personnel policy. It is therefore his responsibility to use the funds allocated to him as efficiently as possible. In any case, some caution and contextualisation is needed in the assessment of CGVS output figures. The initial estimate of output was based on the situation in which some of the dossiers could be processed through the so-called accelerated treatment. For example, it was assumed that the Syrian, Eritrean and Iraqi files would lead to a significant increase in the output of the CGVS through accelerated treatment. Due to several factors, such as the adjustment of the protection policy for Iraq.... you know that Baghdad is no longer 15C area.... the impact of this accelerated treatment is rather limited. In addition, in addition to the assigned staff, the CGVS also faces a relatively large outflow of staff. 60 employees left again, but none of them were replaced. I will also discuss this with my colleagues in the government. The specific nature of the task package means that the training of new employees takes about six months. A large number of new staff members started on 1 January and 1 October. It's gonna take some time before they're productive. This means that the new file-handlers will only be fully operational some time after taking up their duties, but also that the more experienced employees will temporarily lose their productivity by coaching their new colleagues. Nevertheless, it remains objective to reduce the backlog of CGVS by the end of 2017. I will monitor this objective in dialogue with the Commissioner-General. Is output below 2 000 files in recent months? Yes, that's the case. Is this about 2,500 files? No, that's not right. Will the number increase again? Yeah, it'll rise again. However, there are also a number of contextualisations that I have given you. We are absolutely following up on this. I can also stress your heart and I had a good two-hour conversation with the Commissioner-General yesterday, and he is well aware of the situation. He's doing everything in his power to increase the output. However, it is also important that the quality of each individual asylum application should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u47	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You will continue to follow up on the file. We'll do that with you. Here's what I wanted to know. Were those 60 employees you spoke of and left unplanned? Have a lot of people left unplanned or were they natural redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u48	Mrs. Gabriels, most of them leave unscheduled. You should know that staff members at the CGVS are often young people who look at the matter at international level. There are many who leave and do other jobs or sit or sit in Greece. There are many movers, more actually than we expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, the failed coup in Turkey has led to a witch hunt for people considered by Erdogan's regime to be state-threatening. This is how people are locked up when there is a suspicion that they would be critical of the regime. It is estimated that some twenty thousand people, and probably much more in the meantime, were detained because they have or would have links with the Gülen movement. They are considered dangerous, even if there are no concrete indications that they had anything to do with the coup. People who want to flee from Turkey often cannot leave the country because they are signed and their passports have been revoked or declared invalid. If they manage to escape from the country, the family members who are left behind are often blackmailed. I know a number of editors, professors and businessmen in that situation. Their family members are sometimes even locked up, as long as the wanted person does not report to the government. These are medieval practices we cannot tolerate. We need to ask ourselves a lot of questions about that. I have a number of questions about how our country and other countries actually deal with such situations. It is not the first time that our country has dealt with a regime or a country that withdraws passports and stops people from leaving. How has it been dealt with in other countries in the past? How does the Belgian government deal with this in Turkey? Can these people, possibly with the help of the Belgian government, apply for our local embassies, asylum or a humanitarian visa? Can they still leave, even if Turkey withdraws their travel documents or passports? Do these recent events have an impact on migration and asylum policy and the way in which the Comissariat-General works for the refugees and the Stateless? Are there options other than flights, leaving everything behind and applying for asylum in Brussels or in another country? According to the Foreign Minister, 56 Turks applied for asylum in September, six of them with diplomatic passports. How many Turks have applied for asylum in our country so far since the failed coup? I must also say that I know that some people have fled from Turkey, but they do not want or dare to apply for asylum because they fear consequences for their families. If people in Turkey know that they have applied for asylum here, they fear the worst for their families. Sometimes they have fled Turkey because they are being persecuted, but they do not dare to apply for asylum in Belgium because they fear reprisals for their families. They often sit here with, for example, a work permit. So this is definitely a problem. How can we protect these people? How can we create pressure from Europe so that we can help those people who need protection? I assume that this problem has already arisen with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u50	Mrs Lanjri, I think this is a very good question. Turkey is problematic. The number of asylum applications from Turkey has increased tenfold since the coup. In January 2016, there were 38, in February 22, in March 24, in April 28, in May 17 and in June 17. But then it starts: in July 33, in August 75, in September 72 and in October 175 asylum applications. Also in November there are many asylum applications from Turkey. That effect is therefore very remarkable and worrying. As for all asylum applications, irrespective of their country of origin, the CGVS and the RVV shall assess asylum applications taking into account the current situation as regards the assessment of the asylum application and the individual situation of each applicant. Both take account of the current situation in the assessment. This was also the case before the coup, when there was already a well-founded fear of persecution or a real risk of serious harm, subsidiary protection, and hence refugee status, for certain profiles. It is up to the CGMS and the RVV to determine the asylum policy in this area in full independence, but every asylum application is thoroughly examined. Before that, for example, there were Kurds who applied for asylum in Belgium. You must know people in that case. The authorities in which a foreigner can apply for asylum are referred to in Article 71.2 of the Royal Decree of 8 October 1981. The diplomatic and consular posts are not included in that list. We will talk about this later. It is therefore not possible to apply for asylum in Ankara or Istanbul.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u52	You know that my policy has quadrupled the number of humanitarian visas. I have the figures from the day of attempted coup until the end of October. The number of asylum applications was therefore 17 in May and 17 in June. Then came the coup. In October, there were 175 asylum applications. Also in November, for the first 10 days, there are already more than 50. That figure keeps going up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u53	How do we deal with people whose passports were withheld in the country of origin? These people can't run unless they're illegal. They're not getting out of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u54	Mrs Lanjri, that is not only the case in Turkey. In many countries, regimes hold passports, so that their nationals cannot leave. That happens in dozens of countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u55	How do we deal with that? Can these people be helped somehow?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u56	I think that's a strange question. From the Foreign Office, of course, we are trying diplomatically to change these governments' ideas. If your question is to keep embassies and consulates open, I'd be delighted to discuss the penalty sentence again. I don't understand why we're opening our embassies and consulates to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u57	I didn't say that. I asked the question how we can help people who really need protection, whose passport is being withheld but who want to flee the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u58	Even if they were to issue a humanitarian visa, they would not be able to leave and they would not get away at the airport: the Turkish authorities would stop them there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u59	That's the problem I'm raising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u60	You mention a humanitarian visa as an opportunity, but even with that they can't get away. They should go to another country, but there they are stopped at the border. This is mainly a matter of foreign affairs, of diplomacy. There was a whole debate in plenary last week. In the case of the Foreign Office, the question is raised every week: what do we do with Turkey? How can we get the Erdogan government and the president to change their ideas so he can stop what he's doing? That's a matter for Minister Reynders, not this committee. If you ask me how we can help these people, the answer is, above all, by trying to change things diplomatically. Humanitarian visas won't get out of the country. They don't have any documents. Even if I give a visa, the Turks will prevent them from taking a flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u61	That is the essence of my question. If you tell me to ask Minister Reynders that question, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u62	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question was tabled on 10 October. I know things have happened in the meantime. I'll take that into account. The Calais refugee camp has since been evacuated. There were a lot of unaccompanied minors there and there was a fear, among others at UNICEF, that many children could come into the hands of smugglers. For unaccompanied minors, reception is provided for separate containers. Some of the young people would be transferred to Great Britain. What are the effects of this evacuation on our land? Are we in contact with France about, for example, the arrival of unaccompanied minors? Have we noticed that some of the unaccompanied minors would have come to our country? Have we been able to deal with those involved? Are there any contacts with your French colleagues about the consequences of the evacuation of the camp?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u63	Mrs Lanjri, this is particularly a matter for Mr Jambon. He has coordinated matters for the government with regard to the evacuation in Calais and the contacts with my fellow Members. The evacuation of the camp started on Monday 24 October 2016. The situation has always been under control. There has been no massive influx of transit migrants at the border through the evacuation. That was not the case. The problem of transit migration and, in particular, the situation in Calais and the camps located on the border is constantly monitored and evaluated, both by my services and, above all, by the services of the partners, such as the Interior Office, the Asylum and Migration Cabinet, the Governor of West Flanders, the local and federal police and the Foreign Affairs Office. At regular intervals there is consultation and there is always someone from my cabinet present. In addition, consultations are held regularly with the French competent services. The French authorities have cleared the camp with a significant number of police officers. In addition, two liaison officers were identified within the Belgian police services who are in daily contact with the French services. The Home Secretary deployed 120 extra police officers to guard the border region. We did not want a refugee camp in Belgium like in Calais. We have succeeded so far. We are going to work very hard for this to continue. You know the governor of West Flanders, and you know his commitment, his drive and his never-ending energy in that regard. He will monitor this in every possible way and can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u64	The liaison officer of the Foreign Affairs Office, who was specifically and successfully appointed as liaison officer for the coastal region at the beginning of this year, closely follows the situation. Due to this good framework and the cooperation between all Belgian partners involved, we managed to complete everything in a good way, without any influx of additional transit migrants in Belgium. I therefore believe that we have the situation under control so far. However, we must continue to monitor the situation every day. Finally, I would like to say a few words about unaccompanied minors. I did an extra pledge for Italy and Greece for unaccompanied minors, but not in our country. A solution has been found between France and England. Of course, I can't do everything either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u65	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, throughout the month of August, there has been an increasing number of testimonies and incidents of intense tension in some closed centres, including the 127bis return centre in Steenokkerzeel, the Merksplas illegal centre and the Caricole transit centre. Several 127bis prisoners, following the lock-up of one of their own, signed a petition and demanded that they meet with the director of the centre in order to protest against their confinement, their living conditions and demand the release of their comrade. In the closed centre of Merksplas, many of them have been locked up for 5, 7, 8, up to 11 months, and as for the Caricole transit centre, arbitrary "cachots" would be denounced. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Have you been aware of these different events? How do you react to this information? Can you indicate the annual number of incidents that occurred in the last three years? Can you ventilate them according to the closed centres? Can you comment on these figures? On what legal basis do some of these detainees remain locked up for as long as they are aware that Article 7 of the Act of 15 December 1980, which provides for an order to leave the territory with a deportation order and deprivation of liberty, states: "Unless other sufficient but less coercive measures can be effectively applied, the alien may be maintained for this purpose, for the time strictly necessary for the execution of the measure, in particular when there is a risk of escape or when the alien avoids or prevents the preparation of the return or the removal procedure and without the duration of the stay being longer than two months"? What measures have been taken or will be taken to address these problems of violence in the centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u66	Mr President, Mr Kir, at Centre 127bis, management received a letter from several residents in August. It concerned the services provided by the medical centre. Management discussed the matter with two representatives and the case was closed. No petitions were received by management regarding the isolation of a resident. With regard to the incidents in this centre, a case of self-injury was recorded on 4 August last. After a telephone conversation with his mother, a Tunisian resident slit his arms and stomach when he learned that if he returned to Germany, he would be locked up in a prison. Management had an interview with him and listened to his version of the facts. The nurse gave him first aid and then returned to his room. An escape from a centre resident was recorded. At the end of September, this resident jumped the fence and the other residents did not react, with the exception of some curious questions. The person concerned was intercepted by the police. In the Caricole transit centre, the second centre in Steenokkerzeel, there were no special tensions or cases of aggression in August. At the end of August, two residents were isolated for 24 hours, in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of the closed centres after they were caught trying to escape. They broke the security ice to the point that the chamber could not be used for a while. At the Merksplas illegal centre, no more serious tensions or assaults have been observed since August. As for the prolonged detentions in Merksplas, it should be pointed out that they are rather limited. In 2016, 5 people were locked up for more than 5 months, 1 person was locked up for more than 6 months, 3 people were locked up for more than 7 months and 2 people were locked up for more than 8 months. The reasons for prolonged detention are diverse, but they often involve a lengthy identification procedure, a refusal to leave or several successive refusals to leave, with or without a suspensive appeal procedure. Secondly, on the basis of the incident report which is dealt with at the central level and taking into account the facts contained in the 48- and 72-hour isolation reports for serious acts committed in the centre, the figures for all closed centres are as follows: in 2014, 20; in 2015, 47; in 2016 until the end of September: only 15. Impact incidents reported in incident reports often involved the injury of residents to staff, residents' protests, inter-resident fighting with the need to use coercion by agents, and aggressive individual behaviour. I believe that my colleague has not read the full text of the article he cites in his question. Article 7 continues: "The Minister or his delegate may, however, extend the detention for a period of two months when the necessary steps for the removal of the alien have been taken within seven working days of the detention of the alien, they are pursued with due diligence and there is always a possibility of effectively removing the alien within a reasonable period of time. After an extension, the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made only by the Minister." I'm the one signing. "After five months of detention, the alien must be released. In the event that the protection of public order or national security so requires, the detention of the alien may be extended each time by one month after the expiry of the period referred to in the preceding paragraph, but the total duration of the detention may therefore exceed eight months." Detention may therefore last for more than two months, provided that the Agency has taken steps to organize the removal of the detained person, including steps to determine the identity and nationality of the detained person, obtaining a travel document and a laissez-passer. In addition, a new detention order may be notified to a detained person if he refuses to board an aircraft for removal and the countdown is then reset to zero. If the person concerned applies for asylum in a closed centre, another decision based on Article 74.6 of the 1980 Act will be notified to him. The fact that such persons may be re-enacted has been approved by consistent case law. The person concerned may appeal to the Chamber of Counsel of the Court of First Instance against such detention on a monthly basis. In addition, when a nut under the same title of detention exceeds four months, the Minister is obliged to seek the advice of the Chamber of Council in order to check whether prolonged detention is still lawful. I would also like to remind you that the long detentions in a closed centre are largely the result of the behaviour of the persons concerned who bring several appeals and procedures during their detention in order to avoid return or who refuse to cooperate in giving evidence of their identity or nationality. Each closed centre has an aggression manager who constantly monitors the phenomenon of aggression with the assistance of a working and support group which formulates concrete proposals in the context of a systematic analysis of a major incident in order to control the risk of aggression in the centre concerned. As noted above, this is a permanent point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u67	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on June 3, you announced the closure of 10,000 reception places for asylum seekers. The arguments appeared to be legitimate, since you have invoked a decreasing number of applicants since the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, an under-utilisation of the reception infrastructure and significant management costs. However, where the building hurts, it is with the closure of 500 structural squares of individual housing, notably managed by the Coordination and Initiatives for Refugees and Foreigners. Your decision, taken without any consultation with the main stakeholders, as François De Smet, director of the Federal Migration Centre (MYRIA), pointed out last June, "is rather strange, because places existed for seventeen years and functioned well. This is a shame, because this type of individual and personalized reception contributes to better integration and faster empowerment. In addition, individual reception generally costs less than collective reception." Indeed, while being supervised, asylum seekers are empowered and encouraged to interact with the local community. Whatever happens, our country will continue to see the flow of claimants fleeing war or persecution, even though weather conditions may cause some cyclical slowdown. Based on these findings, I would like to ask you the following questions, Secretary of State. First of all, what are the reasons that guided you in choosing the closure of these structural squares? What were the criteria? Have you taken your decision in consultation with the municipalities concerned? Did these structural places take place on the day of the decision-making of the refugee candidates? If so, what fate was reserved for them? How many jobs have been lost? Do you have any information in view of the international situation to say that these places will no longer be useful in the near future? Mr. Chairman, I again table a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u69	Mr Kir, the current reduction in reception capacity concerns all operators in the network. In addition, the number of collective reception places to be reduced is higher than that of individual reception places. Fedasil's objective, in reducing the reception capacity decided by the government, is to have sufficient reception capacity in line with the new reception model according to which, and in accordance with the government agreement, preference must be given to the organization of a collective reception. Individual reception is given priority to certain vulnerable groups, as well as to asylum-seekers with high chances of being recognised. With regard to the closure of collective reception facilities, the mayors of the municipalities concerned, in addition to being personally informed by telephone, received a letter from Fedasil on this subject. At the same time, the letter was sent to the governors of these communes. Yes, they were operational reception facilities and therefore accommodate asylum seekers or place them at the disposal of Fedasil. As with any closure, a phased reduction schedule is established for each host structure concerned. This planning involves, as a first step, stopping the designation of first arrivals to the reception structure and, in a second step, the natural departure of the welcomed residents, or the organization of their transfer to another adapted reception structure. Since the management of the staff of the individual partner host structures is the responsibility of the partner operators, Fedasil does not have figures on the impact of the capacity reduction on the staff of this host structure. The number of asylum seekers declined sharply at the beginning of this year and has been stable for several months. However, since a sudden increase in asylum seekers can never be totally excluded, it has been decided to create 7,000 buffer places in the reception network, in order to be able to cope, in the future, with any significant increase in arrivals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u70	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government - to set up a one-stop-shop for reception and structural information; - to recognise the asylum-seeker from the pre-registration stage in order to provide him with minimum accommodation, e.g. through ‘tampoons' places in the Fedasil structural reception centres; - to increase the flexibility of the number of staff at the Foreign Office, e.g. by training voluntary reserve officers who can come in support and by providing for weekend opening days in case of need similar to other European countries; - to push for consolidation and simplification of the registration procedure; - to improve the information of applicants on specialized law firms and enable them to attend the "Dublin" interviews; - to provide a reception network for asylum seekers who are mainly in family care to leave collective reception facilities quickly and to integrate an individual reception facility; - to improve the support and support for the integration of applicants, e.g. to expand and systematize access to language courses and to revise their structure to make them immediately useful in asylum proceedings and in future career paths." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, asks the government - establish a single structural reception and information point; - recognise asylum seekers from pre-registration in order to provide them with minimum housing, for example by means of buffering places in the Fedasil structural reception centres; - to make staff in the Foreign Affairs Office flexible, for example by training voluntary'reserve officers', who can assist, and by opening up services on Sundays, if necessary, as is the case in other European countries; - to encourage the pooling and simplification of the registration procedure; - better inform asylum seekers about specialised law firms and allow lawyers to attend so-called Dublin maintenance; - to provide a network for the rapid exit of collective reception structures and for the integration of asylum seekers into an individual reception structure; - to improve guidance and support for the integration of asylum seekers, for example by broadening and systematising access to language lessons and by reviewing the structure of these lessons so that they become directly useful in the asylum procedure and the future professional career." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, the press on 7 September echoed a decision of the European Court of Human Rights condemning Belgium to review and humanise its policy of internment of prisoners with psychiatric disorders. I take the opportunity of this condemnation to remind you that, among migrants and asylum seekers in particular, cases of mental, psychological suffering are not rare. In this connection, my colleague Willy Demeyer drew your attention a year ago to the abolition of the "Psycell" put in place, some ten years ago, by the CGRA to train and advise protection officers in charge of hearing asylum seekers in order to comply with our international obligations, which arise, in particular, from Directive 2013/32/EU on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. You objected that "in order to comply with the obligation to identify and take measures to take account of asylum seekers with special needs, it was first of all crucial to develop a system under which the asylum-seeker concerned was given the opportunity to express his needs. In this regard, the involvement of a psychologist is not absolutely necessary. The identification of special needs and the examination of possible medical and/or mental problems shall take place on the basis of evidence or medical certificates submitted by the asylum-seekers concerned. Finally, however, the possibility of appointing experts for medical examinations is being examined in the context of the transposition of the Procedures Directive." So, Mr. Secretary of State, a year after this answer, where are we? What about training for front-line officers? How many people in different reception and/or return centres suffer from psychiatric problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u72	Mr Kir, a preliminary draft law to transpose the Procedures Directive will soon be submitted to the government. As soon as it is ready, it will be submitted to the House, where we can discuss it. A framework for the establishment of special care and for the examination of persons with medical problems is provided for in this bill. Training of front-line officers on the new regulations will be organised prior to the coming into force of the Act. With regard to Fedasil and the reception of asylum seekers, measures have been taken to enable identification and support. For the past two years, a medical team has been set up within Fedasil's dispatching department. In addition to a medical screening, there is an initial identification of the particularities and specific needs of new asylum seekers. Depending on the needs identified, an appropriate reception space is assigned. The mental health awareness of front-line reception staff is implemented in both directions: training or study days take place on specific topics related to mental health. For example, in the past two months, staff accompanying MENA have received training on the prevention of suicidal risk among young people. Other training courses are held on female genital mutilation, sexual violence or an online training module on LGBTI, etc. With regard to facilitated contacts with mental health professionals, Fedasil is currently supporting several projects implemented by professionals in the sector. These projects often include a helpdesk component for employees who wish to benefit from their expertise. "Intervisions" with the teams are also proposed. At present, there are no comprehensive statistics on all persons accommodated in the Fedasil reception network who are subject to psychological or psychiatric follow-up. Nevertheless, this issue is receiving our full attention, as evidenced by the number of mental health projects. Fedasil aims to develop the following partnerships: access to psychiatric care, collaboration with Saint-Martin and Saint-Alexius hospitals, outpatient psychological support for children and adolescents, collaboration with Solentra, Ulysse and Praxis associations, residential psychological support and collaboration with Red Cross reception centres. In addition to these projects, the reception centres also work with internal or external psychologists who provide psychological support on the front line. Despite the fact that there is not yet an INAMI nomenclature, the costs of psychological counselling of residents in Fedasil's reception centres and its partners are borne by Fedasil in a limited way, depending on the frequency of consultations and the price of the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 14590 was postponed. Before going any further, Mr Secretary of State, I should like to say that I have to leave myself. How much time do you have for the other questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u74	I have to leave at 12:50, Mr President. Then we will be able to finish all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u75	Then I'll ask Mrs. De Coninck to replace me later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u76	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is a pity that this question can only now be addressed. Of course, there's been the recess. I tabled this question in response to a statement by you, Mr Secretary of State, in July on the withdrawal of living wages for Europeans. In application of Article 40 of the Aliens Act, an EU citizen who wishes to stay in our country for more than three months must be able to demonstrate that he is not a burden on our social assistance. If a person is paid a living wage for three consecutive months while he or she has been in our country for less than three years, he or she may be regarded as a tax on social assistance and lose his or her residence permit. That's been happening for a number of years. I asked Mrs De Block for this earlier. In the past, people were already sent back. For example, in 2014 2 042 people were returned and in 2015 1 700. The first half of this year, 720 people were returned because they applied for a living wage, while they did not stay long enough in our country and thus constituted a burden on our social security. These cases are controlled by a cross-reference of data. We're working very well together. The OCMW shall forward their data to the FPS Social Integration, which shall verify that there is an excessive load. It is considered on a case-by-case basis. If necessary, file shall be forwarded to DVZ which may decide on the expulsion. In the media, you stated that you want Europeans no longer to be entitled to a living wage, as they, by definition, do not meet the conditions of residence. You said that some EU citizens would register with the social fund for self-employed workers, after which they would receive a certificate and sometimes receive a living wage for one to two years. I have a number of questions to ask. How can people receive a living wage for one or two years if the data exchange between the Social Integration PPS and your services is already started after three months? Either the system isn't working, which would surprise me, or you've got the wrong information or you've misrepresented it. Is cooperation between the PPS Social Integration and DVZ going well or not? All that's not going well, what are the reasons for that? In that case, what adjustments are needed? In principle, it is not possible for a person to receive a living wage unjustly for two years. (...): In theory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u77	In theory, that's what I'm saying. However, you cited in the media the example of people who sometimes receive one or two years of unjust benefits. With the measures we had taken, the intention was and is to intervene as soon as possible, after three months. I'm gonna stand behind that. We have to do that. Was that a bad example? What exactly is behind that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u78	I can assure you that the cooperation between my administration and the PPS Social Integration is going smoothly. Both administrations meet twice a year to find solutions to the abuse. Through European law and the right to hear my administration must hear the stranger before taking a decision to withdraw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u79	If the right of residence has been effectively withdrawn, the person concerned may submit a new application on the basis of, for example, a new contract of employment. This gives him the right to social assistance for workers in some cases immediately. Other persons submit a profession which allows in certain cases to receive social assistance rather than a living wage. The speed of withdrawal therefore has nothing to do with the problem of managing deadlines at the level of my administration, but with the legislation itself. This is reinforced by the right to hear, even in the event of fraud, which means that a person can receive a living wage or social assistance for a period of much longer than three months. In certain cases, a withdrawal cannot be foreseen, i.e. if the Union citizen has worked for more than one year, fulfils the conditions required to obtain permanent residence or have a Belgian child. Recently, my administration has also looked at better use of the flow, in particular to monitor EU citizens who, despite a withdrawal of residence, still receive social assistance or a living wage. The introduction of this flow has led to a reduction in the number of Europeans applying for social assistance. However, there is still much work to be done. I also planned a meeting with Minister Borsus on 1 December. It is possible, therefore, and it is true that the three-month deadline is exceeded. Among other things, the appeal and the right to hear ensure that, even in the event of fraud, the three-month period is well exceeded. Sometimes we can never even withdraw a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u81	On the substance of the matter, on the issue of non-payment of a living wage to an EU citizen, and on the interpretation of the legislation on the withdrawal of the living wage, the following. I think there's something illogical in it. In your opinion, the legislation is misinterpreted on certain points and cannot be interpreted properly, but I believe that, as well as the lawyers in my cabinet, it can and can be done perfectly. However, I am not only competent in this matter; it is mainly a competence of Minister Borsus. I made a statement on that point a while ago during a working visit. According to my lawyers, it's perfect. One of the conditions for registering as a European is that they provide for their own maintenance. How can we get a living wage? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u82	You yourself cited the example. It's not completely forbidden. For example, you will not be able to tell people who have worked here for two years and who have a temporary problem and, for example, draw a living wage for three months. That makes sense. That must also be proportionate. You have noted that people who register with a social insurance fund for self-employed persons receive a certificate and therefore sometimes for one or two years receive a living wage unjustly. I still don't understand that. Can you explain that to me? That's what you said in the article in Latest News.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u83	Can I explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u84	I'll ask the Secretary of State. That's what I don't understand, because there is still a cross-section of data. You say that in some cases people appeal and there is also the right to hear. That's a possibility. I was talking about the passage in the article in which you say that they register with the social fund for self-employed persons. The self-employed are given a certificate and can sometimes earn an unfair living wage for one to two years. Normally, if you register with the cashier for self-employed persons, you have to pay contributions. In this way it is shown that one is self-employed. Then, of course, there is no right to a living wage. It's illegal, too. Another system is that, as soon as one would ask for a living wage as a self-employed person or employee, it is noted after three months and the data are transmitted to the Social Integration Office, where one examines whether this is an exceptional situation that is justified or whether this is not an exceptional situation and is passed on to DVZ. That's basically how it works. I do not understand why self-employed people can earn two years' living wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u85	I will check with my administration and provide you with the answer in writing. I didn't just make this up, it's from my administration, and it must be true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u86	I specifically included it in the question so that you would give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u87	I will give you that answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u88	It is often self-employed who have gone bankrupt. In some cases, they are entitled to a living wage. That could also be from another European country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u89	It's about the system of paying contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u90	The local OCMW board can always suspend the living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u91	Minister, during the summer of 2015, Europe experienced a particularly intense wave of migration. As a result, the Member States of the European Union have decided to set up hotspots at the borders of Europe. The debate has already been conducted here and we know how it worked or not. I'm not going to go back to the whole case. The operational nature of these hotspots has not been set up at one time and has encountered some problems. Last March, only eight of the planned eleven hotspots were operational. Then, last May, security problems were pointed out in these hotspots, leading in particular to the return of some collaborators. As a result of these problems, EASO, the European Asylum Support Office, has launched a weekly monitoring of the situation of hotspots, dealing with many issues including security. What about the security situation in hotspots? What was the situation during the summer? Can you take stock of the organization of the hotspots? Are they all functional? What are the current problems, if any? How many people have been relocated from the hotspots? Can you disaggregate these figures by Member State? If this is not possible, it may be the subject of a written question. I wanted to take stock of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u92	Dear colleague, indeed, we have experienced a number of security incidents. The hotspot in Moria was the subject of a serious fire in September. In general, most hotspots in Greece have experienced evacuation, suspension of operations, with demonstrations, protests by migrants. Although EASO is present in hotspots, security issues are a prerogative of the host State, namely Greece. EASO is committed to supporting the Greek authorities in implementing security-related measures. In fact, EASO has organised analysis gaps and has put in place a number of measures: fire extinguishers, more efficient evacuation plan, increased emergency exits, etc. However, the main gap seems to be the lack of Greek police personnel in the hotspots. On several occasions, I have highlighted the issue of security in hotspots, both at European level and directly with my Greek colleague, Mr Mouzalas. The safety of our field experts goes first and foremost. I wrote a letter to Mr. Mouzalas and I talked to him. I made an intervention in the JHA. I wrote a letter again yesterday; I think you have a copy. I also wrote a letter to EASO and EASO wrote a letter to Mr Mouzalas. CGRA wrote a letter. I really don't understand why safety isn't optimized. I don't agree at all. I have an informal ministerial meeting tomorrow night only and will tell Mr. Mouzalas again. It must optimize the situation directly and immediately, as a matter of urgency. There are five functional hotspots in Greece and four in Italy. Two hotspots have not been set up in Italy because Italy has national registration centres and there are also plans to set up mobile hotspots for greater efficiency. It can be said that the hotspots are generally functional, since Italy and Greece have a 100% registration rate. Nevertheless, Greece must continue to expand its reception capacity and speed up procedures. To this end, the Greek Asylum Service (GAS) must improve the processing time for asylum applications, in order to reduce the waiting time for asylum seekers in hotspots. GAS is supported by EASO and by experts from Member States in this field. In accordance with the Rules of the House, I cannot provide you with the statistics in an oral question. Please ask me a written question. In conclusion, I repeat that I wrote a letter. We do not currently have any collaborators in Greece. We have collaborators in Italy. Belgium was the Member State with the largest number of employees at the Greek hotspot. From the beginning, men and women from Fedasil, the Foreign Office and CGRA have assisted Greek protection officers and Greek asylum officers. On the other hand, Belgium was the largest European contributor to Greece. We've been helping the Greeks really intensively since the beginning. It's also because I have a good relationship with Mr. Mouzalas. We had a small incident, but the case is closed, and we have a good working relationship. But now I can't. It's too dangerous. More police officers must be present in the centre. I understand that. The migrants have been blocked there, ze zitten daar vast, for many months. They're a lot of young men. The atmosphere is tense. But our protective officer was assaulted. I want to resume our commitments for Greece immediately, but only if there is an optimisation of security. I have to protect my collaborators. If there was an incident, you'd be the first to ask me questions. That's your role as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your full answer. I have no doubt that you've been 100% involved in this case. I fully agree with you that the safety of our employees is a priority. I believe that Greece must make every effort to ensure that security is optimal. I couldn't understand the opposite. I'll be right with you. Zero risk does not exist, but they must make every effort to ensure that safety is optimal. I am pleased that Belgium has made an enormous contribution, but if safety is not optimal, we must recover our employees. That's enough! You wrote letters, you took steps, you asked for a collaboration and if there is no return, it's over! I am also glad to see that hotspots are working well. In Italy, these are mobile hotspots. In the field, it is necessary to adapt to the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u94	Mr Secretary of State, the CGVS has been sending the refugee attestation by post to the last known address of the person concerned since January last year. If the recognised refugee is in possession of a passport, he or she is asked in an accompanying letter to return it to the CGVS as soon as possible. However, refugees are not obliged to abdicate their passport. One cannot just erase his past and a passport often has emotional value. In practice, however, according to our information, this means that there is no control over the surrender of passports. It cannot therefore be ruled out that the situation is being abused and that, for example, recognised refugees sell their passports. This also means that a person who flees his country and is recognised as a refugee in Belgium can still travel with the passport of the country from which he fled, while recognised refugees can perfectly obtain a Belgian travel pass at the provincial delegation of the FPS Interior. What is your position on the matter? Is there no effective control over the surrender of passports by recognised refugees? As long as the passport is not abused, of course there is no problem, but what exactly is being done to prevent possible abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u95	Mrs Gabriels, according to current legislation, a recognised refugee cannot be required to surrender his or her international passport. One can ask, but one cannot force it. Where that passport is used to travel to the country of origin, it shall be systematically examined whether there is reason to withdraw or withdraw refugee status. In order to tackle abuse in this sense, as Secretary of State, I asked the Foreign Affairs Office to work out a system with other services or agencies, in particular the aviation police, to detect any abuses more efficiently. I have set up a working group to do this. Meanwhile, a comprehensive instruction was prepared to coordinate this approach and the necessary meetings were organised to exchange information in a more efficient way. I'll get you the instruction, too. In the meantime, in three cases, the CGVS effectively withdrew the statutes of so-called holidaymakers. There is also a lot to do in the Netherlands and France. This is causing a great deal of annoyance: we protect refugees and then they go back, on vacation. Let us say that this is difficult to explain to the public. It's not always obvious to get that story explained in a good way. It is important that we fight fraud hard. However, we must maintain the balance. For the holidaymakers I personally have no understanding at all. They can ask CGVS to return to the country of origin, for example for a parent's funeral, but nobody does. Sometimes people just go back on vacation. That practice has been around for years. Everyone knew, but almost nothing was done about it. We are protecting many refugees, and this costs a great deal of money, but I think we should be able to say that it is not possible to abuse the situation. There are still dozens of files with Mr Van den Bulck of the CGVS to examine whether the statute should be withdrawn. During the great holiday a lot of files have come to light. If, after any appeal to the Council for Aliens' Disputes, it appears that the Staff Regulations have been legally repealed, DVZ shall terminate the stay and, if possible, guarantee the return of the persons concerned. As the abuses are cross-border, I have decided to develop cooperation with neighbouring countries. I shall see Mr Dijkhoff again tomorrow, and I will also discuss this with Germany and France.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u96	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u97	Mr Secretary of State, I was just wondering whether the question had not become obsolete and whether there had been no settlement in the meantime. However, it may be about another aspect, but I still doubt it. A few months ago, there was a lack of clarity about the signing of decisions on alien files. Until last year this has often been done by competent officials, but after a series of disputes before the Council of Foreign Ministers, it is appropriate that the mayor or a competent vessel sign these decisions and not an administrative official. I believe that this is already the practice in many municipalities, but that it is very different from municipality to municipality. According to our information, you would be aware of the problem and consider a legislative initiative to remove this ambiguity. The question is whether there is a legislative initiative yet to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u98	Mrs Gabriels, as mayors to each other, I think this is a very important matter. I didn't leave that. I was aware of this, but this has actually already been resolved. You approved that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u99	That's why I doubted whether the question was out of date. But is it about these decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u100	Yes. This problem was resolved in the law on various provisions published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 June 2016, which entered into force on 7 July 2016. It is no longer required that the mayor or one of his ships sign the decision. In practice, the College of Mayors and Ships will delegate this power to an official. The new Article 81/1 of the Law of 15 December 1980 provides for a delegation from the mayor to a member of the municipal staff, so I assume often someone from the civil status. It's true with us, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 14746 converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u102	I think we visited this shelter together once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u103	Indeed, Madam President, in sunny times. Mr Secretary of State, by the end of this month, the temporary shelter in Koksijde will normally close. During the last autumn vacation it was planned that the unaccompanied minors and most families with children would already leave, so that a new school could start after the autumn vacation. On the occasion of the close, the team of Fedasil-Koksijde organised a farewell party, on 28 October. We have seen beautiful images of this in the news. Although this closure was announced some time ago, there are still a lot of questions and there is a bit of tension. Not only with the residents but also with the staff. Subdivided into various services, ranging from animation, community service, reception, social service, medical service, about logistics service, management and technical service, there are 45 staff in Koksijde. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, as far as residents are concerned. Can you confirm that the timing was and will be met? Did all the minors and families with children leave in the autumn? Will the end of November stay to let everyone leave? In what way is there a search for a new destination for the residents? Is there any consideration given to possible friendships that have arisen between residents in recent times? Can we do what is necessary? Are there any ways not to divorce friends? When will the new destination be made known, first to the centre itself and secondly to the residents? Is that in the very short term or is there a certain intermediate period? Secondly, as regards staff. What types of contract do the 45 staff work under? How many already applied internally for a new job at Fedasil and are they sure they can continue to work at Fedasil? How many have already announced that they have found a new job outside of Fedasil? How much is there not yet a solution in sight? What support will possibly be provided to the staff who lose their jobs? Thirdly, as far as the area of the air base is concerned. What is the deadline for leaving the buildings and the grounds? Is there a certain rent or occupation there? Can you shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u104	For each resident in Koksijde the most adapted place is requested, depending on the number of places available. In the case of the transfer of the minor asylum seeker, the most appropriate place of refuge will always be allocated in function of the individual file of the minor, including the friendships created. An allocation is always transferred to the centre itself, which then communicates it to the resident. A resident normally has three days to comply with the decision. Unaccompanied minors did stay in Koksijde, but they were in autonomous places. It was about 17-year-olds with a very high level of autonomy. A small group moved to Sint-Truiden because they wanted to stay together. The staff of the Koksijde reception centre are employed under a fixed-term contract, with the exception of a staff member who was temporarily seconded from the Poelkapelle reception centre. Since August 2016, people have been participating in internal selections. Of the 48 employees, employed in Koksijde on 1 August 2016, eight are now employed in Poelkapelle and one in the reception centre of Dendermonde. Six people either voluntarily resigned or announced their resignation. Nine contracts were extended until the end of February 2017, in order to bring the buildings back to their original state. At present, 34 people did not find a new position within Fedasil. However, most of them regularly participate in internal selections. In view of the conclusion of several reception centres and the high number of temporary contracts currently in place, support is limited to the internal opening up of all vacant relations to all staff of the Agency. Fedasil will normally return the buildings to Defense in early February 2017. A final decision on the future use of the site is for the Minister of Defence. So everything is going according to plan. I would like to thank you and also the mayor of Koksijde, the people of the police area and all the asylum workers. As you know, we had a difficult start. However, I have learned a lot from it. I also understand that cooperation went very well at the end. In the beginning there was some resentment on both sides. It became clear that there had to be a police protocol between the local police and every asylum centre, you remember. In the beginning, I was somewhat reluctant to do so. We did, in the end, in all the centers. I'm so happy about that. So I've also learned from the mayors and the police, and I'm not too proud to admit it. I think that the current situation, with the protocols on paper, is a real added value. The employees of Fedasil and other partners also admit that this is a good way to work. It provides more stability and security for residents in all those municipalities where centres are opened. In the beginning things sometimes went with a bit of resentment, but in the end, after all these months, I am very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u105	Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and, above all, for his positive words at the end, which I will take with me to the Westhoek. Mr Secretary of State, you put it correctly: it was a difficult start. I don't know if you've seen the footage of it, but the farewell party at the end of October was actually indicative of the way people grew there. In the end, many volunteers from the region were engaged. From that, I think we can conclude that it has been a positive story. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u106	If it is said enough to the Secretary of State, he sometimes listens, and learns from it. You can see, Mr Secretary of State, that it can also be done in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u107	Madam President, Secretary of State, in the summer of 2015 we had to deal with a massive influx of refugee candidates from Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. This crisis has called on many actors in our country, starting with yourself, to organize a prompt and worthy reception, which has been done, contrary to what some think or say. In the face of this crisis, CPAS was asked to provide housing for persons who would be granted refugee status. It must be noted, however, that today only 65 per cent of these dwellings are actually occupied. This costs "cher" to CPAS who, since these dwellings are unoccupied, do not receive all the subsidies from Fedasil. The reason is that, for several months, the number of asylum applications in Belgium has been declining, resulting in a decrease in the number of applications for housing. Mr Secretary of State, you launched a plan to reduce the number of reception places several months ago. What's your status? How many places, especially in ILA, have you deleted? What is the phase set up to accompany this decrease in places? Fedasil presented, before the crisis, its Welcome plan based on the fact that collective reception should be the standard model and reception in ILA be reserved for certain audiences and people with a high chance of being recognized, as Syrian applicants. Can you tell us if Fedasil is considering further measures to improve its network in terms of flexibility and flexibility to best respond to incoming flows of applicants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u108	Madam President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the plan to reduce reception places, following the Council of Ministers' decision of 3 June, provided for 10,000 fewer places. Between the beginning of June 2016 and the beginning of November, the total capacity increased from 35,197 to 28,277 places, a net reduction of nearly 7,000 places. As far as ILAs and CPAS are concerned, I would point out that, so far, no decision has been taken to reduce existing capacity. The decision is only intended not to activate the allocation plan. Since some municipalities had already made efforts to create additional ILA places, it was decided to pay for these places when measures with financial consequences had already been taken. As a result, thanks to the CPAS, which had concrete opening projects and made them known to Fedasil before 30 June, an additional 1,897 places were implemented. The reduction of current places is gradually taking place. For each host structure concerned, a suitable progressive reduction schedule shall be established. This planning involves, as a first step, stopping the designation of the first arrivals to the reception structure, then, in a second step, the natural departure of the welcomed residents, e.g. following the obtaining of a residence permit, or the organisation of their transfer to another suitable reception structure. Reception places in ILA are also provided for temporary accommodation for persons who obtain a residence permit of more than three months. As soon as an asylum-seeker admitted to a reception centre obtains this status, he can be transferred to an ILA in order to be accompanied in a housing search outside the reception network. In addition, another important element of the reception model, precisely planned to anticipate any sudden increases in arrivals, is the establishment of a buffer capacity of 7,000 to 8,000 reception places within the reception network. This capability can be quickly activated if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u109	Mr Secretary of State, on three occasions, the Syrian family with two children aged five and eight have applied for a humanitarian visa in order to be able to file an asylum application in Belgium, in due form, requests which your administration has, each time, refused despite the tragic situation in Aleppo, where this family lives. You say in the press that you are not going to let the judiciary take decisions instead of the executive. But the Council for the Litigation of Foreigners has twice asked you to reconsider your decision, without any reaction on your part or on your administration, before having to take the decision itself to oblige the Belgian State to grant the humanitarian visa, so that Belgium will respect its international human rights commitments. But here too, you knowingly decided not to comply with this court decision, condemning the state today to pay 4,000 euros in periodic payments. However, if the penalty payment was reviewed, the substance of the decision was not reviewed. How come you and your administration did not react when the Aliens Litigation Council asked you to review your decision twice? In Terzake, you questioned the truthfulness of the family story and said that your services were busy doing more research. Does this mean that this research was not undertaken during the first humanitarian visa application in October 2015, nor during the second in December 2015, nor during the third in August 2016? How is that done? I come to your alternative, which concerns Lebanon. You also stated in Terzake that the reception could be done in Lebanon. Lebanon has 4.7 million inhabitants and already hosts 1.5 million refugees. Is the country able to provide education for children aged five and eight? How is it that you still consider Lebanon a valid country for the reception of these refugees? The applicant's identity was learned in the press. It is assumed that if the press knows this identity, it can only come from you or the Foreign Office. Moreover, it is erroneously stated that this family supports the Syrian regime, which is not the case. The life of this family is endangered by this revelation. How do you justify it? Did you reveal this to the press? I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u110	Mr Secretary of State, my question is on the same subject and was tabled before I knew more recent developments. I'll add them. The story is known. The court of first instance had, on the basis of a judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers, ordered you to pay a penalty payment of EUR 4 000, EUR 1 000 per applicant, per day, until you would issue a visa to a Syrian family who wanted to come to Belgium to apply for asylum. Our opinion is well known. We regret that penalty payment, on the one hand, and the judgment of the Foreign Affairs Council, on the other. We do that for two reasons. We believe that the Council of Foreign Ministers may annul a decision of the Foreign Affairs Office, but that the Council is not competent to impose an alternative decision. That is what the Council of Foreign Ministers is doing, namely to oblige you to issue a visa. There was also a penalty payment attached to that obligation. The Foreign Affairs Department and yourself have legitimate legal and substantive reasons for refusing a visa in this case. The judgment of the RVV and, in particular, the penalty payment linked to it could have set a precedent for your asylum policy, as it threatens to undermine the legality and control of the influx of refugees. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions for you. In the meantime, are there any new elements that we already know about, specifically about the background to the visa application and the visa applicants in question who support or do not support the refusal to grant the visa? In the meantime, we know that your third party proceedings have been declared admissible and found to be well founded. So the penalty payment is lucky to be off the hook. This does not, however, mean that the question of granting a visa has been answered. What decision can we expect in the future? How will the Council of Foreign Ministers deal with similar cases in the future? In the meantime, I can imagine that all this fuss has led to requests from the Foreign Affairs Office. I hope, as you have explained in various media, that you and the Foreign Affairs Office will stand firm in this regard. That is in line with the Geneva Convention. It goes without saying that it cannot be the intention to grant humanitarian visas to people who are abroad, so that they can apply for asylum here. You explained that well enough in the press. What is the state of play in the current legal proceedings in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u111	Mr Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to issue humanitarian visas and that is in the spotlight these days. There is plenty of polemics about a particular Syrian family. Honestly, I'm sorry about that. The possibility exists, but I think we should be able to use it in exceptional cases. You have a discretion there. That possibility can be used when, in a given situation, people should be able to come to our country, but not get there in one way or another, when they do have family ties here, for example. In the past, I have given an example of two adult sons who had been given asylum here, while their mother was left behind in Syria. She couldn't come to our country to apply for asylum on her own. In such cases, it is necessary and desirable for a humanitarian visa to be issued. These are exceptional cases. We see that the number of humanitarian asylum applications has increased. In a few years, that number has quadrupled. I asked questions about this a few months ago. In 2015, 843 humanitarian visas were issued, while in 2013 they were 270 humanitarian visas. The increase, of course, is also due to more conflicts, which increases the need to use such visas. However, I am sorry that the case of the Syrian family has been widely spread in the media. We normally apply the principle that individual files are not communicated, not in this committee and certainly not in the media. So I would ask everyone, including the services and also you, Mr Secretary of State, to consider keeping a certain discretion on elements in a particular dossier. Mr Secretary of State, you, along with your services, have the power to judge in a particular case, with all the elements on the table. I do not think that these elements should be thrown into the media. Pro or contra, we must give confidence to the services, who have judged on the basis of the elements in the file whether or not a visa can be issued. I think it is not done that, in future, we would be playing out every dossier and the reasons why someone gets a visa in the media. I therefore hope, Mr Secretary of State, that you will introduce a form of judicial discretion in the drafting of your new immigration code. It is not only parliamentary Members who are committed to this, it is also in your and everyone's interest not to spread too much about elements in the file, even if the media are keen to hear them. I do not think that you should take specific action from the files. Humanitarian visas are a discretionary power. However, it is good that a certain line is maintained by your services, by DVZ, when issuing such a humanitarian visa. We do the same with regularizations. A certain line is monitored when giving a regularization, although there will always be individual treatment and that will always be assessed on a case-by-case basis. One can never put everything into laws and rules. I'm not asking you to. I would ask for a certain line or logic to be used. This line may be drawn by means of an instruction or a resolution. You have just referred in the media to a resolution adopted in the Chamber. You said that the 240 Syrian Christians received a humanitarian visa because there was a resolution calling for it. If you consider that important, a new resolution may be adopted in Parliament. We can debate it and think about what elements might guide the services to issue a humanitarian visa, without concreteising it. Not everyone fits in there. It must continue to be seen with common sense, even if there is a guide, whether it is based on a resolution or an instruction from your services. I do think there should be a certain direction or guidance. How does your administration apply it? You indicated last year that your administration is examining how best to grant humanitarian visas. Did your administration and the Commissioner-General examine this further? What's the outcome? What line are you holding? Is there a particular way of working? Do you like the proposal for a certain line, instruction or resolution? In a recent statement by the Council on Aliens' Contests, the Council states that you must issue a visa to a Syrian family. Are you not obliged to comply with that judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers, even if there is a cassation appeal? I don't think an appeal is suspensive. On the basis of what legal arguments do you put that judgment next to you? I don't want to go into the file myself. I don't want to talk about that file. I am quite clear: I am not talking about that family or about another family, but about the principle. If there is a new case of this kind tomorrow, do you have to implement the Council's decision on foreign disputes, after which one can appeal and review the decision, or should it not? I say that in general, because such cases may still occur in the future. Finally, how many humanitarian visas were delivered in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u112	Mr Secretary of State, a great deal has already been said about this, so I will not repeat everything in my introduction. I agree with Mrs Lanjri's comment on commentary or information on individual dossiers. I know from my past as OCMW chairman that I was never allowed to do that either. This is sometimes frustrating because it is not possible to use certain arguments, but it is necessary to put oneself above them as a responsible politician. One can discuss principles, but please do not distribute individual information on a specific dossier, however difficult it may be. I do not really want to rule whether or not the judgment has been dropped correctly or whether there are gaps in it. That's a discussion for lawyers on their own. I do have some other questions. Do you consider that the Belgian State may ignore decisions of the judiciary which are enforceable in stock? For the record, I also asked Minister None. If so, do you consider that an individual may likewise ignore a decision that is enforceable in stock? If not, what will you do to ensure that the Belgian State implements the decisions of the judiciary? Do you consider that there is a violation of the principle of the separation of powers in the case? What criteria do you use to determine whether or not you will execute an enforceable judgment? That question is a little similar to the one that Mrs Lanjri has just asked. Finally, you say you want to avoid a precedent. Was it not therefore an option to grant visas and at the same time appeal to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u113	Firstly, in relation to the legal issue, a cassation appeal was filed in good time with the Council of State. The Council of State will look into this. It's about the essence. Does Article 3 of the ECHR work in two directions? Does the ECHR apply outside the European territory? Is Article 3 a two-way article? Does non-refoulement mean that not only can people not be sent back on the basis of Article 3 because of the risk of threat or torture, but that it can also be invoked to allow people to enter? That was never the intention of the legislator, not even of the European legislator, but that is the interpretation given to it by a particular court of the RVV. Secondly, we have the story of the third-party action, the story of the civil court, in which the lawyers have announced that they will appeal. The preliminary hearing of that appeal is tomorrow before the Brussels appeal court. There the deadlines will be agreed to lay down the conclusions. We will find out tomorrow. Thirdly, there is a very similar case, also of a Syrian family, about which the General Assembly of the Council for Foreign Affairs discussed last Wednesday. The General Assembly of the RVV, i.e. not an individual judge, will rule on the principle. I look forward to that. There's something you need to know. What is the state of play on the legal issue? Do you want me to issue the visa? The court of third parties has clearly stated that it would be logical for me not to grant the visa, since the appeal is still pending in cassation. If I grant the visa and I win the appeal in cassation, because the judge finds that my interpretation is the right one and the first judge was wrong, then I cannot send those involved back to Syria, at least I assume you do not want to. By the way, that is the correct direction of Article 3, non-refoulement. We can't send those involved back to Aleppo. If we get those involved, but then we get right afterwards, it means they're staying here permanently, because I can't send them back. That is why I will not issue them a visa. You should read the judgment of the third party defendant, it is also very interesting on that point. If it is said here that I must exercise discretion, then that is correct. I'm doing the same thing. I must say that I have already had individual questions here from each of you about individual cases. I have already had to answer questions about individual cases five times in plenary, including the penalty payment for Afghan. I know perfectly well who asked the questions. I will make an interesting list of the individual cases with the name of who asked the question and what my answer was. Individual cases are very often dealt with here. What does the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber say? You should check with the secretary of the committee, Madam President. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber say that individual dossiers are not dealt with unless they have a certain media value. That is the argument that is being put forward, so that I would answer the individual questions about a particular individual case. That's what I've done. Just so we're clear, I didn't put the file in the press. The story has begun with a press release from the person's lawyers. Then the ball went rolling with fairly heavy accusations, legal nonsense, nonsense. What did I have to read? I think it would be my role as a representative of the general interest to answer as a representative of the government, as I have answered in Parliament all the possible questions that I have been asked about individual cases. I will certainly make a list of cases of, among other things, medical regularisation and periodic penalty payments in the context of the asylum crisis. I remember a number of things even more vividly and the questioners even more vividly. I really don't have to take the claim that I'm throwing all the things out in the open. I absolutely disagree with that. For a lot of things, they've been beaten up by the media. Then one can expect me to defend myself on behalf of my administration, on behalf of my authority in the government. That is not only my right, but also my duty, as it is my right and duty to appeal. I would traverse the separation of powers and have no respect for the separation of powers. But I'm just going to appeal, a profession that I won, for the record. I also intend to win all the following professions in that case. We shall see what will be decided. This is a matter of principle and I will not give in to it at all. Again, it is unseen that the court imposes the granting of a humanitarian visa by an administrative court such as the RVV, on the basis of principles which are never intended initially by the legislator to that effect, namely the extraterratoriality of the European Convention on Human Rights and the two-way movement of Article 3 with the principle of non-refoulement. That was never meant to happen, nor is it applied in any European country. Finally, I would like to comment on the comments on humanitarian visas. If Parliament is to reach a consensus in order to draw up a proposal for a resolution in this respect, Parliament should do so. It's not for me to decide. I can only say that I have not changed the application of Article 9 on humanitarian visas in our Alien Law of 1980. But I do apply them much more than any previous government. We show ourselves, as a government, very generous. We do that four times more than the previous government and still much more than when purple-green was in power. I think that's important. There were fewer refugees at the time, but even then we are relatively giving out more humanitarian visas. By the way, I do not issue humanitarian visas to applicants because they have friends here. It is if they have family here and if there is sufficient justification for this, if there is no problem with public order, if there is no criminal record and if there is sufficient certainty that we can organise the journey properly. Then I'll give you a humanitarian visa. It happens every day. Every day my administration issues several humanitarian visas. I think we are doing this in a very correct way. Do those criteria have to be in the law? No. You didn't say that either. Should these criteria or suggestions on criteria be included in a resolution proposal? It is for Parliament to decide on this. I am well aware that I have in no way given instructions on humanitarian vision other than those of my predecessors. I'm just applying the scheme a lot more. We're generous. That is also good, because it is the biggest refugee crisis ever with the largest number of refugees ever. It is the biggest humanitarian problem since the Second World War due to the war in Syria and Iraq. If bombs are to be bombed there, the consequences must also be borne in part. That means helping refugees and issuing humanitarian visas, and we are doing so. Some will say that it is far too little, but on the other hand I can say that there are far more than when the Socialists were in power. I think that's important, too. There were a lot of refugees back then. There have been tens of millions of refugees worldwide for years. I think we're applying the scheme correctly, but I'm always open to suggestions. I think I have answered all the questions. We will await the results; I am very curious. Tomorrow there will be the preliminary hearing before the court of appeal and the ruling will follow in the general session of the RVV on an equivalent case. The case in cassation will be a while. In the meantime, I'm not paying a penalty and I'm not issuing a visa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u114	Mr Secretary of State, what is at issue is not that the matter is mentioned in the press, but that the name of the family has been disclosed because it is now threatened, especially since it is presented as a family that supports the regime in place, which is not the case. That is what is serious. If the family's lawyers decided to publish the file in the press, it would be surprising if they had decided to give the name of the family in question. Indeed, they knew the risk of such an initiative for their client. In doing so, who is responsible for the disclosure of the family name?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u115	The name has been circulating on Progress Lawyers Network's Facebook page for days. I'm sorry, but what you're saying isn't right, and I really don't have to take what you're telling me here. I know who instructs you; I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u116	Why are you always so wary? They try to make a number of comments in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u117	Serious accusations are being made here by Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u118	You could answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u119	I replied and I hope it is in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u120	This may be included in the report. As far as I'm concerned, I have another interpretation of this. Beyond being included in the press, you do not respect the decision of a judicial body. It's as simple as that. You may have good reasons for this, you have explained your argument, but from the moment a judicial body imposes something, it must be respected. You say you won in court. You won on the issue of periodic penalty payments, but you didn't win on the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u121	Not yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u122	Nevertheless, the decision is there. In my opinion, the fact that you are going to cassation is not suspensive. A decision has been made and you do not respect it. This is very serious considering the separation of powers. Indeed, if in a society we no longer respect judicial decisions, where are we going? You did not provide any answers to that question. You turned around the pot, but you didn't answer my question about the fact that a decision was made and you don't respect it. You say they don't have the power to impose anything. But is it normal to refuse their decision several times? Every time, you, or in any case the Office of Foreigners is overtaken. From the moment the Office of Foreigners systematically restarts the machine, despite a clear position of the Council, it is normal for them to adopt a more offensive position towards you. Again, this situation is the result of your refusal to apply a very clear decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u123	Mr Van Hees, I do not know if you are a lawyer, but if you are, at least you are a very inventive lawyer. You suggest that if DVZ fails to comply with the ruling of the Council of Foreign Ministers on a number of occasions, the Council of Foreigners will over time have the right to stand in the place of DVZ. That is what you explained at the end. That is an interesting discussion, but it seems to me to be completely incorrect. What is also incorrect is that you claim that the Secretary of State has no respect for judgments. It is not because he is appealing against a decision which is a good right, because we are living in a rule of law in which there are remedies which can be exploited and exhausted by everyone, including by a member of the government, because that is also a principle of the rule of law that he would question the principle of the separation of powers. The separation of powers is fully respected. It is even the responsibility of the asylum and migration policy manager to stand up for the consistent attitude, principles and general principles of law, which are the result of asylum and migration policy. It is only normal and even the bloody duty of a member of the government, who now happens to be responsible for asylum and migration policy, to properly monitor that policy. It is his job to appeal that decision, just because there was a danger that a precedent would be created in this respect on the basis of two interpretations of general principles of law and basic principles of the European Convention on Human Rights, which we believe, and in his view, were interpreted in a completely wrong and far too broad way. I'm declaring myself. The Secretary of State explained the principle of non-refoulement. The fact that a refugee cannot be returned to the conflict zone on our territory is only normal and is more than accepted. This is a principle of law and also a principle of the Geneva Convention. However, the principle is being extended here. This enlargement almost obliges someone who would come from the war zone to enter and give asylum. This undermines all the principles of the Geneva Convention which apply for many years and basically undermines the whole of European asylum policy. I believe and am convinced that the attitude of the Secretary of State is the right one, namely that we oppose the threat of such an incident being accepted in general. In this way it would be accepted that a humanitarian visa is the new way of entering a European country, in this case Belgium, to apply for asylum. The whole system is called into question and then one can start again from scratch. We are not in favour of remembering the whole principle. We therefore continue to support the attitude of the Secretary of State towards the Council of Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u124	I understand the concern that we do not want to review the entire asylum system and to do so as the only country. That doesn't work! It is true that people have the right to apply for asylum if they are on our territory. It's not like everyone gets asylum, too. So far, there is no possibility to apply for asylum directly through the embassy. In war zones, this would lead to massive applications for asylum. In itself, purely theoretically, there is something to be said for the closure of murderous routes, but that can only be done in a global context. The only way to prevent people from risking their lives is to focus on resettlement. We should, above all, follow the path of resolution. People who do not have the opportunity to leave their region or who do not want to risk their lives by drowning at sea should be able to stay in their immediate region. It is up to us and the other European countries to make a contribution so that people can come to our country in a safe way through, among other things, resolution. I therefore understand your reluctance. We must not fall into adventures. The Council of Foreign Ministers itself said that this was the first time that such a decision was taken. This is unseen. The same Council also said that DVZ was forced to issue a visa because it had always been asked to justify the decision, and that did not happen. The discretion lies with the Secretary of State and not with the Council of Foreigners' Disputes, and rightly so. If, however, the Council of Foreign Ministers asks for a justification, this should also be done in the future so that such cases can be avoided. My question is not whether you have exceeded your powers by appealing. Of course, you have the right to appeal. Maybe you'll get it right after all. I do not want to speak on this dossier because I do not know all the elements. Only your services know all the elements, so I do not want to go down on that. You may be right and the family concerned should not receive a visa, but you may be wrong. I do not want to comment on that, it is not about that. It's about the fact that you have to honor the decision. Normally, a decision by the Council on Aliens' Contests must be carried out. That does not prevent one from appealing at the same time. That was my question. I understand your concern that you are saddled with a visa with those involved. And if you're agreed, you can't send them back. That's right. However, the principles in force must be respected unless we ourselves change the legislation. If the law states that a decision of the Council for Aliens' Contests is not suspensive, that decision must be enforced, with all possible consequences. Finally, the debate on discretion. In these and other files, the DVZ has the right to judge all elements of the file. I do not think that we should throw all the elements of the file into the media and let people judge that family with two babies, or that someone has taken a picture with Assad in the background, because they will soon be judged to be boyfriends. All these elements play a part, and those elements must be kept in the file. It is true that there have been such cases in the past, such as that of Navid Sharifi, in which people have organised themselves against expulsion, which has led to discussions in Parliament during the previous legislature. I do not think that elements from a file, the beze of Navid Sharifi or the current or future file, should be communicated, whether positive or negative. There's secrecy; let DVZ judge that. We should not know that, all these elements should not be made public, so that people begin to talk about them. Of course, you are not in control of what the families or lawyers themselves write about, but I think it would be safer for everyone to continue to exercise some caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u125	Mr Secretary of State, there are still a few comments. Firstly, you literally said you couldn't issue the visa because if you won, you couldn't send those people back. You didn't tell me why you can't send them back. I thought there was a regulation that would allow a visa or papers to be withdrawn if wrong information had been given. If you mean you can't send them back to a war zone, the reasoning can also be reversed. If it is a war zone then why is their application for a humanitarian visa not justified? Secondly, as far as the media is concerned, you know the discussion: if they go down, you must go up. However, I would argue that we should not take a number of elements out of it and make them public, because this can lead to a balance sheet on one side or the other and not to a balanced vision of a dossier. Thirdly, it is very positive that you say that you give much more papers to refugees than previous governments in this country. I think it is very positive that you are taking care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic534x.u126	In view of the hour, we must now end our work. That means that not all the questions have been dealt with, but that will be for a forthcoming committee meeting. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 14879 will be converted into a written question.
