ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, I am taking over from my colleagues Wouter De Vriendt and Benoit Hellings, who regularly ask you about such situations. In the municipality of Gesves, in the province of Namur, a large number of citizens are mobilizing to obtain from the Office of Foreigners that a family of Georgian origin is not forced to leave our country. This strong mobilization, in which local political leaders of all parties, as well as doctors, nurses, associations and schools, are involved, is due in particular to the medical situation of one of the children of the family concerned. Indeed, this little girl suffers from a cerebral infirmity that obliges her to move in a wheelchair. Since arriving in Belgium, she has been undergoing treatment at the Clinique universitaire de Mont-Godinne, whose effects are extremely encouraging. Unfortunately, however, this follow-up will not be possible if it is confirmed that the family is returned to Georgia. I know that we cannot, of course, deal with any particular situation here. I mention it as an example. However, I would like to know more about how the Foreign Office deals with such situations and how you can act on them. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me how the fact that an asylum-seeker is receiving medical treatment in Belgium, which is impossible for him to receive in his country of origin, is taken into account by the Office of Foreigners when processing the application? Given our international commitments and from a moral point of view, do you consider it acceptable and normal that individuals with a severe disability and with vital medical treatment that is inaccessible to their country of origin should be expelled to their country of origin? What directives have you given in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u2	Mr President, honourable Member, I can provide you with the following information. First, the state of health of an alien does not constitute a ground for granting refugee status. However, the person concerned is free to apply for regularization on medical grounds under section 9ter of the Aliens Act. Next, any person subject to removal must be examined in advance to ensure that his or her health will allow him or her to travel. In addition, during the medical intake, it is checked whether the resident is fit to stay in the centre. If the alien suffers from a specific disease, it will be examined to what extent the treatment is available in the country of origin. If the medical treatment is short-lived and the disease can be treated by medication, the foreigner will receive the necessary drugs and clear instructions on how to use them. Or, agreements will be made with a treating physician in the country of origin so that the medicines required by the person concerned are administered there at the expense of the Agency. The same applies to longer treatments. The Agency is examining the possibilities of continuing treatment in the country of origin and, in this regard, is looking for partners who are able to administer this treatment on the spot. It may be financed by the Office for up to one year. If necessary, it can be started before departure from the closed centre. If the doctor of the centre considers that the person cannot have the necessary medical treatment in the country of origin, the Agency will be notified accordingly. The removal will not take place until treatment is continued in Belgium or until it is unavailable in the country of origin. The administration has established internal instructions in this regard to ensure that medical monitoring is carried out in an optimal manner in consultation with the centre's doctor and the various competent departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. We expect more humanity from the asylum policy in our country. In this case, I have noted the medical criteria applicable to specific situations. It seems to me that the file meets the conditions for the continuation of the stay in Belgium since, according to my information, the necessary medical treatment is not available in the country of origin of the family concerned. But this is not a question of judging a particular case in committee. However, I hope that the Office will reach such a conclusion in this and other similar cases. An application for regularization on medical grounds under section 9ter of the Aliens Act may indeed be made by the family. In this case, I think that is what has been done. I can provide you with additional information after my reply. I hope that this will be a positive step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the pre-reception competence of asylum seekers has been highly sought for two years now, following the conflict around the Middle East Mediterranean. This crisis has had to be managed by the federal government and never so many pre-reception places have been created in our country. A few weeks ago, information was published on the possible closure of reception spaces. According to some reports, 10,000 reception places for asylum seekers would be closed and the distribution plan, in view of the current flows, should not, in the end, be activated. How many asylum seekers have been accepted under this federal pre-reception jurisdiction since January 1st of this year? How many reception places have been closed since 1 January and how many pre-reception places are estimated to be needed in the coming months to ensure proper management of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u5	Dear colleague, until the end of March 2016, Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen organized the pre-reception at the WTC III. The exact number of people welcomed is unknown to me. The Red Cross organized, until the end of April 2016, the pre-reception of 3,171 people in the WTC III. Since 25 April 2016, Fedasil has been organizing the pre-reception through partners, through which 1,168 people have been welcomed until 8 July 2016. At the end of March 2016, 800 places of the Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen were closed in the pre-hosting of the WTC III. At the end of April 2016, 500 Red Cross seats were closed in the pre-reception of the WTC III. Since the end of April and the beginning of May 2016, Fedasil has organised the pre-reception, via partner Samu Béjar (Samusocial website in Brussels). Currently, 400 beds are provided for which an average of 70 beds are used for pre-reception. In recent days, the number of asylum seekers has increased somewhat. Since 1 July 2016, 250 seats are planned and there are 150 buffer places on the Neder-Over-Heembeek site. Normally, that's enough. If this is not enough, we will look for other places. There are free places.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u7	Mr President, the Secretary of State, last year, there were some difficulties in setting up the Grand Cold Plan in Tournai. Indeed, for years, it was the Saint-Jean barracks that welcomed the homeless during the night in the winter season. Last year, however, as the barracks were requisitioned to accommodate migrants, homeless accommodation in the BM9 block of the barracks was not possible. A solution had to be found urgently by the city of Tournai, via its CPAS, which provided a building for the homeless. This solution was taken because of a blatant lack of response on your part, despite the promises made at the time by the government. National Defence had promised that the homeless would be accommodated at the Saint John barracks as a result of exchanges with the Urban Social Relay in Tournai. Furthermore, on 6 October 2015, you assured me that the problem of hosting the homeless in Tournai for the Grand Cold Plan was on your agenda and that you had raised this issue with Ms.Sleurs before the decision was taken on the assignment of asylum seekers to the barracks. The note of the Council of Ministers of 7 August 2015 also stated that a solution would be sought between your cabinet and those of Mrs Sleurs and Mr Vandeput. Mr Secretary of State, the building provided by the Tournai CPAS and used to accommodate the homeless last year as part of the Grand Cold Plan is now on sale as part of the restructuring of the Picardy Wallonia Hospital Centre. Another solution must therefore be found and, as the saying goes, "governance is to foresee". I therefore believe that it is more than time to act. Will you and the government abide by the promises made last year? Will you be proactive in finding a solution for housing the homeless during the next winter in Tournai? Will Mrs Sleurs also contribute to this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u8	Mr Delannois, at the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2015, it was confirmed that a solution would be sought for the 30 homeless who used the Saint John barracks in Tournai. We found a solution with the city of Tournai and its CPAS, who did a good job. For the future, I propose to hold a meeting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am of course open to any proposal to organize a meeting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u10	Mr.President, Secretary of State, in May 2016, as many as 168 illegal offenders or criminals were returned to their country, a number that confirms an upward trend in the number of people expelled. Indeed, of 50 people expelled in January 2014, we had already reached 130 in January 2016. An increase would be explained, inter alia, by conditional release measures granted to these detainees in exchange for removal from the Territory, which was extended from two to six months before the end of the sentence. In addition, the agreement on security and data exchange signed with Morocco last April could contribute to further strengthening these statistics by increasing the sharing of information between our two countries, allowing for faster confirmation of the identity of the foreign national, which will facilitate his repatriation if necessary. Mr Secretary of State, my questions on this subject are as follows: in addition to the above measures, are other measures currently under consideration within your departments in order to further strengthen the policy of repatriation of illegal prisoners of foreign nationality in the future? Can you give me more details on the state of play of the entry into force of the agreement on security and data exchange with Morocco? If it is already applicable, do you have an initial assessment of the results obtained?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, from an operational point of view, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Foreign Office already has an inmate identification service (DID) for several years, with the aim of identifying prisoners if possible during their stay in the prison. Not only do officers conduct interviews with inmates, monitor their registry records, but they also inform them about their rights, obligations, procedures, etc. I intend to strengthen this service so that more prisoners can be seen and convinced to cooperate in the identification process. It's not just an intention because I've already strengthened the DID. In addition, the Agency will install video-conferencing tools in several prisons. This will prevent consular officers from having to move to prisons. They will be able to interact with their fellow citizens remotely and safely. The identification processes can thus be accelerated. A pilot project is already under way in the prisons of Merksplas and Jamioulx as well as in the closed centre for illegals in Merksplas. The first results are very positive. In addition, a working group has been set up to ensure optimal collaboration and exchange of information between the Office, the Justice FPS and the Prison Service. We have a COTER (Coördinatie Terugkeer) group, which I chair and whose sub-group is devoted to coordination between the Office, Justice and Foreign Affairs. Many firms are involved as well as high-level officials, who are empowered to make decisions, which is important. On the legislative front, on 7 July, the Council of Ministers decided to put an end to the right of residence of foreign criminals responsible for serious crimes. This is particularly the case for detainees whose stay may be withheld. There are fewer categories of exception. You've probably read that. Since the Moroccan authorities, the DGSN, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Interior, the Embassy and the Consulates General still have to develop a procedure with the Office, a MoU will be introduced. It is still too early to produce identification results. In addition, a secure computer line must be installed. In any case, since the signing of this agreement on 22 April 2016, collaboration with Moroccans has been constantly improving. This is not just a question of technical aspects. We also have a MoU, and it must be noted that our two countries are showing good will. Madam, I have figures in my possession that I can give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your fairly complete answer, as is your habit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u13	Mr President, Secretary of State, at the end of 2015, UNICEF organised a European conference and a Belgian seminar on the Child Notices Reports on children's rights published by UNICEF in various countries. These reports are a joint initiative of UNICEF departments in the Netherlands, Belgium and Sweden and deal with countries where a large number of asylum applications are submitted. One of the objectives of the reports is to provide a detailed picture of the child rights situation in the country of origin, so that this knowledge can be given sufficient weight in asylum and migration procedures. One in four asylum seekers in the European Union is a child and the situation of children and adults in their country of origin is not necessarily the same. Children are in many cases confronted with other or additional risk derivatives in their country of origin, such as child marriages, violence, exploitation and genital mutilation. The methodology behind the Child Notices Reports is publicly available, which allows for such reports to be made for other countries of origin as well. Mr Secretary of State, I have several questions on this matter. Have you taken note of the reports currently being drawn up for Albania, Afghanistan, Morocco and Guinea? What elements of these reports will you include in your policy on asylum and migration? How do you intend to concretely shape these elements in order to safeguard the interests of children, as mentioned in Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Have you discussed these reports with UNICEF? What was discussed there? Which aspects do you take with you or not? Is regular consultations with UNICEF on these reports and their content planned in the future? Does Belgium intend to make country of origin information reports on children's rights? This question is linked to a question which I had initially tabled as a written question, but which I did not receive an answer to. I apologize for asking that question orally now, because it is actually a question of figures. UNICEF has also recently issued a UNICEF Child Notices Report on Guinea. One of the objectives of this publication is to encourage policy makers to take into account the aspect of children's rights. How many asylum applications were submitted from Guinea during the years 2010 to 2015? How many of these asylum applications concerned minors, and more specifically accompanied minors and unaccompanied minors? How many of these applications received a positive result? Mr Secretary of State, I understand if you give me a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, recently Child Focus presented its annual report. I would like to raise one point in this report. This is an increase in the number of cases of disappearances of MENA. In 2015, Child Focus processed nearly three times more cases of MENA's disappearance compared to 2014, and this trend continues for 2016. In fact, 32 new files were opened between January and May 2016. According to the organization, these figures would be only the tip of the iceberg, given the difficulty in estimating the exact number of disappearances. Needless to say, these young people are at greater risk of becoming victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation, given their extremely precarious situation. On the occasion of the release of the 2008 report of the follow-up to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child in Belgium, the authorities had undertaken to examine the problem of MENA which disappeared shortly after their arrival in Belgium, and also to intensify their efforts to draw up a picture of the situation of MENA through transparent, reliable and complete figures. This element will receive particular attention within the existing structures of consultation between the different levels of power. The competent authorities will ensure that the statistics collected by the various authorities on disappearances are coordinated as a matter of urgency. The competent authorities will intensify their efforts to take stock of the detention of children, accompanied by comprehensive and reliable figures. Given that this point was raised at the last plenary of the National Commission on the Rights of the Child, and that it will be subject to further analysis at the time of the presentation of the next periodic follow-up report of the CIDE announced in early 2019, could you answer these few questions? What progress has Belgium made in this area since 2008? What commitments do you intend to make, as Secretary of State for Asylum for Migration, in collaboration with the relevant federal entities, to address this issue and to respect the commitment made by Belgium in the above-mentioned report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I have the answer to your written question and I will give it to you immediately. Due to the asylum crisis, I have been delayed in answering the written questions, for which I apologise. This delay is now being overtaken. I hope this will not be necessary again next year but first things first. I hope for your leniency. As for your question about UNICEF's Child Notices Reports, the CGVS is competent for assessing asylum applications. That's an independent agency. The CGVS has informed me that the reports are known to them. Both the Belgian asylum services and members of my cabinet attended UNICEF study day on these reports. We were well represented there. Both people from the administration, the CGVS and my cabinet were present. UNICEF Belgium's representative had a meeting at the CGVS with coordinators and with unaccompanied minors on these reports. In November 2015, the CGVS also participated in an international expert meeting on these Child Notices, as well as members of the European Parliament and the European Commission. The CGVS was recently contacted by UNICEF to participate in an external evaluation of the Child Notices. For the CGVS, these reports are important, along with many other reports and sources, as a source of information, on the situation in the countries of origin. The analysis of these sources and the concept of best interest of the child shall be assessed by the CGVS in the light of the definitions of refugee and subsidiary protection, independently and under the control and jurisdiction of the RVV. The assessment shall take into account the individual situation of each asylum seeker. The CGVS has not made a general analysis of the cases where the information contained in UNICEF's reports is or is not taken into account. The CGVS shall draw up reports taking into account the situations and profiles of asylum seekers. When assessing asylum applications, the situation of children is, of course, taken into account. Both Cedoca and CGMS study services and Fedasil's study and policy services draw up specific COI reports on country-by-country country of origin, with particular attention being paid to vulnerable groups such as women and children. As indicated, the Belgian Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless was involved in drawing up the UNICEF reports. As the CGVS independently decides on asylum applications, I have not had direct contact with UNICEF on these reports. Protection of the most vulnerable is one of the pillars of our policy. I therefore welcome UNICEF's initiative to pay particular attention to this. A key feature of the COI, the country of origin information, is that it needs to be updated continuously. I therefore hope that UNICEF will continue to monitor the situation after the publication of these initial reports. Mrs Thoron, I come to your first question about the MENA's missing files. With regard to the MENA centres in Fedasil and the host partners, some progress has been made. Thus, each reception centre has a fixed procedure for disappearances. In order to obtain uniform and rapid signs, this procedure shall contain the measures to be taken once the disappearance is found, i.e. the criteria for categorising the disappearance as worrying or not, as well as the methods of communication, including a standardised marking sheet. This procedure is communicated during the training of new collaborators for the centres for MENA and to the new reception structures. In 2015, a working group reviewed operational measures to improve the implementation of the disappearance protocol signed by Child Focus, the Office of Foreigners, the Guardianship Service, the Brussels Police and Fedasil. The protocol is applied for the Neder-Over-Heembeek and Steenokkerzeel observation and orientation centres. The results of the working group relate to the updating of vulnerability criteria and the timing of communication with Child Focus. Each reception centre has a framework agreement with the local police, under which regular consultations are planned with the local police. The aim is to improve collaboration, including in cases of disappearance. As regards the support of MENA in reception centres, various measures have been taken. Thus, each MENA arriving in the territory and receiving it through the host network is recorded electronically upon arrival. This record makes it possible to have the basic data for the preparation of the missing person's card to be sent to the police. The reception route provides for the reception of all the first arrivals in the observation and orientation centre. One of the tasks of these centres is to put in place the necessary protective measures to limit the worrying disappearances of the MENA, in particular through intensive monitoring of the youth network (withdrawal of the gsm, permission system and visits, accompanying the exits of the MENA, continuous monitoring 7 days a week and 24 hours a day). The aim of this observation period is to detect vulnerabilities in order to determine protection measures specific to the needs of young people (accompaniment to each exit, request for priority guardianship designation, etc.).). If a case of trafficking in human beings is suspected, the Observation and Guidance Centre (COO) contacts a specialized centre to establish the need for reception in a protected and confidential centre. Finally, in case of disturbing disappearance, the COO immediately contacts the Youth Unit of the competent police. Depending on the situation, the police are moving to collect information from the COO, including on known MENA networks. We propose to extend at the national level the protocol of disappearance signed by Child Focus, the Office of Foreigners, the Guardianship Service, the police services and Fedasil. With regard to your second question, Mrs Thoron, in response to the opinion of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child (CNDE), the Government had proposed a meeting with the Commission to discuss the added value of a cross-sectional provision on the rights of the child in the Act of 15 December 1980. A first meeting was held on 14 March 2016. A second, scheduled to take place on 25 May, was postponed. I am reviewing with my administration the results of this discussion and will make a decision as to whether or not to propose to the government the introduction of such a provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer on the Child Notices Reports. It is good that your cabinet and the CGVS took part in that seminar and that the country of origin information reports are also being worked on. In drawing up the question, we have also contacted UNICEF. They themselves stated that Belgium actually has the most protective system for unaccompanied minors. They did mention two points of concern with regard to the accompanied minors. They say that, in comparison with other countries, the individual situation and the child rights situation of children are not sufficiently taken into account to hear the story of the child. There is also a strong evolution on the CGVS and women are now more involved and heard individually because women often have a different story than men in terms of oppression and rights. As far as the accompanying children are concerned, according to UNICEF and in comparison with other countries, our country is not yet doing enough to find out the individual situation of the child in question. That is what they see. A second bottleneck. When children are sent back, there are also criteria that governments can follow to determine the safety situation for the child and whether there is a family there that can take care of it. According to UNICEF today, insufficient research is being carried out into whether there is a sustainable solution for the child on the ground. That is what they have quoted. They say that we do excel in the field of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u17	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your very precise answers. I will allow myself to ask you again in some time to have further information in the follow-up to these dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u18	Minister, I have also asked the Minister of Justice this question because the Ministry of Justice falls within the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, but it is for the most part your competence. That is why I would like to ask you the question about the margin of error in the bone scans for alleged minor asylum seekers. Several specialists have questions about the accuracy of the bone scans that seek to determine the actual age of asylum seekers who claim to be minors but who have doubts about the DVZ. The questions of the specialists mainly concern the large margin of error of 2 years, which makes the bone scans far from accurate. Of the approximately 5 000 unaccompanied minors, the DVZ had doubts about more than 2 000 cases. Of these 2 000, approximately 1 500 young people were of age. This means that the DVZ's doubts are often justified. Mr Secretary of State, can anything be done about the margin of error? Can the test be refined so that the error margin of 2 years can be reduced? Can research into age happen in a different, possibly better way? Is there any possibility of interpreting the results and the margin of error to the detriment of the applicant instead of in favour of the applicant, as is currently the case? How can you ensure that people who deliberately lie about their actual age, in order to obtain special protection for underage asylum seekers, no longer put their hopes on the 2 year margin of error in the outcome of the bone scans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, where the identification of each adult stranger is a competence of the Foreign Affairs Office, the identification of each minor asylum seeker and unaccompanied minor is a competence of the Voogdij Department. The Voogdij Service thus determines the age of the minor asylum seeker, taking into account different parameters: the bone scan, possibly a conversation with the person concerned, any documents, any information from other countries, information in the administrative file of the person concerned, etc. The result of the bone scan is a probability calculation that leaves a margin, both upwards and downwards. Hence, additional information such as documents and information from other countries should therefore not be included in the final age decision. Nowadays, these documents are not taken into account enough. The Voogdij Service interprets the result in favour of the minor. There are certainly adults who abuse the broad margin of interpretation in order to enjoy the benefits for a minor. If the Voogdij Service determines the minority, it shall also determine the date on which the foreigner will be regarded as a majority and therefore the guardianship will be terminated. If the Voogdij Department declares that the person concerned is of age, the age is determined by the Foreign Affairs Office. There have been discussions between the two administrations to leave the identification of minors to the Foreign Affairs Office in the future, which is also mentioned in the government agreement. A few weeks ago, I sat together with my fellow Minister None to discuss this further. We're not here yet, but I live on hope. There are many reasons why someone is falsely declaring themselves underage, such as less chance of Dublin taking over, chance of graduation, more chance of family reunification, more benefit from the doubt at the CGVS, but also better care and better guidance, as you know. It is very important to establish as soon as possible whether or not we are dealing with a de facto minor or with a person who falsely expresses himself as a minor. This is necessary in order to be able to apply the correct procedure and also in order not to grant the reception reserved for minors to someone who is simply not entitled to it. Therefore, the age limit should be the best on the day of the application for asylum itself. A quick age study gives a quick age result and so there will no longer be any direct benefit associated with lying about his age. Should the transfer of the identification of minors become a competence of the DVD, it will also always take account of documents identifying possible abuse. If the DVZ were competent, it could be further investigated to have the age studies carried out at the DVZ itself. This not only results in a faster age outcome, it is also cost-effective in our view. It is true that there are no consequences today for the abuse of the status of minors, but any fraud that can be proven can be taken into account. If someone says he's a minor, he's 16 years old, but the bone scan shows that he's 26 years old, the Commissioner-General will take it with him. It's always the same. The more unbelievable the story, the more the other elements of the asylum story will be thoroughly investigated, the more will be investigated whether it is true who one is, whether it is true from where one comes, whether it is true from what one has experienced, why one should have international protection. It doesn't do the business any good to lie about age. That's the first thing people ask. If one is lying about that, it does not give the services much confidence, which is understandable. It will be taken into account. I read that you have an interesting bill on the subject. Parliament's year is almost over. After each parliamentary year, there is only one certainty that a new one will begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. There is indeed a bill pending regarding the reimbursement of the bone scans. I have heard a number of other, perhaps even more interesting, slopes in your answer. You say that quick judgment is important. That's a fact. The longer the procedure takes, the longer it takes to know whether the asylum seeker is a minor, the longer it takes to judge. This duration is very expensive, because the people need to be taken care of in the meantime. You are right to say that it would be better, in terms of efficiency, for the DVZ to be fully competent in this matter. With some respect, we have known for years that it is an inconsistency that the Ministry of Justice is competent for this smaller part of the asylum story, while everything else falls within your competence. I think that we should make proposals in this respect and work on the fact that this piece falls entirely within the scope of the DVD. Then additional information on age should not be taken into account occasionally or possibly, but should always be taken into account. That goes without saying. I would like to conclude from your reply that there is again substance for further parliamentary work. I'll put my shoulders on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question relates to the offer of three medical consultants for the Office of Foreigners published on the Selor site and whose deadline for application was May 23rd. According to the description of the announcement, medical consultants will have the task of rendering opinions on applications for residence on medical grounds. Mr Secretary of State, I have already had the opportunity to address, with you, the position of the medical consultants in the examination of the 9ter applications. Today, my questions are technical. So, is it in these files that you are making these commitments? If not, for what other reasons? Is it a question of replacing individual departures or have you simply decided to broaden the framework, which would be good news? If medical consultants have left, do we know the reasons for leaving?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u22	Mr President, Mr Kir, if, at the request of the administration, the Selor has issued a call to medical consultants candidates "9ter", it is obvious that the reason for this call is that which appears in the announcement published. This is the replacement, following natural departure, of medical consultants who take their pensions or who have decided to leave voluntarily for another federal job. Personal reasons for departure are never requested by the administration because they are a matter of the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, Human Rights Watch recently reported that child labour among Syrian refugee children is constantly increasing. The organisation talks about at least half a million Syrian children in Turkey who do not go to school. One of the causes is that they have to work to survive. The children's families cannot miss their children's income, because the rents are very high due to the influx of many refugees. The children make working days of 12 hours, 6 days a week for a wage that is between 50 and 200 euros per month. Moreover, a European Union report on trafficking in human beings shows that more and more refugee children are also victims of criminal gangs forcing them into slavery in the sex industry, among others. Of the 96 000 children travelling alone who applied for asylum in Europe in 2015, at least 10 000 disappeared from the sight of the authorities. These facts are, to say the least, disturbing and, on the one hand, indicate a violation of the rights of the child by Turkey and, on the other hand, a poor follow-up and supervision of unaccompanied minor refugees arriving in Turkey or Europe. I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, are you aware of the increasing child labour among Syrian refugees in Turkey? Secondly, since Europe has partly facilitated the problem with the Turkish-European migration deal, do you not think it is the responsibility of the Belgian Government to take a position on this? Thirdly, Turkey has made promises on the migration deal, but is it not even urgent to have a review so that we can check to what extent Turkey complies with all the conditions of the deal? Fourthly, how is the pre-registration of unaccompanied minors in Belgium going? Can you give me an overview of that? You have answered most of that question just now. Fifthly, how many disturbing disappearances have been registered in Belgium? What is your plan of action on this matter? How do you intend to avoid disappearances in the future? Sixthly, how do you deal with the problem of the disappearance of unaccompanied minors in Europe? How can we, together with Europe, prevent vulnerable groups from falling into the hands of criminal gangs? Do you have a view on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u25	Mrs De Coninck, I am aware that in recent years there has been an increase in negative coping mechanisms, such as child labour, among Syrian refugees in Turkey. However, it is wrong to say that the EU has facilitated this problem by concluding the migration deal with Turkey. This problem dates back a long time before that deal was concluded. There is no direct link to any increase, if there were any. Also for the deal between the EU and Turkey there were 3 million refugees in Turkey: it is not because of the deal that they suddenly flowed there. Before the deal, there were 3 million, and it still is. I do not understand what has to do with one thing, but I am sure you will explain that to me. I would also like to point out that, within the framework of the Joint Action Plan of 29 November 2015 and the EU-Turkey deal, the EU is making significant efforts to improve the situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey. The EU Refugee Agreement provides for funding of EUR 3 billion in the first place. This will finance several projects in the fields of education, food supply, health care, such as several of UNICEF's major projects with a specific objective of providing perspective to Syrian children. Turkey has also greatly improved access to the labour market for all refugees. As regards the assessment of Turkey's commitments, I would like to point out that this is primarily the responsibility of the Greek authorities, in cooperation with the European Commission and EASO. In assessing Syrian asylum applications, the Greek Asylum Service, supported by EASO experts, is rigorous. Each asylum application shall be assessed individually, paying particular attention to a possible individual fear of the asylum seeker vis-à-vis Turkey, to any vulnerabilities of the asylum seeker and to possible family ties with persons in other EU Member States. Up to now, on the basis of such individual assessments, approximately two out of three asylum applications from Syrian asylum seekers have been declared admissible at first instance, which clearly demonstrates that Greece is careful about the application of the concept of safe third country. The number of migrants sent back to Turkey from Greece is therefore very limited at present. With my European colleagues, I continue to urge the European Commission to set up a comprehensive monitoring mechanism in Turkey in close cooperation with UNHCR. The European Commission and EASO are making important efforts. A fact finding mission in Turkey was recently carried out by EASO. In practice, Turkey offers guarantees for both returned Syrians who have effective access to temporary protection status and non-Syrians who have access to the Turkish asylum procedure. The registration of unaccompanied minors is similar to the registration for adults. They will be notified immediately to the Voogdij Service. They are then transferred to an OOC or observation and orientation centre, for example in Steenokkerzeel or Neder-over-Heembeek. The next working day they come back for an asylum application. In some cases, they may still apply for asylum on the same day. There are specific procedures for disappearances for unaccompanied minors in the reception network, as I have just reported to Mrs Thoron in French. Those procedures shall apply both at the level of the organisation of the Fedasil centres and the reception partners receiving unaccompanied minors and at the level of the supervision of an unaccompanied minor in a reception centre in the event of an effective disappearance. Those procedures aim to minimise the risk of disappearances. Firstly, the first procedure is the procedure at the level of the organisation of the centres receiving unaccompanied minors. Each reception centre has a fixed procedure in the event of a disappearance, so that a rapid and informal notification of the disappearance can be made. That procedure shall include the measures to be taken in determining the disappearance, the criteria for categorizing the disappearance as worrying or not, and the means of reporting, including a standard record for such notification. This procedure is communicated in the training of new employees. In 2015, a working group reviewed the operational measures in order to improve the application of the protocol signed by Child Focus, the DVZ, the Voogdij Service and the Brussels Police. The protocol is applied in the OOC of Steenokkerzeel and Neder-over-Heembeek. The result of the working group was an update of the vulnerability criteria and of the login time through Child Focus. Each shelter has an agreement with the local police. It includes regular consultations. This consultation facilitates cooperation, including cooperation in the event of disappearances. Secondly, the second procedure takes place at the level of supervision of unaccompanied minors in the reception centres. Any unaccompanied minor arriving on Belgian territory and being taken in a reception centre shall be registered electronically upon arrival. Such registration shall be kept in a database which may be used as a basis for the creation of a missing information sheet forwarded to the police services. The reception path provides for reception for all unaccompanied minors in an OOC upon arrival. One of the tasks of the OOC is to respect the protection measures for an unaccompanied minor necessary to avoid an alarming disappearance. These include intensive monitoring of the young person's network, where the young person has to deliver his or her mobile phone, a strict system of permission and visit, as well as the supervision of all the young person's departures and a check seven out of seven days and twenty-four out of twenty-four hours. During that observation period, it is intended to detect vulnerabilities and to take any protective measures in line with the needs of the young person, e.g. guidance on each trip and an urgent guardian's request. In the event of potential trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings, the OOC shall contact a specialised centre in order to meet reception requirements in a specialised and protected environment. Thirdly, there are procedures for effective disappearance. In the event of an alarming disappearance of an unaccompanied person, the reception centre shall immediately contact the Youth Department of the competent police. Depending on the specific situation, the police arrive on the ground and collect additional information, for example on the network of the unaccompanied. With regard to the non-accompanied persons taken into the Fedasil reception network, the Agency shall make every effort to minimise the risk of disappearances. For this purpose, specific procedures were established, both at the level of organization of the centres and at the level of guidance. There is close cooperation with Child Focus, DVZ, Voogdij, police, etc. I believe that the idea that 10 000 unaccompanied children would have ended up in prostitution or on the streets in Europe is incorrect. For example, someone comes here and suddenly leaves for his family or acquaintances in Germany. You can't guard those people 24 hours a day. This happens sometimes when there is a high risk of disappearance. For example, someone was active in a youth prostitution network. He came here and we managed to convince him to apply for asylum. If there's an addiction problem, there's a good chance that the drug problem is gone at night because he needs drugs. That is not obvious, of course. Lower-over-Heembeek and Steenokkerzeel are not far from where you can easily supply yourself. Such a person shall be closely monitored. Sometimes even the door closes so that young guy or young girl can't leave. I am convinced that a large proportion of those 10 000 will not be involved in crime. For example, they want to move on to England or want to go to family. At that moment they disappear from the radar and then it may take a while before they reappear somewhere. Of course, there are many worrying disappearances. That scared me. There were 50 alarming disappearances last year, almost one a week. What's a disturbing disappearance? For example, it is about a teenage mother, a pregnant 16-year-old girl who is very sick or someone with an addiction problem. Those are the really worrying disappearances where one wonders what will happen. In the open centres, however, there are also young people who do not like and go there. It's open centers, we can't turn them into closed centers. Suppose I turned it into a closed center, then you would ask me a question because I locked up children. In that connection, moreover, an oral question has already been tabled. These young people are therefore free to go wherever they wish. An average 16-year-old Afghan is hard to compare with an average 16-year-old Belgian, but you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u26	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think Belgium scores well on procedures for registering and following up young people. These procedures can perhaps also be promoted at European level, because it seems clear to me that the same procedure is being followed throughout Europe. However, I am concerned about the minors who are not registered anywhere and therefore are actually just walking around freely. Some of them end up in the sex industry, and I even fear that some of them are also victims of organ trafficking. I would therefore ask you to agree with your fellow Members, including your Belgian colleagues, that the police services that monitor the prostitution networks and possibly pay more attention to newcomers in these networks and to their age, but perhaps there are agreements already in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 12050 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the common thread is that questions put to the Minister of Justice are also put to the Secretary of State. This question concerns the false recognition through residence babies, a terrible word, but unfortunately a reality. The entanglement of the fight against marriages of convenience is paying off, but it also has creative, bad side effects. In the most obvious form of false recognition, a man recognizes a child who is not biologically his to help the mother and the child obtain a residence permit. There are variations on the theme, often in a grey zone, because a false recognition is also possible by the real biological father. That's more problematic. In this case, he only begets a child for the purpose of a residence permit, the latter with or without knowledge and/or consent of the mother. That is a factor that makes the issue more complex, because the victims in this matter are the child and the mother, if she is in good faith. A false recognition, especially in the latter case, is very difficult to detect. Only the outliers float above and also the evidence is very difficult and delicate. One must be able to prove that the sole motive is the residence motive. Officials of civil status and the public prosecutors currently have hardly any legal basis or means to act against them. The Minister of Justice is working on a draft law to impose criminal penalties on false recognition. There is also a letter. I think that we should focus our hopes on that, that at least there will be a reminder or an instruction from the Minister of Justice to the various prosecutors. That is something that could perhaps be discussed at government level. Mr Secretary of State, can you do something in your capacity as Secretary of State to better detect and signal false recognitions to the public prosecutor within your competence? Can the withdrawal of a residence permit be automatically linked to the destruction of a false recognition? There is still the right to family life. Do you foresee any possibility of exempting the child and the mother from a penalty if it is proven to be in good faith?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, the previous speaker has already outlined the problem: after the sham marriage and the sham living together, the problem of the false recognition of baby babies, the so-called'stay babies', is on the rise. A very poignant phenomenon, of which the small children themselves are the biggest victims. Sometimes it is both partners who are knowingly and willingly guilty of these practices. Very often, however, it is an unsuspecting mother who is left alone with her baby, she is in good faith and the father disappears with the northern sun as soon as his residence status is settled. Often it also happens in the other direction. So it happens in both directions. The East Flemish parish has recently announced a case of a man of Angolan descent who has managed to recognize 17 children in 16 different women in 17 different municipalities, all with the aim of helping foreign women to obtain papers through the recognition of children. Since 2014, in Ghent alone, dozens of dummy recognition files have been passed on to the public prosecutor. Brussels-based municipalities such as Schaerbeek have already raised the alarm because the number of suspicious recognitions is increasing enormously. The questions I would like to ask you were already addressed to Minister Geens a month ago who is working on a bill on the subject. You will forgive me if I update my six questions without repeating the questions of the previous speaker. First of all, what measures do you intend to take within your capacity as State Secretary to put an end to the problem of baby babies in order to obtain residence papers? If someone is caught there, are you thinking of a further entry ban, a withdrawal of the residence permit or something like that? With what solutions do you intend to prevent this? Secondly, do you agree that efforts should be made to tighten up the law on family reunification specifically in order to prevent such practices? I refer to the increase in the period during which people are authorised to reside indefinitely in our country before family reunification can be carried out. I would also like to have your opinion on this. Finally, have you discussed this particular problem with Minister Geens? He is working on a draft law, but of course the issue also concerns your competence. Your approach to this will certainly not be unimportant. Have you discussed this with Minister Geens or his cabinet? Do you have any idea of the timing? When can we expect a legislative initiative from the government on this matter in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in mid-March, the 19 civil registrars of the Brussels-Capital Region sent a letter to your colleague Koen Geens to draw his attention to fraudulent (pre- and post-natal) recognitions of paternity with a view to obtaining a legal residence permit. According to the association for the defense of victims of marriages of convenience and baby-papers, these sentimental scams that instrumentalize paternity are on the rise and involve, in some cases, organized networks. This was shared by the European Migration Network, which was interviewed on the issue of family reunification in the Committee on the Interior a month ago. Civil registrars are thus legally deprived in the face of the multitude of situations they have to face: couples (one of whom has no residence permit) who wish to marry to facilitate the obtaining of papers, women who arrive in Belgium already pregnant and have their child recognised by a Belgian man to obtain papers or men who do not have their papers in order and who recognise a Belgian child, with a residence permit at the key. Mr Secretary of State, how many cases of baby-papers have been officially reported in the last three years? Have the perpetrators of these scams been punished? By what means? How does the exchange of information between registrars and the Foreign Office take place? Is it mandatory and systematic? Will the Act of 15 December 1980 and the Penal Code and the Nationality Code be adapted to deal with the phenomenon of complacency pregnancy? If so, in what sense? Will we draw inspiration from what has been achieved in the context of marriages of convenience? Given the lack of reception, listening and protection of victims from possible reprisals, do you advocate the establishment of an ad hoc federal agency to receive, listen to and protect victims of pregnancy of convenience from possible reprisals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. These questions are not actually within the competence of the Foreign Affairs Office. Recognition concerns the rules on pedigree and pedigree is an exclusive competence of justice. I assume you know that. However, I have some answers. At present, civil servants do not have a specific legal basis for refusing false recognition. However, Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure obliges any official who becomes aware of a crime or malpractice in the performance of his duties to report it to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This notification has not been very successful in itself, as it is difficult for the Public Prosecutor to prosecute these infringements because there is currently no specific legislation in place. So there really is a problem. However, the public prosecutors do try to act by using the public policy provisions of Article 138a (1) of the Code of Justice in order to have false recognitions destroyed. So nothing can be done, but a specific criminality must be incorporated into the law. As you point out, I am currently working with the Minister of Justice on a draft law that restricts false recognition. Several options are considered, such as an amendment of the Criminal Code, the Civil Code and/or the Aliens Act. Family reunification is a very sensitive fraud procedure. Therefore, as far as my powers are concerned, it is being examined whether the rules on family reunification can be amended in order to prevent such abuse. With regard to shopping, a first measure has already entered into force. Since 1 January 2016, the ascendants in the first degree and the descendants are now also mentioned in the first degree in the national register, the population register and the foreign register. This gives all civil servants useful information in the fight against false recognition. In addition, the database will also have to contain bogus marriage data on false recognition, which will share the information between all civil servants. The last possible measure is to limit the territorial competence of the civil status official in respect of accreditations. The slope of applying a DNA test is also further investigated. DNA research is indeed an option to establish biological descent, but it should be noted that one should not be the biological parent to recognise a child. Neither social nor biological reality should be an absolute element in determining whether or not the lineage is established. There is always a need to make a specific assessment. A DNA test will therefore not provide conclusive evidence, especially if it is considered that there may also be false recognition in the case of a biological bond. Sometimes the father is of course also the real sire and in that way they try to get papers. The fact that there is no biological bond does not automatically mean that there is a false recognition. The aim is to be able to report the recognition of a Belgian child by a person without the right of residence and the recognition of a child without the right of residence by a Belgian child for possible further investigation. The penalty imposed is similar to that imposed on false relations. If it is established that this is a false recognition, there will be no right of residence and an entry ban will also be imposed on account of the fraud committed. The stay cannot be automatically withdrawn in the event of the destruction of an approval. The withdrawal must be justified and the fraudster may appeal against the negative decision to the Council for Aliens' Disputes. If an illegal man recognizes a Belgian child, the Belgian woman or she who is legal and the Belgian child can only be protected by criminal law. That's a jurisdiction that doesn't just belong to the Department of Foreign Affairs. They do not benefit from the right of residence, since it is a Belgian woman or a Belgian child. Mrs Caprasse, I have no statistics. Sanctions depend on justice. For the time being, there are no circulars dealing with the exchange of information. The exchange between the civil registry officers and the Agency is thus taking place informally. A first step has been taken. Thus, since 1 January 2016, first-degree ascendants and descendants at the first level in decreasing direct line are mentioned in the National Register, the population registers and in the register of foreigners. In this way, all civil registrars have all the information they need in the fight against the recognition of complacency. Currently, a bill is being developed in collaboration with the Minister of Justice. The purpose of this bill is to limit these recognitions of complacency. Various options are being explored, including amendments to the Criminal Code, the Civil Code and/or the Aliens Act of 1980. Indeed, regulation serves as a source of inspiration. At my level, my administration is examining whether the family reunification regulations can be amended to combat such abuse. Finally, your fourth question is not within my competence. What's the timing? I hope that Minister Geens and I will be able to come to Parliament in 2016 with our draft law. We're almost there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that the draft law is almost complete. Indeed, as Mrs Pas says, it was announced a few weeks ago by Minister Geens in committee. Such situations are very difficult to prosecute, but it is in the interests of our vision and perception of migration and family reunification that we restrict them. Of course, everyone is not too bad faith or will deliberately try to obtain a residence permit in this way, but the loopholes must be closed as much as possible, if only because otherwise people, like Mrs Pas, will ask for even stricter rules on family reunification. We therefore have every interest in closing all the loopholes. It is also important that every civil servant of any province, city or municipality in our country acts in the same way and knows how to act. At present, it actually depends on the alertness or willingness of a civil servant to report an irregularity or suspicious or fraudulent recognition. There is no uniformity and that is a problem that needs to be removed very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u33	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. I am pleased that you agree with me that it will be necessary to adapt to the law on family reunification in order to address this problem. There is also an urgent need for a legal basis in order to prevent residence recognition through residence babies. I understand it's a very difficult problem. Not everyone's in bad faith. The difficulty lies in detecting it. Very often, the victims only see afterwards that they have become victims. When a mother is left alone, she is often too ashamed to file a complaint. We therefore need strict legislation in this area. I'm glad it's in a final phase. I look forward to the bill. I hope that we will be able to deal with it in Parliament this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. I come back to my first question: it would be useful to look at the problem of statistics in order to have a better view of the problem, even if it is difficult, I agree. You said that there is no circular on exchanges between registrars and the Foreign Office. I agree with Mrs Smeyers: it would be useful to have more uniformity, so that the registrars all move in the same direction. Your work with Minister Geens to review the Penal Code and the law of 15 December is a positive development. We will be very attentive and will rest on some questions. I come back to the subject of a federal reception non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence non-competence. This victim defense ASBL is trying to contact you, to have an appointment with you. It would be nice to send them back to Minister Geens. It is important to listen to such associations ready to work with your departments, and to find a way to work with them in the future. It is the ASBL Defense of victims of marriages of convenience and baby-papers, which is located in Anderlecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, my question dates from a while ago and it may be that some elements in the question are no longer up-to-date. As part of the distribution plan for asylum seekers, the city of Blankenberge was asked to provide 25 reception places. To this end, the city has rented the vacant New Kennedy Hotel for a period of three years at an annual cost of 190 000 euros. As the distribution plan has not yet been activated, the city does not yet receive compensation from Fedasil for renting these shelters. I have six questions. Firstly, you said that you would compensate the municipalities that would be charged for the cost of the lack of the distribution plan. Will you do the same in that case? Secondly, how is it that Blankenberge immediately made a commitment for three years? Thirdly, are there any such cases where municipalities have committed themselves to a high or long-term financial commitment? Fourthly, was there Fedasil's supervision to check the reasonableness of commitments made by municipalities? Fifthly, is it true that asylum seekers may never be placed in Blankenberge? The 25 requested places have already been reduced to 14. Finally, is it a piste to host unaccompanied underage asylum seekers in the hotel in question or to use the places for any other reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u36	Mr De Vriendt, as far as Fedasil is concerned, I can say the following. Blankenberge has proposed an old hotel as a location for 25 asylum seekers. A place visit was made on April 20th. It was then established that the property can accommodate up to 12 to 14 single adults. Some rooms are only 8 square meters and that is too far away from our reception standards. Blankenberge's OCMW has withdrawn the offer to turn it into a LOI. So the deal with the hotel is off. Meanwhile, the offer has been withdrawn completely and it is no longer something Fedasil or my services are aware of. So that file's off the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u37	Thank you for your answer. I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u38	Mrs Gabriels couldn't be here this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, one of the arguments that Europe and this government are calling upon to agree to the refugee deal with Turkey is that Turkey would have done more to improve access to the asylum procedure there. Theoretically and legally, there may indeed be access to a procedure, there has been improvement and a number of measures have been taken, but an article in the MO magazine shows that in some cases asylum seekers have to wait until seven years for a first interview. For example, there is a case known of someone who was invited to register in 2023. In the meantime, these people are not protected and left to their fate by the Turkish state. In practice, therefore, the bureaucratic walls that have been erected appear to have changed nothing. In addition, it seems that Turkey is trying to get its own attention from the refugee crisis. Of the only 177 Syrians re-established under the EU-Turkey deal on 18 May, there were barely any higher educated. It seems that the Turks mainly want to get rid of the serious medical cases and the lower-educated Syrians. In the meantime, Erdogan is not shrinking in terms of the conditions for obtaining visa waivers. What is your response to these reports from Turkey on the inaccessibility of the asylum procedure and the selectivity of resettlement? Do you agree that there is still no asylum procedure worthy of the name in Turkey and that the rights of asylum seekers and refugees are still being violated? The chances remain that the deal with Erdogan will fall apart. What does the EU intend to do in this case? Is the EU prepared to absorb large numbers of people on the Greek islands this time? What are the latest figures on this deal? How many asylum seekers were repatriated to Turkey? What nationalities were involved? How many Syrians have been re-established in the meantime? How many of these in Belgium? How many refugees are still in the procedure in Greece? What is your latest assessment of the situation in the hotspots and how are the working conditions there today for foreign experts, including Belgian experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a similar question. The migration deal between Turkey and Europe was clear: for every migrant who takes back Turkey, a Syrian refugee is sent to Europe in return. In return, Turkey received a considerable amount of money. You just mentioned the amount, Mr Secretary of State. Now it is true that Turkey only lets those Syrians leave for Europe who are low-skilled and often also have medical problems. But maybe the medical sector here is very good. The Dutch Ministry of Justice confirmed this in the newspaper Het Algemeen Dagblad. A number of files already approved in the Netherlands were blocked by the Turks. They were always highly-educated Syrians. Your cabinet also recently confirmed that Turkey is refusing exit permits to highly educated Syrians. This month the Belgian selection delegation leaves for Turkey. With the facts in mind, I wonder which selection criteria will be used. I come to my questions. What does the so-called selection delegation consist of? What selection criteria will it base itself on? Will it take account of a balance between the profiles? If so, how will it do this? I am not in favour of only highly skilled people, but I am in favour of a balance. Are you prepared for the possible refusal of exit permits for highly educated Syrians, as happened in the Netherlands? What measures will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u41	First of all, I would like to say that the regime with Turkey is being respected with strict respect for the principle of non-refoulement and the requirements of EU law and international law. In order to ensure full compliance with EU law and international law, both Greece and Turkey have made a number of legal changes. Turkey has committed itself to reducing the backlog of some 140 000 asylum applications while ensuring that decisions on the new asylum applications under examination are recorded within a reasonable period of time and taken within the legal deadline. This commitment is, of course, subject to detailed scrutiny by the European Commission, which reports to the Council. The implementation of the EU-Turkey arrangement is taking place very quickly. It is therefore normal that the Turkish authorities, assisted by the EU, still have to make efforts. As regards resettlement, it is true that DGMM has refused to issue departure permits to Syrians with a higher education degree. This information was known to the Working Group Resolution . It is currently being followed up and is likely to be the subject of discussions with the Turkish authorities. However, according to the negotiated procedure, Turkey had promised to count the vulnerable groups and take care of them as they could be re-established in the EU. It is therefore not surprising that the candidates for resettlement are those who are considered vulnerable: families with children, the elderly, etc. Nevertheless, Belgium, together with other European countries, has expressed its dissatisfaction with this unilateral Turkish decision. Turkey has adopted a law providing that Turkish-Syrian nationals who have been returned under the new scheme may apply for and obtain temporary protection. That protection covers both those of them who were previously registered in Turkey and those who were not. In addition to these legislative changes, Turkey has given assurances that all returned Syrians will benefit from temporary protection upon their return. The labour market has also been open to refugees under certain conditions, since 15 January 2016. There is no nationality condition. We are aware that Turkey still has a long way to go, but the European funds deposited under the Turkey Refugee Facility will also enable Turkey to organise important projects to improve reception conditions and access to health care and education. We can add that Belgium has supported the EU-Turkey declaration and has always paid special attention to Turkey's compliance with international conventions and fundamental rights. Although there are still shortcomings, Turkey has made considerable progress on the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and refugees in the implementation of the declaration, which is positive. The EU-Turkey declaration is beginning to deliver results. The sharp decline in the number of illegal migrants and asylum seekers reaching Greece from Turkey proves not only that this declaration is effective, but also that the economic model of smugglers can be broken. Successful implementation of the declaration in practice is a strong signal for migrants. It makes it clear to them that getting on a boat in Turkey and putting lives at risk during the crossing is not the right way to enter Europe, because there is a legal and safe way, namely that of resettlement. As long as the parties respect their commitment and continue to improve the implementation of the declaration in practice, there is no reason why the deal would fall into the water. Moreover, the reception capacity in Greece has been significantly increased and should continue to increase, which should enable them to manage the massive influx in a much better organised manner if necessary. It is clear that efforts still need to be made to increase the Greek capacity to deal with asylum applications, but we can also say that a huge part of the road has been taken in a year. For our part, we remain prepared to make our staff and expertise on asylum, reception and return available to our Greek colleagues. I now give more information on the situation in Greece and Turkey, in particular on the number of returns to Turkey from Greece. In the period from 4 April to 10 July, 468 migrants were sent back to Turkey from Greece. Among them were 31 Syrians, and the rest were mainly Pakistanis and Afghans and smaller numbers from Bangladesh, Iraq, Iran, Congo, Somalia and Côte d'Ivoire. Resettlement of Syrians in Turkey, according to the one-on-one scheme: in the same period 802 Syrian refugees were resettled from Turkey to the EU. Many resettlement operations, including those of Belgium, are in the pipeline. It is clear that, under the one-to-one principle, the EU has gained a clear lead with the resettlement of 802 Syrian refugees from Turkey, while only 31 Syrians were sent back from Greece to Turkey. The one-to-one principle at present is rather a one-to- thirty principle. The EU has thus already gained a clear lead. After all, 21 Syrians were sent back to Turkey, while at the same time 802 were repatriated from Turkey. As part of the resettlement programme, I decided that 250 Syrian refugees will be resettled in Belgium from Turkey in 2016. A first selection mission for about 100 people has already been completed. They will be able to be transferred to Belgium in the coming months. Meanwhile, preparations are already being made for a second selection mission to Turkey. I come to the number of asylum seekers in Greece, the situation on the ground. At present there are about 8 500 refugees on the Greek islands and about 53 000 refugees on the Greek mainland. In the meantime, the vast majority of migrant refugees on the islands are seeking asylum. For stranded migrants on the mainland, the Greek authorities are pre-registration so that migrants can be referred to the appropriate procedure as soon as possible: Dublin, relocation, asylum in Greece, return... In all this, it should be noted that the Greek authorities have difficulties in registering asylum applications. Aid was offered by EASO and the EU Member States, but Greece should also provide sufficient capacity for this. In 2016, until the end of May, Greece received more than 13 000 asylum applications, officially registered. In reality, the figure is much higher, including those still unregistered. For the time being, I have opened up 200 places for relocation from Greece. The first 19 people have arrived. What's the situation on the hotspots? Currently there are still several Belgian experts from DVZ, Fedasil and the CGVS on the Greek islands. The situation on Lesbos is better than on Chios or Samos, but there remains an overpopulation and further efforts need to be made to improve living conditions in the shelter. Security incidents have indeed occurred. That is why I have once again called for the security situation, especially in Chios and Samos, to be examined by a security expert and, on this basis, to draw up an action plan. That's what we've been through several times. I continue to address my Greek colleague and the people of EASO very often. You should know that Belgium accounts for 15% of the international staff in Greece. I do not think we represent 15% of the European population. I know that it is often said from the opposition that it is all far too little. Belgium provides 15% of international employees to help the Greeks. We continue to do the same thing, which the Greeks greatly appreciate. The Greeks know that, too. I see the Greek minister now almost every two weeks. He is well aware that they can count on us in terms of relocation and in terms of assistance for asylum applications, the hotspots and the organisation of the entire asylum system, which is an immense challenge for them. After all, Greece is a country that has many challenges and is in a difficult situation. Now there is the whole asylum crisis, which is not obvious. They know, however, that they can count on us. We do a lot for that. I have always stated that there had to be a solution with Turkey before that border. Greece must not just send them all to Western Europe. However, as soon as the number of asylum applications in Brussels falls, I will accept my responsibility. Belgium does so more than any other European country. So I keep my word. You are talking about the relocation of 200 asylum seekers and you think it should be more. Let us begin by getting these 200 people here first. I have pointed out several times that it is not a question of unwillingness. It just takes a terrible long time before these people are effectively flown here from Greece. It's not my administration. The delay is not with us. Greece also recruits a lot of staff. All that must still fall on his feet. Greece also has a certain culture and administration, which is not the same as here. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is very good that Belgium is making an effort to send staff to Greece. However, we can also begin to implement our promises of resettlement here of refugees directly from the refugee camps. It concerns the most vulnerable people. The promises haven't been made in a few years in a row. The relocation in Belgium of people trapped in Griekeland, as agreed at European level, has still not been achieved. I have the impression that the Belgian Government is going to sleep because of all of Erdogan's beautiful promises. To be honest, it's unbelievable to take that man's word for it. The promises to improve asylum legislation in Turkey are contradicted by almost daily testimonies on the ground. So we cannot and cannot remain blind to the fact that there are no rights for asylum seekers in Turkey, as we know them, which are guaranteed and good in accordance with our standards and standards. That is clearly not the case in Turkey. Nevertheless, we are sending people back there. Worse still, you're talking about non-refoulement. Well, Turkey does not hesitate to put Syrian refugees back across the border with Syria. I have asked this question several times here in this House, to you and to your colleague Didier Reynders. I'll never get an answer. They slide that under the mat. If good protection for war refugees, men, women and children fleeing war violence means that they are sent back to Syria across the border, and if we do business with such a country, then I think we are far removed from respect, from our values and from solidarity. I hope that we are not too lax on Turkey when it comes to the visa waiver, because Erdogan is tightening anti-terrorism legislation in such a way that it is beginning to hit the normal opposition in Turkey. I'm afraid I know what's coming. Turkey will say that it meets the conditions and then it will be up to Europe and the European Member States, including Belgium, to assess whether or not that is the case. I hope that we will be strong and rigorous in the assessment of the measures in Turkey and that we will not give in to the Turkish pressure, not even to the pressure of any of Erdogan's allies in the European Union, so that we can quickly conclude that Turkey is fine with everything. I hope to be able to count on your support for this. We will need a Belgian government which remains firmly in line with this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u43	I am glad that Belgium is so strongly assisting the Greek administration in the selection process. I also hope that in the long term the Greek administration will resolve the problem itself. On the basis of your communication, I assume that resistance has been reduced towards those foreign officials from other countries who had to support the Greek office and at the time also the Italian agency. It should all be a bit faster and more efficient. I can agree with that, because in the end I do not think that it is so ambitious to resettle 200 to 250 people here. I did not get an answer to my question about the criteria, high-skilled versus low-skilled, but I hope that it will become clear in the future and that any agreement will be reached. As far as Turkey is concerned, I agree with Mr De Vriendt's comments on the vigilance we need to show towards Turkey, the deal with Turkey and its implementation and respect for international conventions and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u44	Mrs. De Coninck, on the basis of instructions from the Secretary of State, has asked to propose vulnerable families with children in the first place. A balanced presentation was also requested, for example by reducing the number of cases of major medical distress. Let us say that it is not always easy with Turkey. Also, within the case load received by UNHCR from the Turkish Migration Service, Syrians with family ties in Belgium were asked to give priority. UNHCR has met our questions as far as possible. Approximately 25% of the files concern persons with special, usually medical emergencies. The proposed dossiers are mainly made up of large families. Families with family ties were unfortunately not identified by UNHCR. The conditions for a balanced presentation have been met. In principle, anyone for whom there are no objections regarding exclusion, national security or public order will be eligible for resettlement to Belgium. We're currently being screened by our security services. That looks pretty good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State has informed me that he has to leave a little after 12:00. After the interplay the merged questions will be dealt with. I believe that we can still deal with the questions put together by Mr Delannois and Mr Caprasse. However, it will no longer be possible to discuss the combined questions of fellow members De Coninck, Matz, Kir and Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in his Communication of 16 May 2007 on circular migration and mobility partnerships between the European Union (EU) and third countries, the European Commission proposes a fairly broad definition of circular migration as a form of managed migration so as to allow a certain degree of lawful mobility in both directions between two countries. Thus, we have two main forms of circular migration most suited to the European context. The first is the circular migration of third-country nationals established in the EU. This category of circular migration offers people the opportunity to engage in an activity – business, professional, voluntary – in their country of origin while retaining their principal residence in one of the Member States. The second form is the circular migration of persons residing in a third country; in this case, circular migration provides persons residing in a third country with the opportunity to travel temporarily to the EU to work, study, receive training, provided that they return to their principal residence and main activity in the country of origin at the end of the period for which they were admitted. The circular can be strengthened by allowing migrants, after their return, to retain a privileged form of mobility from and to the Member State where they previously resided through simplified admission and pre-admission procedures. In summary, the basic principle of circular migration is that it should benefit the countries of origin, through a return of skills, the host country by defining lists of trades that make it possible to overcome difficulties in the recruitment of enterprises in certain sectors and migrants by means of legal residence, social security, training, savings, assistance in setting up or returning to the country of origin. Based on all these findings, Mr. Franken, my questions are as follows. What is Belgium's position on circular migration? What initiatives are being taken or planned for the future, bearing in mind that, through circular migration, it is envisaged that foreigners will be able to gain significant professional experience in our country, which they will subsequently be able to use after their return to their country for the development of that country? The government will consult with the Region to consider the extent to which this circular migration can be sustained. In advance, I thank you for your answers. Secretary of State, I have tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u47	Honourable Member, the government agreement states, in point 7.5, that the Belgian Government will continue to work towards the harmonisation of asylum and migration policy at EU level and the effective transposition of all directives by all EU Member States. Circular migration allows foreigners to come to our country with important work experience, which they can then use for the development of their country of origin when they return. I reiterate my commitment to a circular migration. You are aware that, following the sixth reform of the State, circular migration, like other forms of migration, also concerns federated entities. We will therefore consult with all levels of government involved in circular migration with a view to its implementation. We have had a series of meetings with field actors such as Caritas, Sweden, where circular migration seems to have been successful, as we also wanted to draw on good practices abroad. We will now begin consultations with other institutional actors, both at the vertical level (federal entities) and at the horizontal level (the relevant ministries) for the implementation of this commitment. To this end, a meeting between my cabinet and the Flemish government is planned in the following weeks, and the other federated entities will also be contacted. For the government, circular migration must absolutely obey the principles of triple win: a win for the migrant individual, a win for the host country and a win for the country of origin. And for that, a good circular migration policy goes hand in hand with a good return policy. As circular migration is one of the possibilities to combat illegal migration, it is necessary to ensure that the migrant returns to his country of origin after his stay in Belgium, in order to bring to his country of origin the experience and knowledge acquired in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard that you are going to consult with the other actors. I'll be back at the beginning of the year, on the basis of the progress that I hope you will make in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u49	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government to initiate a pilot project on circular migration, allowing foreign nationals to come to Belgium for a short period of time in order to acquire qualifications before returning to their country of origin and to benefit their community on the spot. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, asks the government set up a pilot project on circular migration, allowing foreign nationals to come to our country for a short period of time to obtain qualifications, then return to their country of origin, where the knowledge acquired benefits the community on the ground. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u50	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in December of last year the various communes of the Kingdom were asked to welcome refugees arriving from countries at war through a distribution plan. Finally, this measure was good news for migrants who will find themselves in smaller groups and thus benefit from more personalized and adequate assistance in preparing for their integration. I advocated this measure from the beginning of the migration crisis that our country experienced in August 2015. As the saying goes: "Better late than never"! Except that, visibly, in this case, the "late" can be replaced by "even later". Indeed, your appeal to the communes, so that they can arrange for the new arrivals, has been well heard by the latter. On the other hand, it's been radio silence since then. In my region, in Picardy Wallonia, municipalities have, for months, invested in new infrastructure to accommodate refugees, under penalty of financial sanctions. For example, the cities of Ath and Comines-Warneton have invested in new housing ILA (local host initiative), bought new equipment, hired staff, thought about organizing French courses, etc. At a time when your government is asking the municipalities and the CPAS to do more with less resources, I regret that the investments made by the municipalities to receive migrants are not being used, at the moment, for nothing. Mr Secretary of State, following the Restricted Council on Friday, 3 June, the announcement was made to block the activation of the distribution plan for the time being. Why is that so? If it is true that at present there is a decrease in the number of arrivals in our country, why not cut down on our centres, which are sometimes over-filled, and provide refugees with some ILAs in the various municipalities in the country that have prepared themselves for them? Finally, could you give me details of the sanctions imposed on municipalities that have not met your requirements in terms of receiving refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u51	Mr President, Secretary of State, the CPAS are worried about the investments made to respond to your plan for the distribution of refugees, announced in December and finally postponed following the decrease in the influx of refugee candidates, decided in the Council of Ministers on 3 June. This decision follows that of the Council of Ministers restricted on 27 May, according to which CPAS should be encouraged not to open some or all places for which there has been a commitment, otherwise they should be closed. This is a little ambiguous. Mr Secretary of State, this decision is really problematic in two ways. First of all, it lacks respect for the communal administrations which participated in this distribution plan, and which now find themselves with these reception places on their arms. In addition, I would like to ask you for the utmost caution to ensure that we are not overtaken again by events whose consequences we absolutely cannot anticipate. The arrival of the summer, the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and the untenable nature of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey are factors that must prompt you to act in this direction and therefore to maintain sufficient places in reserve. Mr Secretary of State, could you please let me know whether the reduction in reception places will be accompanied by a strengthening of the buffer capacity? Are the Regions involved in this reflection? Then you announced in plenary session on 26 May that the initial two-month reception period could be extended to four months. Does this also apply to the new hosting model? Finally, what solutions do you propose to the municipalities to fill unoccupied reception places and to make them profitable while ensuring that they are re-mobilizable if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a very sharp decrease in arrivals in recent months. Indeed, the influx of asylum seekers has reached a historically low level, resulting in a reduction in the occupancy rate of reception facilities, which is now 81%. Currently, several thousand places are unoccupied. There is therefore a need for a reduction in reception capacity. Under these conditions, there is no need to open other reception places by activation of the distribution plan. Of course, we will honour the efforts made by the local authorities following the announcement of this distribution plan in December 2015, in accordance with the new hosting model. We will fill empty ILA seats to the maximum depending on this one. ILAs are reserved as a priority for beneficiaries of reception who have the right or are likely to remain in Belgium, in order to facilitate their transition to integration. Fedasil will therefore designate asylum seekers from high-protection countries, such as Syria, as well as those who have obtained protection status. This body has also abolished emergency places. Thus, some of the asylum-seekers were transferred to the ALA according to the state of their proceedings, the protection rate of their country of origin and their individual needs. As the allocation plan has not been activated, no sanction is naturally foreseen. Mrs Caprasse, the reduction in reception capacity will be accompanied by a considerable strengthening of the buffer capacity. It will increase to 7,500 places, three times as much as the pre-crisis situation. The reduction will be organised in such a way as to be able to respond quickly and effectively to a possible increase in arrivals in the future. To rule is to anticipate. As regards consultation with the Regions, the development of the reception system for asylum seekers under federal jurisdiction, no special involvement is foreseen for the Regions. If necessary and operationally, Fedasil shall contact the relevant regional officials. It works very well. Under the new reception model, applicants who have been able to obtain protection status will be referred to an individual reception place in ILA in order to facilitate what is known as the transition, i.e. the transitional period within a reception structure between material assistance and financial assistance from a CPAS. This period is two months, with the possibility of requesting a maximum extension of two times a month under certain conditions. In the case of unoccupied spaces, as provided for in the agreements between CPAS and Fedasil, a subsidy at a reduced rate shall be maintained for the time necessary to offer this reception place to a beneficiary. In addition, CPAS have the possibility to suspend their places in order to use them as social housing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u53	Secretary of State, I understand that no sanction is foreseen since the plan has not been put in place. In fact, those who have not responded or dragged will be somewhat privileged, unlike those who responded directly to your first request. As far as the specific situation in Tournai is concerned, putting a lot of people – more than 800 at some point – in a barracks is not the best way to succeed in integration. Maybe we could have taken advantage of that bounty to diversify. Indeed, racism is less evident when you place a small family in a small entity. That's what I've always wanted to say all along. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers that satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, now it depends on you whether we can put together the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the press of 3 June 2016 echoed the adoption by the Ministerial Committee of the closure of 10,000 reception places for asylum seekers. The government shuts down 30 6,500-seat centres and the capacity of other centres is reduced. However, in order to cope with a possible new influx of migrants, the government has provided for a "matelas" of 7,500 places and has decided not to activate, for the moment, the plan for the distribution of asylum seekers in the housing provided by the municipalities. According to ICRÉ (Coordination and Initiatives for Refugees and Foreigners): "While it is true that asylum seekers have been arriving in Belgium for less than four months, it should be remembered that the situation was the same a year ago: arrivals in decline at the beginning of 2015 and a plan to close the reception places. Then, a sudden increase in arrivals as early as the summer that had not been anticipated. This has required the creation of often costly and inappropriate emergency places." Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of closed places? Are these public reception places dependent on the Fedasil network? Or are these private places, open as part of the calls for tenders that you launched following last year's reception crisis? How are they distributed? What were the elements that guided you in choosing the closure of these places in particular? To the extent that the momentary decline in the number of applications submitted in Belgium echoes that recorded before last September's influx, what elements do you have, in view of the international situation, to say that these places will no longer be useful in a relatively short period of time? Finally, I understand that this is the closure of reception places, but that the pre-reception is maintained at least in part. However, this system had been introduced only in the context of the inability of the Office of Foreigners to register all applications and to allocate applicants to the various reception centres as they were registered. If places are free and even considered supernumerary in the host network, should it not be concluded that applicants could be registered and dispatched without reconvocation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, my question is very similar. I shall therefore be brief. You have decided to close 30 reception centres, which amounts to 10 000 reception points. What phase-out is planned for next year? In your press release you gave details of the centers that need to close, accounting for 6 500 places. Do you also have more details about the other reception centres for at least 3 500 shelters to be closed down? What criteria are used for the phasing-out plan? You mention a number of them in your press release. However, I understand from sources that the places of refugee work and CIRE are mainly being phased out. I would like to have some more explanation about that. Does Belgium absorb more refugees through the European resettlement programme, while there is a greater free reception capacity? Is there a federal approach to regional and local authorities to see how the current reception network can be deployed in other ways, such as housing for recognised refugees? Where do the 7 500 buffer places come from? Are you talking about collective or individual care? Who's gonna take advantage of that? What commitments will still be implemented? Both the Red Cross and the VVSG talk about a new center, which will soon be opened in Leuven. How is that consistent with the closure of the other places?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u58	Mr President, I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said. However, I would like to address a particular aspect. Indeed, the 10,000 reception places for asylum seekers that you have decided to close are managed by the NGO partners of Fedasil for 17 years, such as ICRÉ or Vluchtelingwerk Vlaanderen. The reception model of these NGOs has, however, proven its effectiveness in integrating asylum seekers, while being less costly than collective reception. It is therefore logical that the collective reception places opened in emergency should be the first to be abolished. However, you have also decided to close the places run by NGOs. Mr Secretary of State, why have you closed the places run by these NGOs for 17 years? For what reasons has there been no consultation with the NGOs? The NGO reception model also consisted of legal aid, medical, school and social support to facilitate the integration of asylum seekers. What about the collective reception model that you advocate in your general policy? What is the cost of collective reception in the centres run by Fedasil, in the places run by NGOs such as ICRÉ, Vluchtelingwerk Vlaanderen and the Red Cross and finally in the private centres? Could you give me the average price per reception space/day so that I can make a comparison? How many layoffs will be required? Finally, we are talking about the opening of a centre in Leuven. Do you confirm this information? If so, why open this centre and who will manage it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kir, the status of these places is different. Indeed, the reception capacity will be reduced both at the level of Fedasil and at the level of the host partners and private operators. Fedasil's priority will be to reduce the quality of reception spaces. Higher-cost reception facilities will be more affected by this reduction than those with a lower cost. Host structures for which actual contracts expire will also be taken into account and will be the first to be reduced. The reception network will be smaller, but it will become more flexible. The number of buffer places will thus be tripled in comparison to the pre-crisis situation. Fedasil will be able to respond effectively to different scenarios. The last few months have shown that pre-reception can be organized in an effective way. The system designed has proven its value and will be integrated into the current framework. Mrs De Coninck, on which centre will close when, a proposal has been made. That was approved by the government last week or two weeks ago. Among the shelters to be built are 1 756 emergency shelters, which have already been completed. The rest of the shelters have already been laid down, but since my staff were in the meeting with the Prime Minister's cabinet this morning, they have no longer been able to update the answer that I now have at my disposal; for which I apologise. In short, the concrete phasing-out scenario has been decided and also communicated to the partners in recent days. Fedasil always strives to maintain a good balance between collective and individual reception places. The dismantling of collective capacity means that individual sites are also being phased out. Belgium is already putting maximum effort on resettlement. In total, Belgium has committed a total of 1 100 resettlements for 2016-2017, 178 of which have already been realised. Municipalities wishing to do so can transform their free LOI places so that they can be rented out on the social housing market. The municipalities should only inform Fedasil so that it can suspend the places concerned. The precise distribution and operation of the buffer sites will be recorded in the coming weeks. These are basically buffer areas for collective care. During the crisis, KU Leuven made an effort to make a building available to Fedasil. The necessary works and investments have been made for this purpose. The building has infrastructure suitable for the reception of specific target groups, which represents an absolute added value for the reception network, including within the framework of decommissioning. Whoever will run the center has not yet been decided. It's about specific medical places we need. Even if we close places, we don't have too many medical places. The opening of the shelter in Leuven is also a good thing, because there is just a very large, strong medical cluster. With both the university and the university hospital, that is an opportunity, which we have seized. There was already a lot of investment there, and in that sense the government's decision is very logical. Mr Van Hees, in order to maintain a good balance between collective and individual reception capacities, the reduction of collective reception capacity automatically implies that of individual reception places. The aim is to ensure that municipalities and OCMWFs are the reception partners for the regular sites and that NGOs take care of the target areas. Everyone thus retains their field of expertise and contributes to the harmonisation of the network. There has always been consultation with the NGOs concerned on the subject of the reduction of reception places and the various components of material assistance. This is, of course, a political decision. The construction plan was a political decision of the core. The phasing-out plan is, of course, the same. The various components of material assistance are determined by the Host Law of 12 January 2007. We will find them, therefore, in all the reception structures of Fedasil and its partners, whether collective or individual. Only the day-to-day implementation arrangements may differ. As for your request for the daily cost, please send it in writing. Fedasil does not have a total overview of the amount and people. As far as the city of Leuven is concerned, I gave the answer to Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u60	I had tabled this question at some point, but since then, the news has evolved and other decisions have been made at the initiative of the government, on the basis of your proposals. I will return to the beginning of the year, Mr Franken, with an important inquiry to take stock of the year since the crisis, with the increase in the number of refugees. I was able to learn from the press about the MIRA leader, who gave his point of view and shared his analysis of the evolution. This will be an opportunity to revisit what has been the focus of your policy. The street has also been home to many refugees. It was also one of Mr. Franken's trademarks. Maximilian Park welcomed refugees, and it was not the government that hosted them. We have also known these realities. We will also come back to an issue that is important to us, namely the closure of structural places. When you close 500 seats, and this is the first time in 17 years, you pose a major act. All of these issues deserve a real debate and I will come back to them at the beginning of the year, with my colleagues, through a broader inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the partners, as you say you've communicated with them about what's left and what's not. I can well imagine that Leuven has taken a number of initiatives and that with the challenges we face, such as the resettlement of people with medical problems, that capacity is indeed needed. Leuven is so hospitable to free up that capacity. For the sake of clarity, there are also a lot of medical knowledge and medical structures in Antwerp. I just don't know if they'll be equally welcome there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic474x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, you are talking about consultation with NGOs. Let me be skeptical! The representatives of these NGOs told us that they had learned this information in the press. She would therefore have been warned before the NGOs. I don't know if that's your definition of consultation, but it's particular. As far as cost is concerned, we will introduce a written question on the subject. It is interesting to note that these NGOs have lower costs than collective reception. Your decision is all the more surprising. However, I believe that both cost and quality should be discussed here. In 17 years, ICRÉ has not found any fighting among the people it has welcomed. It is still very different from the situation in collective reception. This decision, however, is not so surprising when you read the book you co-signed with Mrs Smeyers, who has just left the meeting, entitled Land zonder grens. You made it very clear that there was a need for clean-up among these lawyers, in these NGOs. You were even talking about putting an end to their dictatorship. Very clearly, you have undertaken a political fight against these NGOs. The situation, the conclusion, the consequences are that quality places that existed at a lower cost are removed. It's really a very serious decision.
