ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u1	Minister, the SNCB announced in early October the figures for its rolling stock for 2015, including the proportion of rolling stock that is immobilized in maintenance workshops. It shows that the average age of this equipment is more than 30% higher than the European average and that it is permanently immobilized for maintenance up to 17.4%. This rate has already fallen sharply between 2015 and 2014, which is excellent news. However, the performance of SNCB in terms of service and punctuality is still high and, of course, disabled. Can you compare this figure of 17.4% with the results of other European rail operators? Does the old material alone explain this difference? Will the investment in new equipment already made and to come allow us to reach the European average in terms of the average age of the equipment and at what time? Is the performance of SNCB's workshops also a factor explaining this rate of immobilization? Is it measured and can you compare it to the performance of other European carriers? Recent steps have been taken in the working arrangements of some workshops. Has the expected productivity gain been evaluated? Will further action be taken on the operation of the SNCB workshops?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u2	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it is difficult to compare the rate of immobilization of rolling stock between the various railway operators, as there is no agreed standard on the method of calculation. The immobilization rate of a vehicle can therefore be expressed in various ways. In Belgium, rail traffic is mainly regulated on peak hour traffic to Brussels. SNCB uses figures that record the number of vehicles immobilized during the morning rush hour. Modernization programmes also play a role, as they involve the temporary unavailability of much of the equipment. The age of equipment influences the availability of rolling stock. In addition to the wear and tear of older equipment, other factors also play a major role, such as the large number of different vehicle types and the youth diseases of the new equipment. SNCB states that with strict monitoring, it has significantly improved the availability of Desiro and T18 locomotives. I can give you a number. I know that the failure rate of SNCB's equipment is on average 38 failures per million kilometres. For the Desiros, in the last year, it was 10 failures per million kilometres. You see that there is a significant decrease in age, but also in type of maintenance, which is called predictive maintenance. Currently, the workshops work mainly in simple teams and in daytime service. By planning multiple teams, SNCB intends to shorten the duration of the intervention and thereby increase the availability of its equipment at peak hours. Although the last benchmark was also intended to obtain a view of the organisation of the interview, in particular in terms of duration of intervention, share of unplanned interviews, etc., the participating networks chose not to provide any information on this subject. There are also other measures which must lead to greater availability of rolling stock, but also to greater reliability and productivity, such as improving working methods in both line and central workshops, training of staff, improvement measures for the cleaning of rolling stock, better planning of maintenance work – including predictive maintenance – and the construction of new workshops and the acquisition of more efficient facilities. If you have the opportunity to visit the workshops where equipment is maintained, I invite you to visit the most recent one before visiting the oldest one. You will immediately understand that with the same staff, the facilities for access to equipment with new workshops, ergonomics, quality and working environment, of course, encourage more equipment to be maintained in these new workshops.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u3	Chairman: Karine Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u4	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers, which allow us to better understand the issues and the different exciting perspectives for improving the availability of materials. Since the president has joined us, I will certainly make a suggestion to her. We had the opportunity to visit last year's Infrabel workshops. It would be interesting to visit SNCB's workshops today. When we organise our work, I will therefore propose that we go there on a Friday in order not to harm the work of the committee. In any case, it would be important for us to be able to see the situation on the spot and to visit yesterday's workshop and tomorrow's workshop, in order to see how staff can develop their skills through efficient equipment for the benefit of rail customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u5	The proposal is accepted, Mr. Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u6	I don't need to reintroduce it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u7	No! It can be placed on the agenda on a Tuesday or Wednesday. We do not have Members on Monday or Friday. We thus mobilize a lot of people for few visitors. Mrs De Coninck totally agrees with me. Often, there are very few of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u8	Minister, I am pleased to ask you this question today. If I had done it yesterday, I would have had a few small problems! I took the train at 09:09 and arrived in Brussels at 11:45. I have therefore not been able to participate in the committee planned with my dear Mrs Marghem. Then I wondered if it wasn't a Bellot hit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u9	Mr. Delannois, I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u10	You reassure me, but I assure you, that was not my question. Minister, the Tournai station is an important and strategic crossing point for users travelling, in particular, within a cross-border area including Lille, Tournai and Courtrai. In addition, many workers, students and tourists use this station to use the Tournai-Liège or Tournai-Brussels lines. In short, the flow of people passing through Tournai train station every day is important, especially during peak hours. It is de facto essential that the human and logistical means mobilised to ensure effective security of the premises are effective, especially since we are still at level 3 of a terrorist threat. Regrettably, I see that the security services are increasingly underprivileged. In fact, there are too few Securail officers to carry out effective patrols, while railway police officers are no longer present in Tournai - the antenna is now located in Mons. Minister, will agents from Securail be hired in the Hainaut, especially for the station of Tournai, in order to carry out more rounds in more numbers? Will the railway police again be present at the station of Tournai to effectively cover the area from the latter to Mouscron? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u11	Mr Delannois, the SNCB informs me that safety at the station in Tournai remains of course a priority, as in all the other stations. With regard to the staff of Securail, the current framework is eight staff members, whose services take place from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. with two security officers. You were right to indicate that departures have taken place. As a result of retirements and transfers, the Sécurail de Tournai brigade has been reduced to five officers in recent months. However, one officer was transferred on 1 October 2016 and two others came to strengthen the Tournai Brigade on 1 November 2016. This will ensure that the workforce is fully staffed again. As far as the railways police are concerned, I would ask you to ask the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u12	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Note that when I tabled my question a few weeks ago, all this was not relevant yet. It would indeed be good to ensure that the eight officers are still present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u13	Madam President, Minister, Pairi Daiza Park is attracting more and more visitors every year. In 2015, more than 1,767,000 people visited the animal park, making it one of the most visited sites in Belgium. It is therefore essential that, at SNCB level, an adequate transport offer be established and that the service to Pairi Daiza be improved. It is abnormal that on weekends there is only one train available every odd hour from Ath to Mons with a stop at Cambron. Travellers from Brussels or the Tournai-Mouscron region are therefore simply injured. In a society where sustainable transport is being tried to develop, and especially public transport, it is quite foolish that the number of trains travelling to the country's major tourist sites should not be increased. If, during the summer months, SNCB is able to find the resources necessary to ensure the entry into service of many trains towards the Belgian side and major cities such as Bruges, it should also be possible for a larger transport offer to be offered to Cambron during the opening season of Pairi Daiza. Minister, will the SNCB transport offer to Pairi Daiza be improved in the short and medium term? Why aren't there more trains departing from Ath to Cambron?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u14	Dear colleague, during the road show or the provincial tour with the elected representatives of Hainaut, as part of the preparation of the new transport plan of December 2017, the SNCB took note of the various requests and remarks made. The improvement of the supply to Pairi Daiza Park is one of the demands made on this occasion. All applications are currently the subject of in-depth studies, the results of which will be reported at the next road shows on the new transport plan of December 2017 in the first half of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that the request is there and that you will be attentive. If you can restore some equality between the lion of Antwerp and the panda of Brugelette, I will be the happiest man in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u16	Madam President, I suggest that you change your mode of travel to talk about the monoroue. Minister, the monoroue does not yet have a status in the Road Traffic Code. At the April 27, 2016 session of the commission, colleagues had expressed concern about the evolution of the Road Traffic Code regarding mono-wheel-style electrical equipment. Currently, these vehicles cannot be recognized as displacement gear because they have an engine, are capable of exceeding the speed of 18 km/h, but they have only one wheel. You replied that you were waiting for the advice of the Council of State to take a royal decree amending the Road Traffic Code. You said that this procedure took longer than expected because - I quote - "this adaptation was included in the draft amendment order, which also incorporates the changes relating to speed pedalecs." Recently, the press reported on advances in electric bicycles capable of exceeding 25 km/h. On the other hand, nothing was said about electric monowheels. The lack of legal status for the monoroue also poses some problems in terms of insurance. The IBSR would recommend that users of these new modes of transport be insured in RCs. But it appears that no insurance company seems to be willing to cover this type of vehicle until it is explicitly recognized by the Road Traffic Code. It is therefore imperative to legislate quickly. So this is my question, Minister. What is the status of the procedure for amending the Royal Decree amending the Road Traffic Code with regard to these devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u17	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. New vehicles appear almost every week in the world. Last week, they were individual drones, flying two metres above your head. I wonder what will happen when they reach 1,200 000, since it is the number of these machines produced in the first phase by the Chinese, which intend to invade the world market. Here we return to the road. Under the Royal Decree of 21 July 2016 amending the Road Traffic Code, which entered into force on 1 October 2016, electric monowheels with a maximum design speed of 18 km/h are now treated as motorized travel units, whereas this category previously applied to two-wheeled vehicles or more. The pedestrian traffic rules apply when these gears are moving at the pace of the step, while the cycling rules apply in the case of higher speeds. Since motorised travel units are not subject to the approval of European models to verify that they can be used safely, it is up to each Member State to determine the extent to which they permit their use on public roads. Belgium has decided, for safety reasons, to allow their movement provided that their maximum design speed is limited to 18 km/h. Electric monowheels which may exceed this speed are therefore not currently allowed to operate on the public road in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u19	Minister, one of the reforms announced by the government is about corporate cars. The principle is to leave a choice to those who have a company car. They can now either keep it or benefit from a net increase of 450 euros on average. While the implementation of such a measure is still unclear, it may reduce the number of vehicles on the road, improve mobility and contribute to a reduction in pollution. But is this measure really intended for everyone? I have some doubts. As you know, minister, I come from a rural area and I can assure you that a worker still needs a vehicle to move around. The people in rural areas have no choice but to take the car in order to make their journeys and few elements encourage them, unfortunately, to separate themselves from their vehicles, as the supply of trains is insufficient and the timetables are not or poorly adapted. I could also add constantly longer journey times, crowded trains to peak hours, late, etc. The question of the company car will therefore not change the reality of rural areas. Improving mobility and the current supply of trains may change the way workers travel. To respond to the government's new actions, Minister, are you considering improving the rail supply to allow as many people as possible to stop taking the car? If so, what are you proposing in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u20	With regard to rail supply, SNCB's 2017 transport plan foresees an increase in the annual number of trains/kilometres of 3 500 000 km. This is the greatest increase in the last twenty years. This increase applies to both urban and rural areas. For example, the future transport plan proposed by SNCB will incorporate the said Luxembourg loop. As part of this transport plan, SNCB will also aim to improve commercial speed by 3%. Another objective is to improve and develop the connections between trains with multimodal connecting nodes. In terms of rolling stock, 445 M-7 cars will be phased in from November 2018, representing 135,000 seats. In order to promote chain mobility, all public transport operators, federal or regional, must be part of the concept of integrated public transport leading to multimodal transport nodes. The strategy must be based on the essential collaboration of all public transport companies and other mobility service providers such as carpooling, bicycle rental, car sharing, etc. This should allow for more efficient intermodality: train/car, train/bus, train/tram, train/velo, train/metro and others. Starting from the rail system as a structural axis, I hope that all actors can cooperate on effective mobility solutions and efficient public transport that are complementary and responsive to the needs of companies. As such, I have proposed to the Regional Ministers of Mobility that we meet regularly to develop this strong strategy in areas where coordination can add value to the mobility of citizens and businesses in the north, central and southern parts of the country, urban hubs or rural areas. Indeed, wherever the train stops, it is important for customers to have a quality terminal transport solution, in particular through the permanent consultations of regional public transport companies but also with local authorities, so that all modes of travel are facilitated. However, in this context, it would be harmful for regional companies to reduce their offers, which has been the case over the past five years. In concrete terms, we are asked for additional trains, but it is not necessary for the trains to land people in the middle of nature where there is no bus to take care of them. This responsibility lies with the regional authorities and not with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u21	I understand your answer, which seems to me to be a good augury. I will allow myself to relay your response to the Regions, so that we have a coherent policy so that we can achieve the objectives that you have set yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u22	Question No 14778 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u23	Minister, the multi-annual investment plan is still under negotiation. Yet a number of messages are already piercing out. The interest of Limburg announced on 27 October this year that SNCB would shortly submit a building application for the new Mechelen station. The cost of that project would amount to around EUR 100 million. This is in stark contrast to the budgets that would be made available. I would press the word "infrabel" for the renovation of Hasselt's station: EUR 11.6 million by SNCB and EUR 5 million by Infrabel. Although the budgets are still subject to final approval, this is why the conditional clause is still to be adopted. Let there be no doubt about it, Minister: both stations date from about the same period and are in need of a thorough renewal. This ambition was already included in the previous multi-annual investment plan. It is unclear to me why one station can count on a budget that is almost ten times higher than the budget for another station. Mr President, first of all, on the basis of what objective criteria does SNCB decide to invest in the renovation and renewal of a station and in what way? How is the amount to be invested determined? Secondly, the station halls of Hasselt and Mechelen date from about the same period. In Mechelen the construction of a new station hall is being carried out, not in Hasselt. How does SNCB justify this decision? Thirdly, how does SNCB justify the decision to set aside a budget for the renewal of the Mechelen station which is no less than ten times higher than the budget that could possibly be made available for a piece of renovation of the Hasselt station?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u24	The amount of the investments to be carried out shall be determined on the basis of criteria such as the size of the passenger building, its state, its possible reconstruction, if the cost of renovation is too high and, if necessary, the number of platforms to be renewed and the widening of the passages underneath. This also depends on the number of passengers using the station. In addition, the demand for car and bicycle parking spaces is examined and any additional parking for those modes is invested in order to promote intermodality and increase the number of passengers taking the train from the station concerned. For the Mechelen station, investment budgets were approved in 2011. The assignments were assigned and the works started. Things can't be reversed now. SNCB informs me that the Mechelen station is being adapted both on the ground floor and on the underground level with the aim of optimising access and thus making it an open station. Next year an underground car park, an underground bus station and a large bicycle shed will also be available. Since the works on the parking and the roads, plus a rail bypass, were in full swing, the concept of the station could only be optimized. Work on the station should be able to continue. A few years ago, Hasselt also drew up a concept for a completely new station, office building and tram and bus station. Because the Spartacus project was delayed, the works had not yet started in Hasselt. In view of its budgetary constraints, SNCB has revised its priorities and decided to invest first in the comfort of the passenger and the accessibility of the station. For Hasselt, it means that the current station building is maintained and renovated. Hasselt station also has fewer tracks than Mechelen's. There are therefore fewer platforms to renovate. The current underpass is also preserved. However, full accessibility for less mobile passengers will be ensured. In addition to the investments in passenger comfort, the investment plan will also cover additional parking spaces for bicycles and motor vehicles where there are too few, allowing additional passengers to be attracted. From now on, each project will be analysed in an investment cell. This should examine the means to be used to provide clean and functional stations to SNCB's customers. If the decision on the Mechelen station were to be submitted to me today, I would act on the basis of that criterion. However, I do not have that choice. All investments will now be considered for the benefit of the customer and no large-scale railway station will be financed. They are now asking for four major stations. However, now is not the time for new major stations. Priority is now given to the traveller, only to the offer for travelers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u25	Mr. Secretary, let me zoom in on your last statement. Let it be clear: I am not asking for a new station of Calatrava or one like in Mons, in the south of our country. I ask for a modern, safe, multimodal and accessible station. No more and no less. You list a number of criteria: the size, the state of the building, the ratio to the cost of renovation and the number of travellers. These are all understandable criteria, which I am sure will apply to Hasselt. This is a city centre, the capital of my province. Indeed, the number of passengers is rather limited, but that is because Hasselt is hardly unlocked. I will return to that in a later question. I merely note that Limburg has been structurally under-funded in the investment plans since the beginning of the 1990s. Only 1.5 to 1.9 % of the available budget is allocated to my province, which does not even mean that the allocation decisions are implemented. The objective figures indicate a structural underfunding of the province of Limburg. I think we absolutely need to invest in Hasselt's station. You say that comfort needs to be improved and more parking places need to be provided to attract more travellers. Will EUR 11.6 million be enough? Moreover, I am not at all sure that this will be remedied in the multi-annual investment plan. So I ask your support for what comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u26	Mr Minister, by analysing historical data on components in rail infrastructure or rolling stock, it is much better to carry out predictive maintenance. Today the dates of inspections are often used only to determine whether maintenance is necessary in the short term. The international testing and certification company DEKRA Rail is changing this. It conducts analyses to determine the maintenance condition of the lubricated systems of railway equipment. In this way, predictions are made about the lifespan and the maintenance needs of the components. I have a few questions about this. What happens to our railway companies with the dates of inspections of both rail infrastructure and rolling stock? How is the maintenance of infrastructure and rolling stock organised by the railway undertakings? Is attention already being paid to such predictive maintenance? Are our rail companies aware of the findings of DEKRA Rail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u27	As far as Infrabel is concerned, the maintenance of the infrastructure at Infrabel has been controlled for a long time from a follow-up of the installations. The computerization of data management and automatic collection of the state data with the latest technology allow predictive maintenance. As a commercial company, DEKRA Rail profils itself in the consultancy market by offering support for the technical managers. Infrabel follows these developments closely but relies primarily on its own technical expertise. The market is consulted when there is a need for support. When considering the maintenance of the infrastructure, it should be noted that there is a clear distinction between review and maintenance. In the case of inspection, regular checks shall be made to ensure that the condition of the installations complies with the standards. The frequency of the displays depends on installation to installation. In the case of new installations, the continuous and automated follow-up of the operating parameters can be regulated. The latest ERTMS installations are an example of this. Maintenance means the work to restore installations subject to wear and tear or ageing to their initial operating state. This type of intervention is based on the established state of the installations and the known laws in their evolution. There is a comprehensive technical regulation indicating when and how such works should be carried out. When the limit values are reached, the complete replacement of components is appropriate. One example of this is the rails. In the case of SNCB, the inspection data are stored in the SAP IT system. With each new maintenance and/or repair, the most recent history of that data is in principle consulted by the maintenance manager who carries out the work. SNCB is also aware of the activities of DEKRA Rail. It points to the existence of many other consultancy companies operating in the domain of predictive maintenance. The maintenance of the rolling stock shall be based on the distance travelled and/or the time between the necessary maintenance operations. For the new equipment, such as the Desiro pedestals, telemetry has been used for two years, remote monitoring via sensors of the various train sets. This technology offers many advantages, for example faster detection of the cause and hence of the recovery time and a gradual build-up of data that ultimately allow predictive maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u28	Minister, I understand that both Infrabel and SNCB have clearly defined maintenance processes and that there is a great deal of expertise in the house. Especially at Infrabel the market is consulted in the second instance. I would also like to make no mistake: I am not arguing for one specific company, but it is good that SNCB is following developments in that market and is also doing an automated job of storing historical data in the context of maintenance, which should consolidate the safety of rail traffic in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u29	A few months ago, Minister, you stated in a written reply that 747 ticket machines have already been installed in Belgian stations. This makes the park almost complete, except for some sites under construction, including in Anderlecht. The ratio between sales at the counter and sales to the vending machine was approximately 70/30 in January last year. It had already evolved to 50/50 in June of this year, and the percentage of the vending machine is constantly rising. In 2015, SNCB's Board of Directors decided to close the booths in a number of stations, precisely because the activity rate of the counter operators deteriorated. If this trend is confirmed, the question arises as to how SNCB's Board of Directors will react to this. Will any more counters be closed? In order to prevent station buildings from being abandoned, without any dynamics, we at Open Vld already suggested that consideration should be given to giving shop concessions in non-stop stations, operated by private operators, where tickets are sold and at the same time the waiting room and toilet space can remain open to the public. You did not throw that idea away at the time and indicated that, I quote, the development of an additional indirect sales channel is under consideration." Firstly, will SNCB re-assess the level of activity of the counter operators in the foreseeable future? If so, when? Secondly, is there any chance of closing windows in the next round? Thirdly, at what stage are there discussions on the development of an additional indirect sales channel? Fourthly, in what way does SNCB intend to prevent abandoned station buildings from slowly but surely decaying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u30	SNCB shall monitor the activity at its points of contact on a regular basis. Depending on this, the organization can be adapted. In the coming years, however, this will not lead to the cessation of the point of contact at the stations. In fact, SNCB no longer plans any further closing of points of contact before 2020 and has contacted the municipalities concerned to check whether they are interested in accommodating certain services in the building for station buildings where the counters were closed. These services can therefore be responsible for keeping waiting rooms and/or toilets open. For example, it successfully collaborates with Courcelles for a municipal technical school, with Écaussinnes for a tourist association, with Statte at Andenne for an exhibition of the city, with Houyet for the tourist office, with Gedinne for residential construction, with Grupont for public purposes, with Herseaux for a residence of the city of Mouskroen, with Herstal for a municipal company and with Thuin for a job house. In Merchtem, Beernem and Bornem the municipality keeps a waiting room open. If the municipality does not find a solution, as much as possible by means of market consultations an occupation of the premises is sought, if the station building could later be used for public service contracts, or a buyer for the building. As for your question about the additional indirect sales channel, SNCB already has a very extensive own sales network. The sales to the counters decreased from 65% in October 2013 to 46 % in September 2016. At the same time, sales via the vending machines increased from 16% to 44%. The share of online sales evolved from 6,6 % to 7,5%. The network is both physically and digitally available. Analyses show a high overall satisfaction of travellers with the current sales channels. The customer's overall satisfaction with the service provided by SNCB in the period from January to June 2016 is 64.4 %. If we look specifically at the sales channels, the satisfaction is even 81.9 %. In view of the major budgetary challenges facing SNCB, the development of a new distribution network through local partners is therefore not currently under discussion. The added value of additional physical sales networks through third parties will be too low to justify the necessary investments. In addition, earlier initiatives to diversify sales channels have produced very limited results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say today that the thought trail of additional indirect sales channels is being abandoned. The offer is sufficient and there is a huge evolution in the way tickets are purchased. I will read your answer carefully, but at least we will stick to our position. During discussions on this matter in committee, we have always referred to the PostPoints. Often it is about self-employed people who run a shop and they also sell a number of bpost products. For train tickets that should also be possible. We regret the answer we are receiving today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u32	Minister, I have repeatedly pointed out to you in this committee that the Hasselt station is being destroyed. It's about defective escalators, platforms full of weeds, crumbling wall tiles, worn door and floor mats and so on. SNCB also sees that the situation of the station is distressing and, quite rightly, is encountering increasing protests. Many Limburgers are tired of their province being ignored in recent years when the budgets for rail investment were distributed. Of course, that protest isn't fun for SNCB. According to the news from TV Limburg, on 3 November 2016, the railway company would therefore have imposed an explicit ban on all employees of Hasselt station to contact the media. Is it true that SNCB prohibited employees in Hasselt from speaking to the media? If so, how do you feel about such a ban? By whom and for what reasons was that decision made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u33	Madam President, in order to answer questions from the press in a professional and coordinated manner, SNCB has several spokesmen. They maintain the necessary contacts with the press. Those spokesmen are indeed the only persons authorised to inform the press. SNCB therefore asks all staff to refer all questions from the press to the press service. This method is not new and is set out in an internal code of conduct for staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u34	Minister, that is clear. You refer to the existing code of conduct and to the processes that exist within the company in this respect. The fact that people are called upon to inform the press is, in any case, significant. That is not allowed, as I hear it, and I understand that. However, I also understand that people need to get rid of their frustration. After all, it is a disgrace to have to work in such an environment every day. Some people are quite right to be ashamed of what's going on. I am ashamed and I hope that you are also a little ashamed of what is happening in Hasselt. I propose to use that as a lever, to finally do what needs to be done, as I asked during my previous reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u35	Madam President, Minister, you have now understood that Hasselt's station infrastructure is close to my heart. That is why I would like to ask you the following question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u37	Almost. I live in the main city of Limburg, 15 kilometers more to the south, namely Bilzen. So close to Hasselt. A new day, a new escalator that is failing, Minister. That's what it looks like in the soap opera in Hasselt's station. Almost daily an escalator breaks down. The main stage, which was recently restored after almost one and a half months of standstill, turned out to be out of service a few days after the repair. Fortunately for the many commuters the repairs took a little less time this time. The same day the escalator was made again. However, these many failures raise questions about the safety of the escalators and the stations in general. I have the following questions for you. How is the safety of the station infrastructure in Hasselt, such as escalators and platforms, monitored? Who is carrying out these checks? How often do these checks take place? When was the last inspection of the Hasselt station's infrastructure carried out? What were the findings? Is there a report on this? If so, can you provide me with the last inspection report? Over the past few weeks, several escalators in the station had to be repaired. Following such repairs, will safeguards be carried out automatically, whether mandatory or not? Were the repaired escalators at Hasselt station re-examined before they were put back into service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u38	Mr President, SNCB informs me that the escalators at Hasselt station are maintained and repaired by engineers at Schindler. There is also a maintenance contract with a company for cleaning and lighting on the platforms. Since Sunday 3 November another escalator is defective. SNCB regrets the inconvenience and therefore follows the situation closely. The inspection of the escalators is not required by law. SNCB does, however, carry out a thorough safety inspection every three months. The escalators are also partially dismantled each year to check their condition. All escalators in use are therefore safe to use. The inspection reports are internal documents of SNCB. There is no legal obligation to inspect escalators after a repair. The quarterly periodic inspection is simply maintained. Supplementary to the inspections, the maintenance contract with Schindler requires the technicians to carry out a preventive maintenance of the escalators every two months. The main stage was out of service for one and a half months because a necessary part was not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The inspection report is an internal document. I accept that. Apparently, the cleaning and maintenance of escalators and lighting are being issued to external firms. For the escalators, that's Schindler. I am still asking myself whether the maintenance contract is in order if we have to accept that we have to wait a month and a half for a repair because a particular part is not present. I think that's extremely long. You're saying that a statutory inspection isn't mandatory. So be it, but there will be a quarterly security inspection. The escalators are disassembled and checked to ensure that they are safe. I do not question the expertise of the personnel carrying out the inspections, but I note that the escalators never work. Then I'll come back to my question. The escalators don't work anymore because they're worn out. Something must be done about that. Let me make the comparison with my professional history. If I had to receive my staff, customers and suppliers in such infrastructure, my company would be shut down without a hitch and then there was no employment and no added value. Well, in this case, SNCB will benefit from a shack in the form of an apology for the use of words as a station in the main city of Limburg. You need to fix this. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u40	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the M7 carriages. Many questions have been asked about this in the past, but they were more about the layout and design of these carriages. My question concerns the order. It's a good thing that order happened. She was needed, too. I refer to Mr Foret's question at the beginning of this sitting on the importance of performing rolling stock. The order for more than three billion euros was finally placed at Bombardier/ Alstom. That order was also very important for the production site of Bombardier in Bruges. During the negotiations it was agreed between SNCB and the company that these carriages would be built in Bruges. However, we are now reading that Bombardier will remove additional jobs worldwide. There is doubt whether the M7 will be built in Bruges. I therefore have a very short and clear question, Minister. What guarantees does SNCB have that the M7 will be built at the Bombardier production site in Bruges?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u41	Madam President, Ms De Coninck, on 18 December 2015, SNCB signed a contract with Bombardier/ Alstom. At that time, these two companies were active in our country, with production entities in Bruges and Charleroi. The imposition of production sites in such contracts is prohibited by European regulations, but SNCB informs me that the sites where the manufacturers produce M7 vehicles were determined in the contract. The amendment of this provision is linked to a set of quality conditions. SNCB has not yet received a request for amendment. I am, of course, following this important dossier very closely. The federal government has made every effort and will continue to do so within the legal limits to keep the implementation of this important contract in Belgium. It is important that the Länder of this country, which are responsible for the regional transport companies, and therefore their orders, should also register in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u42	Thank you for your reply, Minister. If I have understood correctly, such a condition should not be imposed as a condition in the contract documents, which is logical, but is included in the contract between the two parties, which is legally possible, and is therefore enforceable. If they don't implement it, it will be subject to sanctions. Then I'm reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u43	Minister, in its government statement a few weeks ago, the government announced that it would work on the introduction of the mobility budget. That is a bit of a fuss, because there are different legislations. There is not only an impact on mobility, but also on labour law, taxation and the environment. After all the explanations on the subject, there are still some uncertainties. Do you have any idea what the mobility budget will look like? Who is eligible for this? Does the budget apply to everyone or only to those who now own a company car? Important for our party is that the measure is budget neutral, both for the employer and the employee as well as for the federal budget. I would like an answer from you to that question. Will the mobility budget have an impact on the federal budget? Have any funds already been committed to this? How will we ensure that the mobility budget is also about budget neutral for the employer and the employee? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u44	The question has already been addressed at the latest meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 27 October 2016. I therefore refer to the answer I gave to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Question No 146, by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke Mr David Geerts. I'll get you that answer. There are no new elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u45	When no new elements have appeared, it is certain that referring to the answer is not misinformed. There are enough questions already! We will return to that during the discussion of the general policy note, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u46	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u47	We will certainly come back to this and I will read the answers to those questions again, to see if any new elements have been added. As I said, the mobility budget is indeed going to be a piece of cake. For us, it is important that a mobility budget can be spent on all modes of transport. It can't be the intention to distribute cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u48	Mr Minister, I have a question about the Treski, SNCB's ski train. At the end of September, SNCB communicated that there will be no ski train to Austria this winter. In recent years, about a thousand travelers drove the Treski to their ski destination. There was also a great customer satisfaction about that train. That's what I found in the customer satisfaction report. According to SNCB, the Treski will not be deposited this year because there is no commercial agreement with Railpromo. SNCB is now looking for a new partner for the next winter season. SNCB says, however, that it will take the carriages out of service by the end of next year. It is therefore unclear which carriages are to be used. So I fear that the ski train will be abolished not only this year, but also in the following years. Minister, was this service profitable? Would you mind explaining that for me? Why isn't there a commercial deal for the Treski? What is the point of contention that the SNCB and Railpromo no longer offer ski trains? What options is SNCB looking at for the following years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u49	SNCB reports that Treski's operating model was based on the charter principle last season, whereby SNCB leased its equipment to Railpromo which took the commercial risk. SNCB bought a fixed quota of seats on the different trains. Last season was profitable for SNCB. SNCB had revenue from the rental of rail equipment to Railpromo, the sale of berths and the commission from the sale. There is no commercial agreement this year to allow a Treski ski train to run because Railpromo requested a higher participation in the commercial risk in the form of a fixed reduction of 15% more places, and also at a higher price. The Belgians mainly go skiing during the Christmas holidays and the crocus holiday. Outside, the occupation of the trains is very low. Railpromo wants a fixed reduction in places, even in the valley periods, which is not an option for SNCB. In view of these circumstances and the signals from the market, it was decided jointly that there would be no cooperation this season. This does not imply an assessment of the future offer that can be organised, for example, with carriages from a private operator such as Railpromo, or with day trains. For example, Thalys can travel to the French Alps. SNCB is also considering setting up a co-operation with OBB, using the existing night trains between Düsseldorf and Innsbruck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. I will certainly read it again, but I remember that Treski used to be profitable for SNCB, but Railpromo is now asking for different conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u51	Recently, I read in the press that the regional transport company De Lijn will introduce a guaranteed service to ensure that buses would also run on strike days. According to your regional colleague, Mr Weyts, this would be done through a provision in the management agreement. All the majority parties in the Flemish government support this principle. At federal level, too, discussions are under way on the provision of a guaranteed service to SNCB, for which we have tabled a legislative proposal. The conversations have been dragging on for years. However, the vast majority of the population support a guaranteed service. We have recently looked at the four scenarios proposed by SNCB and Infrabel in our committee to develop a guaranteed service, but the social dialogue has shown that a unanimous solution is impossible. So I think it's up to the political world to make decisions now. How do you want to implement a guaranteed service? When will you come to Parliament with your proposal? Are you working on the basis of the scenarios outlined by the railway companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u52	That question was already discussed at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 19 October 2016 in the afternoon following Question No 13611 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, question No. Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees 14454 by Mrs Grovonius. Today is not yet 31 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u53	But 31 December 2015 is already over. That was your predecessor's deadline, if I recall correctly. I therefore note that there are no new elements for this dossier. Minister, we attach great importance to the provision of services. There's an urgent need. I am also afraid of strikes when we adopt the bill on various provisions on mobility. I therefore believe that it is important to introduce the guaranteed service. I look forward to your proposals. The management agreement will soon be submitted to Parliament, I hope. Will you introduce the guaranteed services by means of a draft law or will you include a clause in the management agreement in this respect? We are prepared to engage in the debate on all possible slopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u54	Mr Minister, my next question concerns legal certainty for our national airport. Everyone will remember. Brussels was dead and abandoned after the attacks of 22 March. The airport also turned on a very low pitch for a long time. The cafés, shops, hotels and restaurants in the capital were all empty. There were fears of massive bankruptcies. They were impatiently looking forward to the day the airport was back on full rotation. I remember the news footage of that first special flight. Apparently, however, they have a short memory. Brussels announced that it would introduce a zero tolerance for its noise standards, which differ from the noise standards of the other regions. If that becomes a reality, it will cost thousands of jobs. I have already mentioned the importance of the airport. It is one of our largest employers, the second economic engine in Flanders. There are plans to create thousands more jobs. However, for this to happen, the airport needs legal certainty. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Do you recognise the importance of the airport for employment in Brussels and the Flemish Rand? When will you come up with a plan for greater legal certainty for the airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u55	The national airport must be regarded as an important social and economic core, both for our country and for each of the three regions. There are thousands of jobs directly and indirectly linked to the airport's activities. The airport provides a non-significant share of our gross domestic product. It is also a prominent international gateway and display window for both Belgium and Brussels, the heart of Europe. Many parties have recognised this reality with or without great publicity in the media as a result of the ministerial responsibilities they have observed. The search for solutions to the problem of noise, which we are currently working on, is entirely in line with the government agreement, which states: "In view of the particular importance of the Brussels National Airport for the economy and employment in our country, the government will support the economic development of the airport, taking into account the living conditions of the residents and of all the citizens affected by noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u56	Minister, I fully follow you when you talk about the importance of the airport for employment and the economy of our country. This dossier has been dragging on for a long time and I believe that it is up to politics to make decisions. It is important to ensure fair distribution and quality of life in both the Flemish Rand and Brussels, but at present there is still no objective framework for determining the routes. I think it might cost jobs at the airport if this doesn't work out quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u57	Madam President, Minister, I have a question about parking at the Tienen station. The city administration of Tienen is quite angry at SNCB after recently having heard that the promised additional parking spaces will be removed. The current car park does not have sufficient capacity, as appeared already in 2009. There was already an extension of 1 050 places to 1 650 places. The parking building would also be on the other side of the station, which would have positive effects on mobility and development at the front. Now seven years later it turns out cold that the extra parking spaces will not be there. However, the expansion of parking facilities is an important focus of SNCB everywhere, in order to make the train more attractive. That is why I have the following questions for you. Why is SNCB deleting the plans for the extra parking spaces at the Tienen railway station? What are the reasons for this? Was the decision taken before or after the government decision to invest an additional EUR 1 billion in rail? How was the decision communicated to the municipal administration? What was the estimated cost of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u58	Madam President, SNCB informs me that some years ago, on behalf of the various authorities concerned, a master plan was drawn up for Tienen. The plan provided, among other things, for the construction of a parking space for 1 650 cars. However, more than 1 500 parking spaces are currently available on SNCB's grounds. In addition, about 150 cars are parked on the access roads around the station. In view of the high cost of such a large car park, both in terms of investment and operation, SNCB is looking for alternatives within its financial capacity. Both the introduction of paid parking and the ground-floor expansion and optimization of the existing parking are investigated. For this purpose, the estimates have yet to be drawn up. Those plans will be tested in consultation with the city of Tienen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u59	I am somewhat concerned by your reply, Minister, because you say that there are enough parking spaces in the current situation. The people of Tienen won't lose their car near the station in the morning from 7:45 a.m. I would advise you to look at that file again. One possible solution is to reopen the stop in Kumtich, a district of Tienen, so that the mobility flows are distributed. In reality, there is a shortage of parking spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u60	Minister, airport workers need an airport identification badge. Those who need them for a longer period must apply for a permanent badge. Prior to this, security screening is carried out by the National Security Authority (NVO) support services. Once the screening has been completed and the badge issued, it is valid for five years. The badges can be valid for landside or airside. Only the badges for airside give access to sensitive areas, including near the aircraft. However, during the five-year period of validity of the badge, it may also be withdrawn. If there is evidence that an additional background examination is necessary during this period, a new safety study will be carried out and this may give rise to the withdrawal of the badge. In this context, Minister, I have the following questions. Does the withdrawal of a badge apply to one airport or to all airports where a particular person is employed? Some workers, such as aircraft maintenance workers, are employed at different airports. Is it possible that in the event of the withdrawal of such an employee's badge, this withdrawal will only be applied to one of the airports, while the person can continue to work in another airport? What procedure exists to avoid this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u61	Mrs Kitir, the National Security Authority's safety advice applies to all badges that grant access to areas that are restricted for security reasons, airside. A safety verification must always be carried out in advance. The NVO links its negative safety advice to a specific airport and to certain employers. If a person applies for a badge at different airports but spread over time, these applications will be dealt with separately. The safety advice follows a background study, which is always a snapshot. This safety advice can always be reviewed in the case of new elements that may emerge if there is a time lag between two applications. DGLV is a requesting party to extend such negative safety advice in the context of the ongoing computerisation project within the NVO, given that they are related to the person concerned in substance and that they apply to all airports in that sense. For further information, please refer to my Foreign Minister, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that a negative opinion is given for one particular airport and for one particular employer, and that another badge can be applied for in the interim period, but that application is in the background. I'm talking about the cases where someone's already got a badge. It's not about a new application, it's about someone who already has different badges to work at different airports. If anyone gets a negative advice for the airport in Zaventem, will their badge to work at Charleroi airport remain valid? Did I get that right? So he can still work with his badge at Charleroi Airport in case of a negative advice for Zaventem? Is that correct or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u63	The minister is not obliged to answer again. But you have an answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u64	That's not ready right now. Why? Because it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u65	It's possible, but you don't know why it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u66	There's an investigation going on right now to look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u67	Minister, we are learning that the new corporate plan presented at the last Board of Directors provides for a workforce reduction that is higher than expected. The SNCB plans to work with a workforce of 16,955 full-time equivalents (FTEs) in 2020, a reduction of almost 18% compared to 2014 (20,628 FTEs). However, in its initial plan, the planned workforce for 2020 was 17,241 FTEs. As a result, the SNCB reduced the wing by almost 300 more officers. Minister, why has SNCB decided to step up its workforce reduction from the original plan? What are the reasons for this? What are the functions that will be more affected by job losses? Will there be redundancies or are voluntary departures based on the non-renewal of retirements? Is the downsizing, as envisaged by SNCB and beyond the government, not in complete contradiction with the stated desire to increase the supply and quality of services offered by SNCB? Is this to be seen as a massive abandonment of rural areas and an increase in automation to the detriment of the most fragile of our society, but also to the detriment of the advisory role of SNCB agents, not to mention safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u68	Madam Chair, I will answer two questions at the same time because it was the same content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u69	Mr. Geerts is absent, but he's apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u70	SNCB informs me that the further downgrading of staff will take place mainly with non-operational staff, including administrative staff, accounting staff and legal staff, as well as with the functions in the support services. SNCB proposes to examine in more detail how to increase staff productivity. It will also use computerization and enhanced digitization to reduce the workload of administrative tasks. All possible measures will be taken to ensure that the reduction of staff has a minimal impact on customer service. In the past, the counter operator was able to process large volumes of transactions that had little added value compared to the current digital possibilities. As a result, sales to the counters decreased from 65% in October 2013 to 46 % in September 2016. At the same time, sales via the vending machine increased from 16% to 44%. The share of online sales evolved from 6,6 % to 7,5%. By gradually promoting the use of digital opportunities for standard products, the role of the contact person becomes more varied. Less large volumes of banknotes are sold and there is a greater emphasis on added value, for example in relation to the provision of information to the traveller. Until 2020, the point of contact in the current stations will be guaranteed. By then, the situation will be re-analysed in the light of the customer's evolving purchasing behaviour. With regard to the drivers and the train escorts, there is currently a shortage of 80 Dutch-speaking drivers and 40 Dutch-speaking train escorts. For both categories there is no problem on the French-speaking side. However, a significant number of pension applications in these categories are expected. At the end of 2017, a large number of agents met the current pension requirements. The combination of recruitment problems for Dutch-speaking staff and the large number of staff who can retire make it difficult to estimate recruitment in the coming years. The social dialogue on the employment rate of the Belgian railways will have to take account of this reality. In the context of the preparation of the business plan and the management contract of both SNCB and Infrabel, the future employment rate will be further developed and the necessary recruitment initiatives will have to be discussed. The press wrote on 3 November that, according to its draft business plan, SNCB intends to reduce the number of employees to 16 955 full-time equivalents, which is less than in the original business plan. According to SNCB, that figure doesn't add up. It does not take into account the new transport plan for which 200 additional operational staff are needed and the recruitment of 100 additional Securail agents. These figures include 17 250 full-time equivalents by 1 January 2021, slightly more than is stated in the original business plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u71	Minister, thank you, even if I have to read this carefully. It's complicated to work by questions. As there are four questions on the transport plan, we asked for an exchange of views on the transport plan and the business plan. This was rejected by the majority. So we do an exchange of questions, but it is very difficult to work properly and to have a global vision. If I were you, I would ask the majority to accept this afternoon's exchange of views, which would allow us to have a clearer view. The questions do not allow the subjects to be deepened. On the other hand, I mean discussions about the figures, whereas these are official figures set out in the business plan and were validated at some point by the SNCB which had distributed them. I see a status quo until 2020 in the case of shopkeepers. They will not be a source of decline in employment. I would like to point out that job security has a human dimension and that the presence of personnel in each station, in each train and elsewhere is important because it ensures the quality of transport. I regret that savings are being made mainly on the productivity of workers. I also deplore the overall savings imposed by the government on SNCB, which lead to dark cuts in employment. Minister, I plead that we have a real debate here about the transport plan and the business plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u72	Mr Minister, in the framework of the new transport plan, SNCB's board of directors has approved 63 plans to improve the supply of trains. In its 2017 transport plan, SNCB will go under the code name Angelic (Antwerp, Ghent, Liège, Charleroi) for the realisation of urban suburban networks. It was just supposed to be about extra trains, not extra rail lines. Three quarters of the planned expansions of the offer are located around the major cities. You won't be surprised that I'm particularly interested in the offer for Ghent. What decisions did the board make about the suburban network around Ghent? What decisions will he have to make in the further run-up to the 2017 transport plan? What is the timing for the roll-out of the suburban network in Ghent? What additional services does SNCB plan to provide? What is the starting point? Will old stops be reopened to realize the suburban network? I am thinking of Langerbrugge, Ghent-North or Mariakerke. Why is that? Why is that? Will there be a reduction in service provision for certain connections to Ghent as a result of such a system? Will railway 204 Gent-Zelzate to the port area be reopened for passenger transport? Why is that? Why is that? If that is not the case, what longer-term ambition does SNCB have in relation to that line?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u73	The main aim of the new transport plan is to extend the suburban networks around Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. These cities face serious mobility problems. SNCB wants to concentrate its efforts on these agglomerations. SNCB does not yet wish to communicate in detail the precise additional services provided. The finalised plan, including the detailed timetables, will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in February 2017, as required by the Act for major changes to the transport plan, after its adoption by the SNCB Board in December 2016. The plan will then be implemented in December 2017. The transport plan, which will enter into force in December 2017, is based on the December 2014 transport plan in an improved version. As far as your question on line 204 is concerned, SNCB has carried out, at the request of the government, a study on the potential added value of reopening that line. A reopening of railway line 204 for passenger transport depends on the upgrading of passenger transport infrastructure, for which the necessary budgets in Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan should be allocated, as well as the necessary operating budgets for passenger trains on that line. Such upgrading cannot be achieved within the deadline necessary for the launch of the transport plan of December 2017. Depending on the decisions to be taken under the multi-annual investment plan, SNCB will adjust its offer on line 204 on the basis of the infrastructure that will be available in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u74	Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the timing you set out, namely that no details of the suburban network in Ghent are yet available. We will, of course, follow the dossier very closely. It is a pity that the opening of line 204 for passenger transport is not included in the plan. I've interviewed you and your predecessor a few times about that. I understand the infrastructure needs to be adapted. However, with minor adjustments and a little goodwill, such an exercise is feasible. Should I understand from your answer that these adjustments will no longer be for the present legislature? The harbor people and the port community are really looking forward to it. I would like to stress once again that this must be done and that, in addition to the provision of a suburban network, the opening of railway line 204 must be a priority so that the large port community in Ghent can be served.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u75	I would like to make it clear to my colleagues how a transport plan is being made. Today's transport plan is based on today's infrastructure. If we have to open a new line based on a line that is not in order in terms of infrastructure, it will be today's infrastructure plan that will prepare the transport plan in four years' time. So, concretely, I have requests for lines 104, 15, 18, 19. In order to be able to run trains on a line while the line is not in order, our 2017 transport plan does not know how to resume trains today, but it is today that we must foresee in the investment plan 2016-2020 the infrastructure necessary to run trains from 2020 in the transport plan 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u76	Minister, I am not going to accept a debate on this subject here because it was rejected this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u77	There's another answer after a question asked...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u78	Everything you say is fundamentally interesting for the whole committee, but we will remain in the context of Mr Yüksel's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u79	I am pleased that the Minister has clarified a very specific question, so you do not have to link it with the question that was raised this morning. I understand from the Minister's reply that, on the basis of the current infrastructure, it is not possible to provide for the opening of line 204 and that this can only be achieved at the earliest in the period 2017-2020. Is that correct? I hope that further steps can be taken in this legislative period, both for line 204 and for other lines, on which, of course, my fellow Members are also very interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the government wants to introduce social elections to the railways. For the summer recess, we adopted the draft law on various provisions on Mobility. We have, of course, already advocated the introduction of social elections. That bill states that elections should be organised by the end of 2018. However, the railway unions are opposed to its introduction. They fear a loss of power. The trade unions themselves were given the opportunity to develop a social election scheme. The deadline for this is the end of this year. In other cases, such as the provision of services, we find that the trade unions do not always cooperate constructively. The deadlines were almost never respected. There is a fear that the same tactics will be used in this dossier. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. What action will you take if the railway unions have not drawn up a proposal for social elections by the end of December this year? How will you guarantee that social elections will take place with SNCB by the end of 2018 at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u81	Madam President, HR Rail has been organising task force meetings since the publication of the law of 3 August 2016 in consultation with the syndicated organisations in preparation for the social elections. Those meetings shall discuss and elaborate the electoral procedures, the actions preceding the electoral procedures and the number of mandates. These meetings shall be organised on a regular basis and shall proceed until further notice in a constructive manner in order to reach the desired elections by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for that clear answer. I hope that you will continue to follow the dossier closely, so that we do not have to deal with a dossier such as that relating to guaranteed services, which referred my proposals for social consultation to the Greek calendar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u83	Mr Minister, this question concerns the contractor who failed to carry out railway infrastructure work on line 125. I have already asked you a question about this, Minister, before the summer recess, namely when I asked you about the sanctions imposed on the contractor who had to carry out a series of rail infrastructure works on the 125 Namur-Liege line. There was a tragic train accident on that line at the beginning of June. A public tender was issued for the works there in 2014. However, six months after the award of the contract, the works had not yet started. Unfortunately, I had to observe that you only gave me an answer to my first question. The remaining questions remained unanswered, which is why I feel free to put a number of questions to you again. Firstly, the contractor would have been prohibited, inter alia, from participating in public contracts for a certain period of time. Can you confirm this again? Who made this decision? Secondly, for what period was the contractor excluded? If I'm not mistaken, I didn't get an answer to that either. Thirdly, does such a prohibition apply only to public contracts awarded by Infrabel or does it apply to all other public contracts? Fourthly, is it true that Infrabel has never used this sanction before? In other words, is it effective the first time that a contractor who defaults is temporarily excluded from dealing with contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u84	Dear colleague, On 4 March 2016, Infrabel unilaterally decided to terminate the contract and a reservation was also made to impose an additional penalty, in particular the temporary exclusion of the contractor in relation to Infrabel's participation in tenders. The contractor left the yard immediately but contested the decision taken. The Parties have subsequently entered into constructive discussions. However, the contractor immediately undertook not to participate in invitations to tender issued by Infrabel during the discussions. In order to avoid a court case and not to block the launch of the tender, a contract was agreed with the contractor on 10 June 2016 until an immediate termination of the contract rather than a unilateral termination, until the contractor's commitment not to participate in tenders issued by Infrabel until 15 August 2016, until the contractor's commitment to not participate in the tender of the terminated contract and to pay compensation by the contractor in any event. Through this agreement, Infrabel obtained the same result as at the beginning, with the additional advantage that the commitments entered into in the agreement cannot be challenged. The prohibition is limited to tenders issued by Infrabel. The exclusion sanction provided for in Article 48 (1) of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 shall apply only to works contracts after the entry into force of the abovementioned Royal Decree on 1 July 2013. To date, this sanction has never been applied by Infrabel for works contracts. In this case, the unilateral termination was converted into an amicable settlement with the same result.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u85	Mr. Secretary, I didn't hear you as well. There was a commitment not to participate until 15 August 2016, or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u86	15 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u87	Good. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u88	Mr Geerts is ill and therefore absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u89	Mr President, Minister, the Board of Directors of SNCB recently approved the new transport plan for 2017. However, Flemish Minister for Mobility Ben Weyts does not intend to approve that transport plan. He would first like to clarify the forthcoming multi-annual investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel. After all, there is no vision of this today. In particular, the Minister is not satisfied that the transport plan explicitly states that no operation is planned for, among other things, three Limburg railway lines. How does SNCB's transport plan relate to SNCB's and Infrabel's multi-annual investment plans? What's the status today? To what extent is the transport plan a preliminaries of these multi-annual investment plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I would like to endorse this. I would like to talk about the meeting of the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers, where these matters are discussed. We read in Minister Weyts' communication that there would have been a meeting on this matter yesterday. Hence my next questions. What was the outcome of yesterday's meeting on SNCB's transport plan? What is your answer to the concerns of your Flemish colleague Minister for Mobility, given that he is indeed linking the two dossiers, namely the transport plan and the multi-annual investment plan, but that this would also have been decided by the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility? First, it is decided to link the files, but then one of the partners turns out not to comply with that decision. Hence my question for clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u91	Mr Minister, as has already been said, the Board of Directors of SNCB, under the new transport plan, has approved 63 plans to improve the supply of trains. Considering everything, that is a breakthrough and good news. For the first time since 1998, there has been a serious increase in the number of train kilometres. Despite all the doomsdays about SNCB, this is a positive fact and a good thing for public rail transport in our country. Also positive about the transport plan is that there has been much better consultation with various stakeholders, including the regional transport companies, and also a wider consultation through a road show, in which various stakeholders were heard from each province. For the time being, no new railway lines will be included in the transport plan. For this to happen, decisions must first be taken at the level of the investment plan, after which the infrastructure works can be carried out. Let me take a look at the problems of lines 15, 18 and 20, to which Mr Raskin referred. Mr Minister, among us, I do not see any opposition here, I regret that the transport plan is being broken down by your Flemish colleague, because I think it is above all a positive story. Nevertheless, the demand for exploitation on these lines is justified. I believe that the transport plan is drawn up on the basis of the infrastructure available and that the investment in new infrastructure should be seen separately, but it is therefore no less urgent. If the new infrastructure is there, a transport plan can of course always be adapted. But this aside. I have the following questions. Could you briefly explain the broad lines of the decisions that have been taken? Were these decisions discussed with you? I suppose so. Are they in line with the future investment plan and the future management contracts? What is the further timing for the 2017 transport plan? What is the status of the investment plan? That is important, because we have been waiting far too long for it. What's the further timing for that? You announced last summer that an additional billion will be invested in the railways. That's a federal government decision. Will that billion be incorporated into the investment plan? What exactly will this budget be used for? I understand that it will be used on the French-speaking side for the further roll-out of the GEN Brussels, but it may include other projects. Finally, you have set up an investment committee, which aims to transcend box thinking, so thinking from Infrabel on the one hand and from SNCB on the other, although that is not meant to be negative. In this way, one can combine the two partners in the case of investments which represent one cost but can generate the other, and thus make the cost-benefit analysis in a better way than at the company level alone, on the part of Infrabel. When we look at the lines to which Mr Raskin referred, for example the electrification of Mol-Hamont and Mol-Hasselt, we see that these costs generate for Infrabel, but they also mean income and less costs for SNCB. We have to put one and the other side by side in order to make a proper decision on these investments. How will that be dealt with? Will one maintain a helicopter vision of the two, namely the costs for Infrabel and the revenues for SNCB, in order to assess the investment as a whole if the buttons for the investment plan need to be cut?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB intends to adapt the transport plan every three years in order to meet the changing needs of the customer and at the same time to take account of the planning of works on the rail network. The development of the new management contract and the multi-annual investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel is based on the following four main principles. First of all, attract more travellers. Secondly, increase the capacity of the trains. Thirdly, optimise the use of the existing network. Fourthly, to increase the capacity of the network. In that context, the 2017 Transport Plan aims to optimise the use of the railway infrastructure currently available, taking into account, inter alia, the recruitment of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. The adjustment of the timetable came after an extensive consultation with stakeholders and regional transport partners, which started already in September 2015. This is the first time SNCB has consulted its stakeholders so early in the process. For example, consultations have already taken place with the passenger association, the regional transport companies and the various regions. A total of three rounds of meetings were held between SNCB, the transport companies and the administrations of the three regions responsible for mobility, and four meetings of the ECMM were held, each preceded by several preparatory meetings. Because of an operator of public transport, this is an unseen consultation and transparency effort. Never before has a company like SNCB invested so much energy in consultation with the other mobility actors. On my own initiative, the mayors and local and regional political leaders were consulted by SNCB during a provincial road show in May and June. This consultation resulted in a whole series of proposals, which were assessed in addition to customer potential for their technical and financial feasibility. A total of 129 proposals were made. Of these, 29 proposals proved not technically feasible by 2020, but out of the 100 remaining proposals, 63 will eventually remain after the above-mentioned feasibility analysis. The proposals should lead to a series of improvements and extensions to the existing transport plan. The Mobility Ministers appreciate the consultation process within the ECMM as well as the transparency towards the Regions with regard to the proposals for SNCB's new transport plan. Despite this important new offer, certain questions of the Regions could not be addressed for technical and/or budgetary reasons, or due to a lack of potential of new travellers. As regards the transport plan, on 28 October, the Board of Directors of SNCB approved the main lines of the transport plan to be implemented in December 2017. The plan aims to increase supply and improve customer services, including by optimising connections and reducing travel time. Following the validation of the technical feasibility of the proposals, the plan will be put into a concrete timetable which will be finally adopted by the end of this year. The new transport plan will, as of December 2016, improve the S-offer for the connections to Brussels coming from Flanders and Wallonia, and the connections around Antwerp. These are two particularly saturated cities. By December 2017, the global offer will improve by 5% across the country. I come to the investments. In addition to the questions about the offer, there are certain questions raised by the stakeholders. According to SNCB, significant investment is needed in rail infrastructure and cannot be achieved before 2020. It would cause problems if that logic were not followed, as if the TEC or De Lijn were suggesting bus traffic when there are no streets yet. A new transport plan is the result of the investments made in the previous years. The new investment plans which will lead to new infrastructure will in turn contribute to the next transport plan. That logic cannot be reversed. This does not mean that a definitive position has already been taken on the desirability of investment. The debate will take place in the investment cell as soon as Infrabel has communicated its official proposal for a multi-annual investment plan. However, SNCB cannot today draw up a transport plan for December 2017, which takes into account the infrastructure that will be organised in the future. If the new infrastructure is operational, SNCB will draw up a new transport plan to take this into account in its new offer to passengers. The question of investment in railway infrastructure was examined by the technical investment cell without taking into account the available budgets. These will have to be the subject of an analysis in the strategic cell once the official version of Infrabel's and SNCB's multi-annual investment plan has been delivered to us. I repeat that the decision taken by the Board of Directors of SNCB on 28 October 2016 with regard to the 2017 transport plan is a decision in principle. The final decision will be taken in December 2016. It goes without saying that this decision will depend on the availability of the railway infrastructure guaranteed by Infrabel. The concrete implementation of the transport plan depends, in any case, on the availability of the lanes and key elements. In the continuity of ongoing consultations with the infrastructure manager, SNCB will send the current proposals to the former in order to clarify the availability of the necessary lanes and the impact of the works on the network. On the basis of all that information, the Management Board will decide on the final timetable in December 2016. Following final approval by the Governing Council and the political government, in spring 2017, stakeholders will be re-connected via road shows, to which they will be invited, as in 2014 and spring 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u93	Minister, that was a full answer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. If I understand you correctly, it is not the reverse world if a transport plan is drawn up first, without having a look at the multi-annual investment plans. There is a transport plan for it today and you want to play briefly on the ball by adjusting it every three years. That is what you are basing yourself on today's lines. If lines are added, there is a willingness to adapt the transport plan. It's been noted. My question was to what extent the transport plan is a preliminaries on the multi-annual investment plan. In my question I quoted Flemish railway priorities, which are largely Limburg railway priorities, namely lines 15, 18 and 19. Can I conclude that the fact that these priorities are not in the transport plan today is not a negative advance on what will come? In other words, the above lines have the same chance of being included in the Infrabel multiannual investment plan as others? I understand that from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u95	(...) The Regions must inform me of their priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u96	I think it's very clear for Flanders. Minister Weyts is very clear on that. I want to give you a scoop. He replied today in the Flemish Parliament to a number of questions that he fully supported the Limburg lines, which are also Flemish priorities. It is a good thing that the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers is holding consultations. We are asking for this, but I urge you not only to consult out of courtesy, but to take effective account of the priorities put forward by the regions. My conclusion remains that this is the most important news, at least for me, that the lack of these Limburg lines in today's transport plan is not a negative preliminaries to what could come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will not talk about the transport plan in itself. It is indeed a pity that this is now being snowed under by the discussions on the investment plan. I understand that on 30 September, the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers agreed to link all the strategic files of the railways in a package. You're nodding, so I'm assuming this is true. Well, if one of the partners does not comply with that, you must understand that this creates a breach of trust. SNCB approved its transport plan without a ruling on the other strategic railway files. I regret that this is now being drawn on bottles. Of course, the Flemish minister is not going to ask for trains to run by the end of 2017 where there are no tracks yet. You say that De Lijn can't let buses run where there are no streets yet. That is not the point, however. It is about the way in which we work and about the consultation between the Mobility Ministers to which you attach great importance in your policy paper and which agreed to build on a package, a bundling of all strategic railway files, including both the transport plan, the investment plan, the multi-annual investment plan and the management agreements. But now, one of the partners is releasing that bundle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic531x.u98	Mr President, I would like to add a comment myself on the coordination between transport plan and investment plan. That is what this is about in essence. The 2017-2020 transport plan should be based on the available infrastructure anyway, which does not mean that we should give some thought to how both aspects can be reconciled. Does Infrabel do its thing and develop infrastructure, with which SNCB will have to do it, or is it SNCB as a provider of public transport thinking about the gaps in the infrastructure and asking Infrabel to fill the gaps in the infrastructure? In that case, we are working on a different level. Then we are not working on a short-term transport plan 2017-2020 but on a plan with some horizon 2025 or 2030. It would be good to develop a longer-term vision of the needs of our rail network, for example in Limburg and, of course, elsewhere in Flanders and Belgium, as well as the question of where we want to go with the supply of railways. It will then be possible to tailor the investments to be made by the infrastructure manager. This framework should be developed, albeit separately from the operational transport plan, which is presented or implemented in the short term.
