ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u1	Minister, as this issue has already been tabled last January, the situation has changed since then. It concerns the call for nominations for the functions of member and chairman of the IBPT Council. A new procedure for designation to the IBPT Council was established by the Royal Decree of 6 October 2015. To be simple, the new procedure requires candidates to submit their applications to the Selor, which will examine their admissibility. The successful candidates will then have to present an oral examination before a jury after having passed a computerised assessment test. The Board's mission is to establish a list of candidates. A further meeting will then have to be held with you, at the end of which you will report to the Council of Ministers and propose the appointments. You will therefore play a decisive role in this nomination procedure, since you will have to choose between the candidates declared suitable by the Selor. It should be noted that this was not the case in the 2009 procedure, which limited the Minister's discretion. As you always want to depoliticize things, I do not understand why you have such great discretion in this procedure. In addition, according to the January press, the person responsible for the appointment procedure within your firm will be an official of the IBPT. This means that this person is required, upon his return to the IBPT, to work for persons whose appointment he has supervised. In terms of independence and impartiality, this raises many questions. The same press notes that, under the conditions of admissibility of the application, there is no longer any experience in management, even though you blame the IBPT Council for lack of management qualities. This was mentioned again in this committee, not long ago when we heard the entire IBPT council. Mr. Dedecker, you said it and repeated it. Even Mr. Van Quickenborne, who had the skills at one time, said that "the regulator had to do his job and that five years later, nothing had moved." In your answer, you said that you shared your colleague's concern. Van Quickenborne said: "I want to be clear. The IBPT must be closer to the ball, show more energy to work..." So your response has somewhat destabilized the IBPT workers, whom you questioned. Minister, allow me to rest with you the questions that you were asked a few months ago. So, do you consider it to be an official of the IBPT who is responsible, in your firm, for the process of designation? How do you explain that in the conditions of admissibility no longer include management experience, when you have criticized the IBPT Council for missing it? Can you confirm that the Royal Decree of 6 October 2015 laying down the rules for appointment is not the subject of any appeal to the Council of State? If that were the case, this type of recourse could vitiate the entire appointment process that has just begun. The Royal Decree organizing the status of the members of the IBPT Council provides that they must be assessed every two years, according to the wording of 2003 or after two and four years, according to the wording of 2015. Did this assessment take place and what was the result of it? Did you make these accusations in writing, especially those you made in plenary on 14 January? Article 4 of the Order provides that the Selor must inform you of the composition of the selection board and that you must inform the members of the government who have seven days to object. Has this procedure taken place? Have there been any objections from your colleagues? What are the names of the members of this selection board? Finally, I would like to stress once again some of your comments. I quote: "When appointing the new members of the IBPT Council, it is very clear that my priority will be to choose an IBPT that can act more quickly and energetically". Did you have an evaluation done on the effectiveness of this institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u2	Lalieux, until the publication of the Royal Decree of 6 October 2015, there was no uniform regulatory basis for the conduct of the selection procedure for members of the IBPT. This objective royal decree therefore this procedure, so that all participating candidates are treated and evaluated in a uniform and equal manner. Moreover, the procedure does not really differ from that applied for the selection of persons holding leadership positions in other independent institutions, such as CREG, which is a very relevant example. Here are my answers to the questions asked. 1. I would like to point out that it is the King who, after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, appoints the members of the IBPT and not the contact person to which you refer. It is also the Selor who performs the selection procedure and not the contact person. It is also common in the selections of the Selor, that a contact person for a selection is herself part of the institution in question, since he or she is best able to provide the most appropriate information. Of course, this contact person does not take part in the selection process itself. For example, the purpose is to clarify the content of the function description. I want to be very clear; the procedure, the management of the selection is the responsibility of the Selor. The person you refer to is not involved at all. It is only a point of contact to clarify certain things. 2. In addition to the professional experience required of each candidate, management skills are thoroughly examined during the selection process. It is therefore wrong to suggest that the latter do not intervene. 3. To my knowledge, no appeal has been brought to the Council of State. 4. To my knowledge, my predecessor did not organize an evaluation. On the other hand, one may wonder why we are talking about a condemnation of the current team, since, as I mentioned in the introduction, the Royal Decree of 6 October 2015 guarantees the equal treatment of all participating candidates. 5. The Selor procedure is under way. The composition of the selection board is not yet fixed. 6. You will understand that, for obvious reasons and under penalty of possible procedural errors, I cannot answer this question, since it concerns the content of the selection procedure. However, I can point out that this supplementary interview is organised in order to compare candidates on their specific skills and their relational and management abilities, as defined in the job description and in the competency profile in the job to be filled. Finally, I take note of your suggestion, but I would like to point out that only the selection procedure as provided for in the Royal Decree of 6 October 2015 will be followed. The main point is that this procedure is not so exceptional. Indeed, it is comparable to the one in force for CREG, a regulator whose nature is similar to that of the IBPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. Admit that this situation can cause trouble, since we do not know what notes will be transmitted to you by the contact person following the assessment. She will be able to advise you on the results of this. In addition, you intervene in a very visible way. The niche of this government was to depoliticize the appointments to the maximum, but since then they have all been political. The candidate will speak with you in particular. Then you will present it to the Council of Ministers. Agree that this appointment of a regulator looks like complete politicization. The disorder persists. I remember the very hard words that you and one of your predecessors spoke against the work of the IBPT. Therefore, it seems to me that you should let independent boards work and require the assessment of all members, as the law provides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u4	Ms. Lalieux, first of all, the jury is independent. In any case, it will be, since it is not yet constituted. It will establish a list of suitable candidates. Next, your presumption is enormous, as you say that when a minister chooses a candidate, he or she makes a political choice. It is a little quick to make this statement. Perhaps a minister can also select the best candidate. I know that's not in your logic, but it's possible and it's my intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u5	Minister, we'll see if you choose the ones that are best ranked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u6	Madam President, Minister, in response to a parliamentary question, the Minister of Public Health indicated last October that her administration had collaborated with the Internal FPS and the Belgian Institute of Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) in order to create a legal framework that will allow the unified call centre to block malicious calls. An agreement had been reached between the various partners. There was no financial sanction but a blocking of numbers after following a procedure of several warnings. The minister said that this was within the jurisdiction of Mr. From Croo. When I questioned the minister, no Royal Order was finalized. Of course, we cannot accept that people, whether for malicious reasons or for no reason whatsoever, block emergency calls in any way. Another thing is, even after several warnings, to simply block a number. Patients could be banned from 112, resulting in the failure of emergency services to respond to emergencies. There is a pure and harsh responsibility of the State. The idea of a cascading warning reaction is good but between the complete blockage and the series of warnings - and I had already proposed it to Mrs De Block - the police could perhaps intervene since it is possible to identify the place of residence of the persons concerned. Minister, my questions are as follows. What is the status of this royal decree and what about the essential locks that must be guaranteed in this case? Indeed, the State could find itself in a situation of non-assistance to persons in danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u7	Dear colleague, I have not yet received a draft ministerial order. The content of the report is still under discussion between the IBPT and the emergency services concerned following the attacks. The number of malicious calls to 100 and 101 services is currently several hundred thousand per year. Sending an on-site patrol each time diverts resources that should be used to assist people who really need it. Call centres are often overloaded. A temporary blocking could be considered justifiable, after several malicious calls because emergency services are often made inaccessible to people who really need help. This is an option, but we should look at other options. Indeed, I think that, even if this person uses emergency services dozens of times wrongly, blocking it for a certain period of time is running the risk that the same person is in a situation where he or she really needs help. I understand that this is the most direct option, but I think the other options need to be considered. If this were to be done, it would have to be followed closely to judge its effectiveness. We are still in the evaluation phase, but I share your concern. This is a case with a very low probability, but it is still a matter of emergency services and this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u8	Minister, your answer is measured. The statements made last October, six months ago, were very strong. They looked unequivocal, clear, finalized. I find it disturbing that there is still nothing six months after such strong statements. In this case, care must be taken in this case in order not to be found in the case of non-assistance to persons in danger. This is an option that cannot be considered. We cannot, in any way, accept these malicious calls that harm other people and put emergency services in trouble by saturating these numbers. It seems to me that other options are possible to put an end to these repetitive malicious calls. The figures you have quoted are intriguing. I urge you to try to find effective but safe formulas for people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u9	Minister, I submitted my question on 4 February. At that time it was still very topical, because two days earlier, on 2 February, the European Commission had presented its proposal for the coordinated use of the 700 MHz frequency band for mobile services. The Commission proposes that the 700 MHz frequency band be allocated to wireless broadband in all EU countries by 30 June 2020. You are already taking this into account in view of your preparations for the next frequency auction that also includes the 700 MHz band. By 30 June 2017, Belgium should adopt and publish its national network coverage plan and release the frequency band and conclude cross-border coordination agreements by the end of 2017. In the Commission's proposal, digital television via the ether and wireless microphones are given exclusivity in the sub-700 MHz band from 470 to 694 MHz, but they should disclose a piece of the 700 MHz band in conjunction with a flexible approach to spectrum use. The European Broadcasters Union, the federation of broadcasters, already sees the timing for moving digital TV by 2020. In addition, there is a demand from several European PPDR operators (Public Protection and Disaster Relief), such as the ASTRID radio network in Belgium for police, fire and other emergency and security services, to be allocated part of the 700 MHz band for such public safety networks. Today they mainly work with voice and paging, but since last year there is also the Blue Light Mobile data network in Belgium. In the future, communication will be much more data-driven and so much more bandwidth will be needed for the networks. Unfortunately, last month we saw how important it is to have sufficient bandwidth for that kind of priority communication. So that question also came from ASTRID. There will be a need for both own spectrum and opportunities to use the commercial operators as MVNO, as today with Blue Light Mobile. Minister, what position will Belgium take at the European Council on the Commission's proposal? How was that position established and what are the views of the various Communities in this country? As you know, this is an overlapping competence with the Communities. In what way will the government respond to the demand of ASTRID for its own spectrum and the conditions for operators assigned a spectrum in the 700 MHz band? Is the demand for a partial allocation of the 700 MHz band for PPDR across the European Union supported by Belgium to allow economies of scale and interoperability and to have a uniform spectrum for those networks across Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u10	The Belgian position will be determined prior to the European Council in consultation with the Communities through the meeting of the DGE of Foreign Affairs. The release of sufficient spectrum for mobile Internet services can also benefit the Community's media competence in a changing type of media use, which we are already seeing today. The BIPT expects that ASTRID will complement a combination of access to existing mobile networks and access to its own network, for example for rural areas, direct fashion operation and air-ground connections. The BIPT therefore supports the allocation, at European level, of a band for public protection and disaster relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u11	Thank you for your positive reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u12	Mrs Poncelet is not yet here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u13	Madam President, Minister, you replied to an oral question earlier that you refused the recent application for the issue of a MyStamp stamp for the Flemish People's Movement on the basis of the general conditions. These stipulate that stamps should not contain elements of religious, political, philosophical or ethnic nature. Those terms and conditions for the MyStamp have, I believe, not changed since 2009. You have to improve me if I'm wrong about this. Your answer at the time showed that Bpost believes that the use of a completely black Flemish lion and the reference to independence is a clear political position. However, this was not the first application. For years the VVB has used the possibility of ordering those stamps. The previous three designs also contain a lion with a black tongue. In the case of at least one of the approved seals, I quote: 'for independence and cooperation', as was the case with the recently rejected application. In your reply to my written question, you know this to neglect in the past. The general conditions do not apply to the expenditure of the official stamps. Your predecessor, Minister Labille, replied to the question No. 694 from the previous legislature that there are no guidelines for the selection of images and possibly related text on official stamps, even with regard to whether or not implicit moral, political, ethical or ideological messages or propaganda. We see that bpost itself issues stamps containing elements with a political or philosophical purpose. Let me give you some examples. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that these are just examples, without any substantive value assessment. They only illustrate that it is indeed about matters of a political or philosophical nature. First, Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 17 July 2013. A special stamp is created on the occasion of Earth Hour. I believe that this contains a certain political message. One can support this or not, but I do not think it is possible to deny that it contains a political message. Secondly, Article 18 of the KB creates the same stamp again for Earth Hour. Later, on June 7, 2015, a postage stamp will be created on the topic "Purpose tolerance'. You do not hear me arguing against tolerance, but again I think there is a point of view here. The same goes for Think Green. I do not know if you are so in favour of Think Green, if that means the political party. But I suppose there's also a certain philosophy behind it. The mandate and composition of the Philatelic Commission, which is to give an opinion on the issue of these stamps, does not seem to be sufficient to exclude the appearance of seals containing political or philosophical elements. Is it true, Minister, that there are still no guidelines for the selection of images and, if necessary, the accompanying text on official stamps, even for moral, political, ethical or ideological elements? Is it true that the themes of the official stamps described above with philosophical and political elements were proposed by bpost itself? Is it true that the Philatelic Commission gave a positive opinion on the issue of the official stamps described above? Do you think it is appropriate that official stamps should appear containing philosophical or political elements? Do you think it is appropriate that stamps issued in the name of individuals or associations should be subject to strict neutrality rules, while bpost as a public body itself issues official stamps that sometimes contain political and philosophical elements?These are two sizes and two weights. How do you explain that the special stamp around the theme Christmas and New Year, which is published every year, has been replaced by a seal with the theme of the year-end seal for two years? Was there a political element for that? Bearing in mind that similar MyStamp requests from the Flemish People's Movement with a black lion and the mention of the concept of independence were systematically approved in the past, it is no coincidence that there was systematic negligence here. Does the control of the rules show such large gaps or is it arbitrary? So far my question, with my apologies for the length of my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u14	This is valid for everyone. Mrs Galant came every two weeks and I did not accept such lengthy questions. Mr. From Croo coming less often, I still accept them. But you must try to respect the three minutes allotted, otherwise you will no longer have the minister's answer because the incident will be closed before he can give it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u15	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, the programme for the issue of official stamps is being prepared by the Filatelist Commission. The Philatelic Commission does not use any established criteria. The Philatelic Commission wants to add a richness of different themes, which are performed in different styles, so that it is entirely attractive to collectors. In order to keep the whole up-to-date and attractive, there is a connection to social themes that live in Belgium, in all kinds of areas. In any case, neutrality will be preserved and no party political or political views will be taken. To your questions 2 and 3 I can answer that the stamps you mention have indeed come on the initiative of bpost. These stamps, according to them, meet the criteria that the committee uses. As far as your fourth question is concerned, it should be possible for me to have the official postage stamps put forward themes which are widely held in society and which support certain universal values and which maintain neutrality and do not take party political or political positions. Your fifth question, Bpost does not consider that the official stamps contain political or philosophical elements. On your sixth question, I can inform you that the seal you mention has not been replaced. It is still the same edition, which is now described as an end-of-year seal and which therefore covers both Christmas and New Year. For your last question, I refer to my answer to a question you have already put on this subject, namely oral question No. 8067. The MyStamp stamps must comply with the general terms and conditions expressly excluding all themes of or with religious, political, philosophical and ethnic scope. It is true that bpost confirms that if such MyStamp stamps were printed in the past, this is due to negligence in the application of the general terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I think it's kind of weird. You say that neutrality is being applied and that political positions are not being addressed, but only broad social issues. Now we can support Earth Hour, that is not a problem, but that seems to me to be clearly a political appeal. It is a call for political action. The claim that it is a politically neutral story, I dare to dispute. I find that very strange. Again, I am not against that, but I do not think that we can work with two sizes and two weights. Everyone must be equal before the law, especially when it comes to an initiative that comes not from bpost itself, but from private individuals. It is strange that the assessment for individuals is stricter than for bpost initiatives. Such arbitrariness is not possible. I also see a bit of political correctness popping up. For example, a reference to Christmas was deleted. That can be discussed. I find it a little strange to be neutral around Christmas, but not about Earth Hour. I believe that we should be attentive to the propaganda that is being disseminated. In my opinion, neutrality rules apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u17	Madam President, Minister, in early 2015, I was asking you about a request from the municipality of Messancy that its post office be equipped with a ticket distributor. A request was made to the bpost services to that effect. Article 16.7 of the fifth management contract provides that bpost undertakes to ensure the presence of a ticket distributor in all municipalities where this service is not offered by another financial institution. This request was to be considered under the new bpost management contract. You answered this question: "The current investment programme therefore covers the entire duration of the fifth management contract and will be implemented gradually by the end of 2015. Negotiations on the sixth management contract are still under way." So you could not anticipate the content of this management contract at that time, but the project of the new management contract being ready, I would like to return to this issue. Messancy is a municipality of 8,000 inhabitants. Several new businesses have just established themselves and its location close to the borders is interesting. It is essential that it has a ticket distributor. Minister, in the new management contract, is bpost still committed to ensuring the presence of a ticket distributor in all municipalities where this service is not offered by another financial institution? Will the request of the Municipality of Messancy be met under this new contract? In what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u18	Madam President, the sixth management contract which is submitted to the European Commission for approval provides that bpost undertakes to maintain a minimum of 350 ticket distributors in post offices and to ensure the presence of this equipment in all municipalities where this service is not currently offered by another financial institution. It appears that bpost will make every effort to ensure that ticket distributors are accessible during extended schedules outside post office hours, seven days a week. As a result, at least 80 per cent of bpost-installed ticket machines will be available seven days a week between 06:00 and 22:00. Since 1 January 2016, four municipalities have been equipped with ticket distributors: Daverdisse, Herbeumont, Lincent and Baelen. To date, eight municipalities still have to be: Tinlot, Meix-devant-Virton, Erezée, Houyet, Lontzen, Ramillies, Juprelle and Vresse-sur-Semois. As far as the municipality of Messancy is concerned, bpost has no plans to install a ticket distributor. Indeed, Messancy does not enter into the terms of the management contract, given the presence of a ticket distributor in the Cora store located road of Arlon, 200.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's really disappointing. I don't know if you see the configuration of the town, but this supermarket is completely outside the center of the village and doesn't really serve the inhabitants. I would really invite the minister to come back to this position and to encourage bpost to make sure that the municipality of Messancy is really equipped, because it is very disappointing. Or come and see on the spot, but it's really not a good idea to stay there. The centre of Messancy must absolutely be equipped. The Cora distributor is not a service for citizens. I will come back to this issue, because your position needs to change. I see in your face that there may be an open door. I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u20	Minister, the coalition agreement provides for a reform of the market regulators in which intense synergies and cooperation between regulators will be sought. One of the possibilities is even very far-reaching, namely the integration of regulators and the competition authority according to the Dutch model into an authority consumer and market. A first step has been taken at the moment. There's an efficiency exercise going on at BIPT. In October last year the term of office expired from the current board of BIPT. Mrs Lalieux has just applied for this. Firstly, how will you reconcile the renewal of BIPT with the researched integration of market regulators? Secondly, do you provide for a different term of office or a different interpretation of the mandates to be issued? Will you take advantage of the renewal of BIPT to make progress with those synergies to be introduced? Will the new council's mandate be automatically terminated if a new model of integrated regulator is adopted or those persons remain in office, i.e. with an expensive period of overlap in which, in the long run, there are more council members in favour of a regulator than usual? Furthermore, what are the consequences of a possible termination fee in the event of premature termination? What is the impact on the selection and profile of the candidates if they are able to obtain a mandate that may, for that reason, end earlier? They're looking for quite high profiles there anyway. If one knows that the mandate can be terminated earlier, then it will of course have some effect in terms of career planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u21	First of all, I would like to stress that the current mandates ended at the end of November 2015 and that it is not appropriate, on the basis of the principle of good governance, to invoke the service continuity clause until the efficiency exercise ends. The efficiency exercise is planned during this legislature. If the conclusion is that the ex ante regulators need to be merged, it will also require a certain implementation time. In this case, it may be legally foreseen that the mandates cease without further compensation, as the organisation ceases to exist. The principle of Article 61 of the Law of 10 June 2006 on the protection of economic competition could be reused here. The term of office of the President, of the Vice-President, of the two full-time members and of the other members of the Competition Council, appointed in accordance with the provisions of the Act for the Protection of Economic Competition, coordinated on 1 July 1999, shall automatically be terminated on the date of entry into force of the Act. However, the members of the Board referred to in paragraph 1 shall remain in office until they are replaced. I don't have a visual on the profiles of the candidates who applied for BIPT councilman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There will indeed be an implementation time. Thanks also for the clarity by listing the provisions that show that mandates can be terminated if the organisation as it exists today ceases to exist or merges into a new organisation. That immediately provides clarity for the people who can do so. Of course it will have some impact. We will have to see how we are doing so as not to deter the required persons with the necessary qualifications. We will have to find a balance in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u23	Mr President, Minister, bpost recently announced the acquisition of the Belgian activities of Lagardère Travel Retail. This buy-back includes Press Shop libraries, Relay stores and the Kariboo network, which offers parcel pick-up and delivery services at nearby points. Through this takeover, bpost sees an excellent opportunity to diversify and invest in a niche with high growth potential in the national territory. While the company in question is very enthusiastic about this new diversification project, the booksellers and the self-employed are rather reluctant. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to address the following questions. What will be the bpost policy vis-à-vis independent retailers? Is there a risk of bpost skimming the network of self-employed persons to promote the employment of persons under the status of employee? What will bpost change in outlets? Will they, for example, be renovated or relocated? Can you explain the company's intention in this regard? Will new outlets be developed? In addition, bpost has announced that it wants to develop the travel retail? Can you explain what the public enterprise is planning to do in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u24	Mr Vanden Burre, we reversed the order of the questions as you were absent earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u25	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago bpost signed an agreement to buy back the Belgian activities of the French group Lagardère. By getting hold of Lagardère Travel Retail, the public company offers a network of 220 outlets (151 Press Shop, 52 Relay and 17 various shops), 735 pick-up/deposit points of the Kariboo network (mostly concerning e-commerce parcels) and the AMPs (Agence et Messageries de la Presse), the company which provides every morning the 5,500 different newspapers and magazines to the 5,345 booksellers of the country. Although the transaction appears to be due to the expansion of the distribution network represented by such a takeover, many issues may be raised by the Competition Council, which still needs to approve the case. The first concerns the live press sector. Indeed, bpost has received confirmation from the government that it will benefit from the monopoly of distribution of newspapers in mailboxes for subscribers. It will soon also control that of newspapers in bookstores, the other channel of distribution of the press. This dual monopoly can therefore help to influence prices, while the cost of distribution is already very high. At the same time, for the library network, bpost/AMP will be both an essential supplier and a direct competitor of independent bookstores. Lagardère was already. Now, however, it will be a public undertaking. Minister, this context leads me to ask you the following questions. Given the reluctance expressed by Prodipresse (Association of Independent Booksellers), what safeguards are you going to set up so that independent booksellers do not suffer from this new situation, with bpost acting simultaneously as a competitor and supplier? Will this be achieved by privatisation of this company, which is now possible by simple royal decree? Secondly, what impact will the operation have on employment, both for the 598 employees of Lagardère Travel Retail and for the self-employed working in the Press Shop/Relay network? As regards the financing of the purchase of Lagardère Travel Retail by bpost – there is a turnover of 440 million euros and an EBITDA of 15.6 million euros – can you confirm to me that the acquisition will take place in cash and that no capital increase will be necessary or planned in the meantime, as was announced in the press at the time of the announcement of the purchase in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, bpost anticipates that its Retail network (offices and Points Poste) and the Lagardère Travel Retail network (Press Shop/Relay) will retain their specificities and product range. The acquired entities will remain separate entities within the bpost group even if synergies could also be achieved. The completion of the transaction is subject to the agreement of the competition authorities. bpost is actually planning to finance the possible cash operation. Therefore, no capital increase is envisaged to finance the operation. The main objective of the transaction is a diversification of activities. bpost does not aim to expand its current postal distribution network. bpost will continue to be required to provide its services for the distribution of home publications under the tariff conditions set by the Belgian State in the context of the procedure for the award of public service concessions. Indeed, the rates for the distribution of recognized newspapers and periodicals are fixed by the Belgian State in the concession contract with bpost. The possible acquisition of Lagardère will therefore have no effect on the prices of this service. Companies covered by the potential buyback will remain separate entities. Moreover, the acquisition of Belgian activities in Lagardère by bpost is part of a growth and diversification scenario. There will therefore be little negative impact on employment either for Lagardère Retail employees or for the self-employed working in the Press Shop/Relay network. It is certainly not in the intention of bpost to secrete the network of independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will keep an eye on the impact, given the views of the competition authorities. You say that the impact on employment will be low. We will see what is actually going to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u29	Mr President, Minister, founded in 2009, Sigfox is a French company active in the field of connected objects, also known as the "Internet of Things". This new technology can be defined as a network mesh that enables, through standardized and unified electronic identification systems and wireless mobile devices, the direct and unambiguous identification of digital entities and physical objects, and thus the ability to recover, store, transfer and process data between physical and virtual worlds without interruption. Recently, Sigfox and Engie have joined forces to offer a mobile network adapted to this type of device. Unlike current cellular technology (4G), it is a long-distance low-speed infrastructure dedicated exclusively to the Internet of Things. This innovative market is economically very promising. I believe that in the long term, these technologies are a real chance for our companies to modernise their logistics. In Belgium, the southern part of the country is not yet covered, unlike Flanders and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Minister, when new cellular technology is put in place, the coverage is usually gradually extending from urban areas to rural areas, to cover the entire territory. In this case, why does the northern part of the country have good coverage, not the southern part? What are you planning to address this uneven distribution of coverage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u30	My colleague, the Internet of Things is a market that encourages operators to cover the whole territory and not just populated areas, because it aims to manage objects autonomously, also in rural areas where the presence of labour is sometimes difficult and/or expensive. Mobile operators who want to compete with Sigfox with their own LoRa standard are therefore encouraged to cover rural areas to preserve their machine-to-machine market, which will evolve towards the Internet of Things. We therefore have reason to be optimistic about the improvement of coverage in the country in the coming years. If this were not to be the case, however, there remains the possibility of assigning the new 700 MHz and 1400 MHz frequency bands as well as the reassignment of the 2G and 3G bands at the beginning of the next decade.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u31	Mr Minister, I note in any case that in the south there is absolutely no cover while in the north there is a cover. I therefore wonder what strategy is being developed behind this. I can understand that you are not directly concerned. However, there is clearly a problem that needs to be resolved quickly. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 9629 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u33	Minister, the European Commission has awarded the Cloud I contract. It is a first step towards a cloud for your own systems and services. The award means good news for a number of Belgian suppliers, which is always very positive. A number of lottery tickets and parts of tickets were collected by Belgian companies, which is good for tens of millions of euros, which our Belgian economy can use very well. With the project, the European Commission aims to control the costs of storage, bandwidth and computing while at the same time identifying innovative solutions around big data, for example. Those three projects, PrivatInfrastructure as a Service, Public Infrastructure as a Service and Public Procurement as a Service will be rolled out in the coming months. In view of the coalition agreement, these projects can serve as an example for cloud projects in the federal government, namely computerising in collaboration with the private sector, which is a very good source of inspiration. That is why I have a number of questions. Firstly, do you follow up on the European Commission's project? What elements do you consider useful to apply to our government? It is an exemplary approach not to reinvent the hot water itself over and over again, but to use effectively what is available on the market. This can also be done in an efficient way. Secondly, how far is the federal government going with setting up its own cloud services? Thirdly, what is the current government's overarching data centre and cloud strategy? Fourthly, which elements of the G-cloud (Storage as a Service, Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service and Software as a Service) will be developed in collaboration with private partners? Which are awarded to third parties, if necessary on their own initiative? Fifthly, what are the obstacles and obstacles that stand in the way of such projects? Sixthly, given the success of Belgian companies in the award of the European Commission, to what extent is the private market considered as a partner in setting up cloud services? What contacts have already been established? Which projects will be launched? You know that in the past a tender was launched, which was ultimately not awarded. To what extent will this work be resumed in order to strengthen cooperation with the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u34	Mr Dedecker, as far as your first question is concerned, this project is intended for internal use by the EC and related institutions. It is a first pilot project, relatively small-scale with 2 500 virtual machines, which, as far as we know, does not open for use by third parties. The EU used the Enisatools and guidelines so that they could be tested in practical procurement. The experience of this is also useful for us. For the time being, there is little known about the experiences of this exercise. The full service range includes network, server and storage capacity as a service managed by specialists and supported by service guarantees. The first services are already available, including Storage as a Service and Infrastructure as a Service. The g-cloud program will also design joint services of a type Platform as a Service and Software as a Service. As part of the federal redesign, the federal administration will submit a proposal for a comprehensive strategy to the government. It should then be discussed at the Council of Ministers. It has not yet been decided which parts will be developed with private partners. So far no insurmountable obstacles or stumbling blocks have been identified. It takes time for all interested institutions to agree on needs, service levels, security requirements, architecture, governance, funding and suppliers. In addition, there is the lead time of the possible calls for tenders. To what extent is a partner being looked at and set up? In addition to setting up a self-employed service, the provision of services on the private market is already being considered. For example, we have awarded the services Unified Communications as a Service and IT Service Management tool as a Service after a call for tenders to private partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This overall strategy has therefore yet to be drawn up in the context of the redesign. Meanwhile, however, the g-cloud project is running, as it were a bit under the radar. It is not yet within the overall strategy that you want to put forward, but it is already under way and there are things going on that are not always aimed at far-reaching cooperation with the private sector, but rather at working in-house. As Minister responsible for computerisation, I assume that you will speed up the strategy that will be drawn up in the context of the redesign, not reinventing hot water, but reusing as much as possible what is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u36	In the area of redesign, we do know which direction we are working in. It is mainly about centralising a number of support services and preventing duplication. As mentioned above, the G-cloud project is open to private sector partners. That's how they're working it out today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u37	Minister, the pylon tax of the Walloon region is now a very old one and clearly weighs on the telecoms market in Wallonia. Since this tax affects all national telecom operators, it also, of course, provides funding for the Walloon Region at the expense of the operators and thus also for all consumers, including the Flemish, are numerically the most numerous. So with this tax an additional money transfer is organised from Flanders, hence my questions. What is the effect of the Walloon pylon tax on the value of the spectrum? You are in the process of assessing the spectrum in the context of the renewal and auctioning of the licences. If one has to place pylons on which a tax is levied in order to use that spectrum, that reduces the valorisation of that spectrum. What revenue do the BIPT and the federal state risk losing by skimming the value by the Walloon pylon tax? In other words, what transfer is being made from the federal government to the Walloon government? What is the impact of the Walloon pylon tax on telecom investment? You know that Base has made all the public statement that people will not invest too much there, given the high costs. What is the state of the discussions on this tax between the federal government and the Walloon government? A long time ago, you announced a discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u38	In the study on the calculation of the value of the spectrum, Anallysys Mason did not take into account the pylon load. There is therefore no data on such an impact. Mobile operators have communicated that the regional tax on mobile pylons would place a heavy mortgage on the roll-out of the new 4G technologies and could have an impact on the performance of the current networks. Operators are willing to invest the amount of the tax in improving the coverage and quality of their network if the regional tax is abolished. I hope to convince the Regions in the coming months that a pylon tax goes against the economic interests of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u39	Mr Minister, it is a pity and also strange that Anallysys Mason did not take up the pylon tax, given the clear communication of the operators and the amount involved. You hope to convince the Regions not to opt for short-term money gains, but for a sustainable approach, involving more quality services that will eventually generate more economic added value and thus, of course, more revenue. I don't know if I should be so hopeful. You have that ambition. You had it in the past, but I note that people are not moving in the desired direction on the other side of the language line, from my point of view. So I do not know whether you have any idea whether your powers of persuasion will help or whether you will have to come forward with other arguments or possibilities. At the moment, I'm not very hopeful about that. I hope there's still something else possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u40	Mr Geerts is not yet present for his questions. 9693 and No. 10668. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 9764 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u41	Minister, as the federal government is likely preparing to privatize Proximus and the press reports rumours about restructuring within the company, negotiations between unions and management have officially begun. These discussions must lead to an agreement to conclude a voluntary starting plan for more than 3,000 people. In this way, Proximus intends to reduce its payroll significantly. Statutory jobs are the first to be affected because these workers are considered to be more expensive and less flexible than contract workers. The ongoing negotiations concern two separate social plans as well as a new collective labour agreement. The first plan would concern the departure of statutory staff over 58 years of age, while the second plan would affect statutory staff over 60 years of age. Minister, what are the expectations of Proximus management with respect to these two social plans? What are the expected budgetary and financial results of such reorganizations? Can you give us more information on the two social plans under negotiation? What are Proximus management's intentions regarding the new collective agreement? What new measures does management want to include? What is the position of the unions in relation to these two social plans and this new collective labour agreement? When is the end of the current negotiations expected? How many jobs will be affected by these reorganizations in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u42	Minister, on the sidelines of the presentation of the Proximus Group's excellent results on February 26th, the company's management announced that it had reached an agreement in principle with the unions on early retirement at the age of 60 and on a collective labour agreement. Under the pretext of necessary cost reductions in order, I quote, to "invest in our networks and make Belgium digital", this plan leaves the possibility for employees at least 60 years of age to take pre-pension leave against 75% of their salary. This salary will continue to be paid by Proximus and the workers will only take their pension after reaching legal age. So it's not a pre-pension. "Social security will be paid on the basis of 100% of the salary," Proximus added in a statement. This plan could affect 1,300 people over the next three years and is expected, according to Proximus, to reduce the operator's salary costs from 31% of its turnover to 28% in 2018. Finally, 200 workers, mostly statutory and now "reconversionary", will also be able to benefit from this system, but this time from the age of 58. Given the current economic context, in which older workers have the worst difficulties finding their marks and being valued on the labour market, such a signal sent by a major player in the Belgian economic world is obviously regrettable, especially since Proximus is still predominantly owned by the State and announced extremely positive economic results at this meeting last February. According to the media, the approval of this agreement is at the federal level. Could you explain the reasons for this blockage? Why was the agreement not validated in the Council of Ministers on 26 February? If there is really a need to reorganise staff at Proximus and a willingness to engage new profiles, could we not imagine other options, for example, that older workers gradually reduce their working time and pass on their experience to newly engaged young colleagues? In other words, if this agreement is validated, some of the older workers will leave the company while being paid. Could this experience not be used to explore other options? Would it not be a shame to separate from these thousands of 58- and 60-year-old workers, when they have a lot of skills to pass on to young recruits and could still be extremely useful to the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u43	I said from the beginning that Proximus will have to bear the cost of any restructuring itself. This position was previously agreed by the entire nuclear cabinet. In the present plan this is the case and all financial costs related to betting and employers' contributions for the pension are fully borne by Proximus. The invoice is therefore not passed on to society. The government will review Proximus's plan after its final adoption. At present, Proximus and representative trade union organizations are still negotiating the starting plan and the collective agreement. It is true that an agreement in principle was reached on 25 February 2016. The representative trade union organisations must now submit the starting plan and collective agreement to their bodies and members. It is therefore premature to disclose the details. In any case, since the departure plans are based on voluntary departures, I cannot yet provide any figures on the number of people who will subscribe to them. For this reason, it is premature to provide information on the number of workstations that will be impacted in 2016. However, based on a preliminary estimate by Proximus, approximately 1,300 people may choose to voluntarily leave the company by the end of 2018. Some have valuable expertise. Proximus' estimate, in a sector where technological change is very rapid, says that at the level of sharing of experience in the company itself, the possibilities are rather small. But, and this has been important in all the discussions, there is a transfer program. Currently, a person who works at Proximus can enter a program to be transferred to other federal government departments. On the government's side, we stress that this existing program must be part of the overall package and that much more proactive communication is needed about it than is currently the case. It is possible that, in the company, these people are experiencing a situation where their experience is difficult to value. This does not mean that they do not have any other experience that can be used in other sectors. We can see that there are other sectors at the federal level where there is a demand for people who can join the labour force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u44	Minister, as far as temporality is concerned, this will be communicated by the unions to the affiliates, but when do you estimate the end of the process? Since there's been an agreement, there'll be a communication. According to your information, do you think this will be done by the end of June, before the period of great school holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will indeed be attentive to the position of the government, as soon as the unions have validated or not validated the whole agreement. As far as all these experienced workers are concerned, you say that a transfer program exists to other federal government departments. This can be an interesting option. In this case, is this part of the plan, that is, that Proximus continues to pay them during their secondment to the federal state? Or is it a total transfer to another payroll, another employer? However, I am still hungry. I am indeed surprised that there is not, on the part of the federal government, since the state is still a majority shareholder of Proximus, a willingness to say to Proximus: "Since you are willing to pay 75% of the salary, can we not do better than send these people home?" In fact, what signal does this give in relation to the labour market? However, we know how complicated it is to reconvert for people over 50, 58 or 60 years of age today. It's really a missed opportunity. We will continue to follow this issue very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u46	Mr Devin, I hope this will happen before the summer. With respect to the transition program, it is accompanied by a financial incentive if one chooses to do so. I cannot answer the payroll question today. This will be communicated to you in writing. I know that an incentive is provided for people who join this program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u47	It's an option for everyone. It is the workers themselves who decide whether or not to enter this programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u48	If Mr Vanden Burre agrees, I propose to be a gentleman and let Mr Geerts ask his question. We will try to answer as many questions as possible before the minister leaves at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u49	Both at Test Purchase and at the Ombudsman for Telecom have apparently received a number of complaints about paying SMS services or online mobile commerce, which are charged to customers without having asked for the services. Both organisations demand better protection by the operators. I checked the royal decree of February 9, 2011. That royal decree restricts such text messages in an ethical code. There may also be an additional update, as suggested by the Ombudsman. Especially about Proximus.................................................................................................................................................... Minister, what action will you take to respond to the Ombudsman's comments, namely that operators should better protect their customers? The Royal Decree with the Ethical Code of 2011 can be updated. Is that update planned? Has the ethics committee provided any comments or advice on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u50	As I announced earlier, the following law will contain several provisions which prevent operators from concluding the full telecom contract when there is only a dispute about the charging of third party services, including, for example, paying SMS services. In the context of the revision of the Royal Decree on Numbering, I have already commissioned greater transparency on the allocation of numbers to third parties. Finally, exploratory discussions are ongoing on additional measures following the findings of the public service in its 2015 annual report. The updating of the Code of Ethics is a point in the coalition agreement. I intend to implement that point during the current legislature. At the beginning of the current legislature, the ethics committee drew up a memorandum containing an opinion on the issues to be dealt with as a matter of priority in a reform of the ethical code. I asked the committee to put forward concrete proposals to modernise the ethical code and make it more relevant in the light of recent developments, including mobile payment services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u51	Minister, I will await the law on various provisions. I also look forward to the opinion of the ethics committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u52	Deputy Prime Minister, since 2011, we have seen at bpost an important turnover in the "low cost factors". Indeed, the figures are challenging: between 2011 and 2015, 3,774 auxiliary factors left bpost. These agents are the factors that deal only with the distribution of mail and are exempt from technical tasks such as sorting. We are talking about turnover or rotation of staff because over the same period, between 2011 and 2015, bpost engaged 6,000 auxiliary factors. This rotation seems rather abnormal. Annual departures are estimated at between 659 and 894 each year. There is therefore a problem of employment stability for the factors employed under this status. Deputy Prime Minister, can you explain to us what is due to this important turnover of auxiliary factors at bpost? What are their working conditions compared to those of a statutory factor? What measures are you considering to limit this rotation of auxiliary staff at bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u53	Mr President, first of all, it should be noted that the role of distributor requires special provisions as well as often underestimated physical skills. On the other hand, the profession of distributor is sometimes a first step in the world of work for some young people who, with this first experience, subsequently move to other occupations. bpost is therefore not surprised that many people decide after a time to leave the company. However, the number of departures is decreasing compared to the total number of ancillary factors currently in operation in the company - just under 6,000 at the end of 2015. With regard to your question concerning working conditions, I refer to your oral question No 5238 of June 2015. Since 1 January 2010, bpost has been applying new wage conditions, scales and other benefits in accordance with the legal provisions in force, after complying with the social consultation provided for in its statutes. These wage conditions have been improved several times in favour of these ancillary factors since January 2010. In order to limit the number of departures, bpost carries out several actions: firstly, the information provided before the candidate's engagement allows him to identify the profession with all its facets; secondly, bpost attaches more importance to the reception, training and supervision of the new employees; and finally, thanks to the support of an experienced coach, the new employees carry out a training journey providing different periods of follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u54	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u55	Minister, in 2021, much of the licences granted to operators for the use of certain spectrum will expire. The latest allocations had raised more than 220 million euros to the State. The IBPT has therefore launched a study to identify the best way to reorganize the licensing process. The objective of this study is to provide a sound economic basis for the federal government to estimate the price to be charged to operators for these 20-year licences. Minister, what is the IBPT's advice on reorganizing the licensing process? Can you tell us the approximate price that will be charged to operators? On what basis was this price fixed? How much does the federal government hope to receive from this operation? What is the time frame for launching the new licensing procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u56	Mr Devin, a legal analysis notes that there are three options. The first option is an extension of licences, which is not explicitly excluded by European legislation, but which is not certain to be authorised under the European principle of open procedure. Another option is the organisation of an auction, which fully meets the principle of an open and transparent procedure. Finally, a hybrid auction: spectrum could be reserved for existing operators. The study by Analysys Mason estimated, on the basis of an economic model, the value of the global spectrum available for allocation to a minimum amount of 703 million euros. The distribution key between the federal government and the Communities was 80-20 for the 800 MHz band. In order to give mobile operators sufficient visibility, it is desirable that this procedure, for existing licences, be closed in 2017 or 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u57	Minister, thank you for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u58	Minister, as announced last year, the installation of the new bpost mailboxes is about to begin. With technology to better combat flights, the new boxes will be installed gradually, according to the priority criteria decided by the public company. According to the first information published in the press, the slot by which you can drag your shipment will now be on the side and on the top of the box. It will therefore no longer be possible to slip your hand there in order to recover a shipment that has just been posted. Minister, in addition to the change mentioned above, can you detail the main features of these new mailboxes? How many of these new boxes will be installed in 2016? Can you tell us in which cities these will be installed in the first place? On the basis of what bpost criteria has it decided on the order of priority of the boxes to be replaced? Can you tell us how soon the replacement of all the postal boxes on Belgian territory will be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u59	Mr Devin, at present the network of red bpost mailboxes consists of 13,000 boxes. bpost is currently working to modernize the security of this network. On the one hand, the existing mailboxes will be equipped with a new electronic lock. This is about 2,400 boxes. The installation will be completed in August 2016. On the other hand, red mailboxes of a new type will be gradually introduced into the network. This new type of mailbox will be equipped, in a standard way, with an electronic lock in the shape of a notch on the side face. These boxes will be more robust than those used today. They will have internal security to protect their content and meet the highest security standards. By the end of 2016, some 2,500 red mailboxes will be either of the new type or equipped with an electronic lock. This program is underway in the mail centres of Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Malines, Vilvorde, Namur, Liège and Charleroi. bpost will take over, as a matter of priority, high-risk mailboxes (nature of mail, vandalism, attempted or suspected theft, condition of the current mailbox). The programme will run over several years and will be continuously adapted to new needs or situations on the ground. An end date has not yet been set.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u60	Minister, thank you for all the information you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u61	Minister, during the month of March, two pilot projects aimed at assigning new tasks to factors were experienced: the first in Roulers, with the taking of pictures of town planning panels to verify compliance and the second in Ostend for surveys on the needs of seniors registered with the CPAS. Moreover, in Antwerp, bpost vans are now equipped to carry out air quality measurements for the National Geographical Institute. We are also talking about running the races of people who are isolated or pre-carried. Finally, the CEO of bpost, Koen Van Gerven, recently confirmed that a team was in-house thinking about new ideas in the same direction, i.e. making new services available to factors by taking advantage of their daily contacts with the population. It is in this context, Mr Minister, that I would like to ask you the following questions: what is the evaluation of the pilot projects carried out in Roulers and Ostend in terms of the satisfaction of the citizens, the commune and the factors? How is the payment of such additional services organised? Are they carried out on a case-by-case basis, directly between bpost and the municipality concerned? What other tasks are envisaged in the diversification of tasks performed by the factor? On what basis and on what objective basis are these new tasks decided? Do they follow consultations between the municipalities? Are there specific requests from the municipalities or institutions in this area? Are the factors systematically consulted and are their views taken into account? Are they comfortable performing a particular task? Are there any satisfaction surveys conducted in relation to the factors? Do specific trainings accompany these new functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u62	Dear colleague, one of the elements of bpost's strategy to compensate for the decline in the volume of traditional mail is to develop new products and services that exploit the assets already available to the company. One of these advantages is unique, namely that business factors pass every day in front of all dwellings. We are therefore looking for opportunities to better value this proximity. It is in this context that collaboration with the Ostend CPAS and the municipal services of Roulers must be established. There is not yet a final evaluation for Roulers. In Ostend, the evaluation was positive for all stakeholders. This is indeed a link of direct collaboration between bpost and the municipalities, which is accompanied by the conclusion of a contract. The tasks taken into account are activities that correspond to the profile of the factor. They are also integrated into the ordinary tasks of the factor. These additional tasks can vary greatly: completing investigations, removing signed contracts and delivering races, taking a photo of an application for a town planning permit, etc. Before such a new task is accepted, a thorough consultation is held with the staff. In addition, training is provided each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u63	Minister, this system is interesting in principle. Factors may be asked to perform other functions. This permanently anchors the factor's role as a social link, present daily to our fellow citizens. These interesting new tasks will, however, have to be accompanied by continuous feedback from the factors themselves. We will follow these developments carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u64	Minister, at the end of last year, you announced in your general policy note for 2016 "to give a modern interpretation to the concept of universal service". Universal postal service guarantees a significant number of services to citizens at an affordable price, regardless of where they are in the country. More generally, the goal of universal service is to reduce inequalities between citizens. Among the guaranteed services, the distribution and lifting of mail five days a week is a principle enshrined not only in our law but also in Directive 97/67/EC on postal service. Article 3 ensures that "Member States shall take measures to ensure that universal service is guaranteed at least five working days a week". However, the Directive allows exceptions to this principle in circumstances or geographical conditions deemed exceptional. To date, the interpretation of this exception has never allowed Belgium to permanently challenge the distribution and lifting of mail five days a week in certain regions. Indeed, given the density of the population and the absence of significant reliefs on our territory, it can legitimately be assumed that this exception has been inserted for other States whose territories are more isolated by oceans or mountains. However, your services are currently busy drafting a new postal law that must "modernize", in your own words, the concept of universal service. Minister, how do you interpret the exceptions in the directive? Do you intend to "modernise" the interpretation of the exceptions provided for in the European Directive with regard to the number of days of lifting and distribution of mail? Do you intend to argue at European level for an amendment to the directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u65	Mr Devin, the law of 21 March 1991 does not provide for this possibility of derogation in the event of exceptional geographical circumstances or conditions. The next law on postal services is still in preparation and nothing is decided on the scope of universal postal service. The European Commission has already indicated that it is not taking any steps to revise the Postal Directive at this time. It's a very short answer, but I don't have much more to say right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u66	Minister, in a previous response, you were waiting for the unions to inform the affiliates. Here, you are waiting to have decided to inform us of the actual content of the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u67	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u68	We come to item 28 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u69	Mr President, the committee secretary told me that, as Roel Deseyn had to wait, we could address this issue this afternoon. This is good for me, even if I am available right away, unless the minister announces that he will have to leave after the second reading. In other words, I really want to ask my question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u70	As long as Mr. Minister is present in Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u71	Mr. President, everything is fine with me! What wouldn't I do for the CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u72	The Secretary informed me that an agreement had been reached that questions No. 10303 by Mrs Catherine Fonck on "the cessation of broadcasting of the KTO channel on Proximus TV" and No. 10668 by Mr. David Geerts on "priority users during saturation of the network in the event of a crisis and the assessment of connection problems after the attacks of 22 March 2016" would be put forward this afternoon. Is that right, Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u73	Yes, Mr. Chairman: after second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u74	These are therefore points 28 and 29 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u75	Mr President, I would like to put the question under item 29. I have a ship's college this afternoon, because I'm still one of those cumulaards. I've come here specifically to ask that question. At 11:00, I get a text message that these questions are asked afterwards, but it is difficult to change my agenda suddenly. I know that the Minister also attaches great importance to local policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u76	What are you proposing, Mr. Geerts? I cannot blame the Deputy Prime Minister for this: he is here this morning and in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u77	I don't know if my colleague Calomne is in the house. Maybe he can be notified? I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u78	We will contact Mr. Calomne for an answer. Until then, I propose that you do not waste time so that we encourage those who are present. Does that suit you, Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u79	Yes, Mr President: otherwise I can answer Mr Geerts' question and we will talk about the others later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u80	Mr. President, I can call Mr. Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u81	Call him! In the meantime, since the spirit is open and the collaboration is constructive, I propose that you give the floor to Mr. David Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u82	Mr President, Minister, some time ago, in response to one of my questions about network coverage in rural areas, you told me that an additional coverage obligation had been granted to Mobistar, which aims to achieve 4G coverage of 98% in 60 municipalities by the end of 2016. These are the so-called "technology backward communities". Minister, the deadline is approaching. What is the status of the implementation process requested from Mobistar? What steps have already been taken by the operator? What 4G coverage, both outside and inside, is currently provided by this operator in the 60 municipalities mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u83	Mr Clarinval, according to data provided by Mobistar to the IBPT, the overall out-of-building population coverage rates for these 60 municipalities are currently 99.44% in 2G (gsm), 89.43% in 3G (UMTS) and 86.76% in 4G (LTE). The values quoted are average rates weighted by the number of inhabitants of the municipality, calculated for all these municipalities. The IBPT is not aware of Mobistar's efforts to meet its obligations. The IBPT will carry out measures in these municipalities to check that the obligations imposed on that operator are actually fulfilled. You talked about external and internal coverage, but the current definition is an external measure, since the internal measurement is very dependent on the structure of the buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u84	Mr Minister, we are therefore talking about external coverage which, for the municipalities in question, is 86% for 4G (I am not talking about 2G). The situation is therefore still very bad for these famous 60 late communes. I would like you to put pressure on Mobistar to comply with the conditions laid down in the management contract and that by the end of this year there should be a coverage of 98% in 4G in the 60 communes and, if possible, inside. I know that it is difficult to take into account the situation inside, but anyone who has already had a gsm in hand knows very well that, when you have to go out to phone, the communication is not satisfactory. I insist that Mobistar received a lower market price for this licence. They should therefore fulfil their commitments, including effective coverage for rural areas. I thank you, in any case, for paying attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u85	Mr President, in an interview published in Le Soir on 18 October 2015, Walloon cable operator Nethys (Voo) considered that, because of the opening of the cable in Mobistar on conditions which he considered too favourable for the latter, he was forced to abandon his investment projects in the Walloon white areas. These white Walloon areas comprise the same sixty communes. Already considered to be weakly profitable, these projects would have become investments at a loss, now that Voo must open up access to competitors. And Le Soir asks the following question: "Are we moving towards a two-speed Wallonia, with very profitable regions where operators are going to confront, and abandoned areas?" If the vast majority of homes did not have functional internet access, sufficient access to carry out e-mail exchange and traditional web navigation, we might indeed fear that such a two-speed Wallonia situation would offer us. At present, however, with a few exceptions, it turns out that every citizen is entitled to a minimum of technological comfort. The picture is therefore not so black, but there is still a long way to go to reach the universal service ideal as defined in European Directive 2002/22/EC, which stipulates that any citizen who requests it must be able to benefit from quality services at a reasonable cost, taking into account the technological feasibility. In order to fill the technological gaps that persist in some white areas today, it seems to me important to recall that it is necessary to proceed in stages. The first is, in my view, to carry out a rigorous mapping of services, by supplier and by technology, taking into account the facilities present, in order to accurately point the damaged areas. It will then be necessary to provide rational solutions adapted to each area. Minister, what strategies do you intend to implement in the short term to address the problems that persist? Are you planning to have a precise mapping done on this subject, in addition to the atlas developed by the IBPT? Are you open to the idea of replacing large-scale strategies with case-by-case solutions? Through mapping, I intend to break the current divides and move on to collaboration with the Regions and regional operators. In this way, we could jointly implement solutions for the most underserved communities in telecommunications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u86	Dear colleague, I share your view that mapping the coverage of the network is a fundamental first step in achieving efficient Internet access for all. This is also the first measure I propose in my plan for a very high-speed internet in Belgium. This exercise is almost complete. The mobile atlas, which has been available on the IBPT website since July 2015, will soon be complemented by a fixed atlas giving, at the level of the 2,664 sub-municipals of the Kingdom, the approved coverage rate for four distinct speeds: 1, 30, 60 and 100 megabits per second. It is clear that with regard to fixed access, I intend to have a concertation with certain cable operators because it is clear, especially in Wallonia, that a significant part of the cable is not bidirectional. I was quite surprised to see that much of the cable is still analog. There is therefore a lack of competition with regard to access to fixed internet. On the mobile side, mobile licenses already include coverage requirements. Proximus, Mobistar and Base Company must, from the date of the start of the validity of the user fees, at least meet the following Belgian population coverage rates: 70% by 30 November 2017, 98% by 30 November 2019. In addition, Mobistar has a special obligation to cover: it must guarantee by 30 November 2016 a coverage of 98% of the population of underserved municipalities. As part of the new 4G licences to be auctioned in 2017, we will investigate whether these additional requirements are necessary. Finally, the transposition of the European Directive 2014/61/EC aims to increase the use of existing infrastructure and to reduce deployment costs. I note that the existence of pylons taxation clearly does not help to develop coverage in sparsely populated areas. This is part of everyone's skills, but if we want to have the best possible coverage, including in less populated areas and where economic activity is less, a tower tax does not help! I intend to try to have a discussion with the Regions on this. I think it is crucial, from a socio-economic point of view, to have maximum mobile coverage. A pylons tax clearly goes against this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u87	Minister, thank you. First of all, mapping is the real basis. I am pleased to hear that it will be put in place soon. Then I invite you to follow the bottom-up strategy. In other words, top-down solutions should not be imposed. The municipalities concerned by the white areas must be consulted. In addition, adequate solutions need to be developed, because some municipalities are well served - such as my municipality, which benefits from 4G - while I know two small villages that are not. Operators must take their pilgrim stick, meet representatives of the 60 underserved municipalities and develop a specific strategy with them and the Region. It is then necessary to realize that the inhabitants concerned are victims of double punishment, since the service offered to them is of lower quality, but in addition they do not have access to the tariff packages. So the service is both bad and more expensive. I find this really vexatious. I will not go back to Mobistar's question, which I discussed earlier. In any case, we agree that it is not by taxing the towers that we are going to seduce the operators. Therefore, the Region will certainly have to review its copy. In any case, I hope that during the consultations they will adopt a more intelligent attitude in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u88	Mr Vanden Burre, I suppose you don't mind if we move on to the joint questions of Mrs Fonck et al., because I know you've been here this morning and you've been acting like a gentleman with everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u89	Minister KTO TV, the reference Catholic French-language television channel, has learned of Proximus' unilateral and unannounced decision to cease broadcasting as of May 1. This decision was apparently taken without any prior consultation and was not the subject of any reasons. The mobilization was very strong and resulted in a positive outcome last night. Indeed, Proximus decided to reverse, which is excellent news. How good is the mobilization! This was important because this decision to remove KTO would deprive tens of thousands of people of access to a unique information media in our audiovisual landscape. KTO is the only Catholic news channel exclusively funded by donations. This channel is particularly important for people who have difficulty moving to live their spirituality or who do not have a computer to follow the channel on the net, since Proximus was referring to the net. If I take the side of defending this channel and its diffusion by Proximus, it is because it contributes to the pluralism of our media and to the right of everyone to live their spirituality. The mobilization was great, as Jews, Muslims, Protestants and Orthodox were not mistaken, and those responsible largely signed the petition. And if tomorrow, Radio Judaïca, in turn, were to be deprived of broadcasting, I would be the first to defend them, not because I share their faith or editorial line, but because I believe that Radio Judaïca contributes to pluralism, to the diversity of spirituality and ideas and that it must, as such, be defended. While Proximus is a private company, its shareholder is predominantly public, which gives the government a real influence on the decisions it makes. On the other hand, I felt that Proximus' decision was totally incomprehensible. First of all, is this an argument of lack of space on the cable? KTO occupies 0.03% of the available space and before even removing KTO, Proximus had just welcomed new channels much more greedy in terms of space. Was it for a reason of hearing? It must be noted that 88% of the channels broadcast by Proximus share less than 10% of the audience. So the differences between the small chains are infinitesimal. Was it KTO's ability to attract subscribers to Proximus? It seems to me that KTO's capacity is probably much higher than that of adding a twenty-ninth children's channel, since KTO responds to a need of tens of thousands of subscribers, both in the north and south of the country. In my view, this seemed to be an expression of a desire to exclude a Catholic channel, yet open to dialogue with other denominations. Last night, Proximus made a volte-face, which I welcome. I am delighted that the mobilization was able to lead to this decision. Now it remains to be finalized. Minister, I have been asking my question for weeks now. If I wanted to question you despite the decision taken by Proximus, it is because it gives me the opportunity to ask you, as a majority shareholder, to assure you that this decision will be implemented and sustained. In any case, we should be aware that if this were not to happen, we would not fail to return to this point and that we would proceed to a new mobilization. Indeed, I am convinced that the defence of pluralism and ideas is fundamental to our society, even more so today in the light of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u90	Minister, I agree with what Mr Fonck said. Public enterprises have a different attitude than traditional ones, otherwise there should be no distinction. With this special role, with the autonomy that we must respect, we must be able to debate a varied and pluralistic media offering, which is a real asset for our society. In that sense, it is strange that the transmitter KTO entered the tribulation, when Proximus announced the intention to remove the transmitter from the digital offer. In the wide digital range, there must certainly be room for the smaller players. However, this is not a very small player. That is also an important element of the discussion. KTO says that, apart from the important ideological pluralism story about the figures, it turns out to be extremely difficult to get those figures on the table. However, when one sees the totality of the offer, there is certainly room for a transmitter with that meaningful interpretation. This channel is not only an expert in Catholic religion, but is also working hard on interreligious dialogue, which is not insignificant in the light of current events in Belgium. Mr Minister, perhaps I can convince you, if that is still necessary, in the light of some of yesterday's announcements. As far as I am concerned, these do not seem to me to be definitive, but there is still some confusion as to whether or not the communiqué stands. If we look at it economically, you are a great supporter of crowdfunding. Well, that transmitter works with a lot of small contributions from a lot of members, including Belgium. If we look at it that way, this initiative must be given every opportunity and consistent policies must be pursued. It is also a transmitter that is still in full development. There is a petition with more than 25 000 signatures, which is something if one looks at it in the light of sometimes very marginal media phenomena, which also get some bandwidth. What role do you see for Proximus, when it comes to the various offerings? What criteria are used to evaluate the composition of digital channels? If there is a capacity problem, we should actually conduct the entire investment debate on Proximus. A roll-out of the entire fiber network would certainly guarantee the necessary capacity. So it is also about the bigger story, about whether there is no capacity to give smaller initiatives a chance. These initiatives must compete very hard with over the top players and we need them in our society in terms of diversity and pluralism. What is the rough estimate of net costs and the average number of viewers per region? It would be very good to get the figures of KTO specifically to finally get out of that discussion. I'd like to get an insight into the evolution of the ratings from 2011 to today. In this way we can have a better rational discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u91	At the beginning of this year and following an analysis of all its content, Proximus had informed KTO TV of its wish to stop its distribution by 30 April for technical and economic reasons. Due to limited technical capacity, choices and assessments must be made on a regular basis based on costs and audience rates. Partly because, as Proximus says, low ratings were decided that KTO could not be retained in the offer. This was communicated to the viewers, who could continue to follow the programmes via ktotv.com in streaming service. Although a limited number of people look at KTO, Proximus listens to its customers and Proximus remains sensitive to their reactions, which clearly indicated how important the transmitter is to them. That's why Proximus decided to keep the KTO TV channel in its Proximus TV base offering after April 30th. The exact number of viewers and their nature is information that Proximus finds commercially sensitive and therefore does not wish to share. The most important step that can be taken is to make sure that one looks at the transmitter. Digital TV follows the effective viewing, the ratings are counted in a different way. This is the only call I can make: make sure it's checked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u92	Minister, I find that the reasons given by Proximus are not on the road. I have already given you a whole series of figures on the technical and economic aspects, as well as on the space on the cable and on the audience. Do you know that 90% of Proximus' audience is provided by 12% of channels? This means that 10 percent of the audience is made by 88% of the channels, including KTO. So, if I'm told that KTO's hearing is not important – we still haven't heard the numbers – I'm telling you that 88% of the channels proposed by Proximus have a similar audience. We are not going into a technical debate. I just want to tell you this. The volte-face took place and that's so much better! We need to see things positively and look to the future, tomorrow and the day after. The aim is to fully implement this decision to extend KTO. In the future, the government must also pay particular attention to maintaining spaces for peaceful and in-depth dialogue on religious issues and the free expression of diversity. Our society has a serious need and a cruel need. Your responsibility for this, especially as Minister and as the majority shareholder of Proximus, is full and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u93	Mr Minister, you are talking about low ratings, but we are not really sure about those figures. I regret that it is now being screened with the argument that it is a matter of commercially sensitive information. Just look at what's being communicated over media coverage. KTO has produced an interesting dossier on this subject. There's a lot of information about viewers, percentages, for all sizes. Then one is no longer detailed about the little ones. Why is the information so commercially sensitive? 95% of the market share is communicated in very detailed terms, while little people are not allowed to say anything about them, because this information would be particularly sensitive. That's just not true. Every sane person knows that this is absolutely not sensitive information in relation to the information that has been disclosed. You say watching is enough. This is, of course, the big question: looking is enough, if the figures are pushed up slightly and if we are not allowed to discuss the figures. Quantity isn't everything, I'd say. It is not because there are many viewers for two or three channels that the value of such an initiative would be intrinsically reduced. I welcome the turn that the company has taken and the fact that it can be discussed today and that you have given that explanation, but I do think there should be a real open discussion where all the elements are put on the table. I am sorry that so far it seems that they do not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u94	Minister, I would like to ask you a question about primary users at times of network saturation due to a crisis. The recent terrible attacks revealed that the mobile network was rapidly colliding with its limits. Proximus and Mobistar saw the number of calls doubled, Telenet tripled. The network wasn't prepared for that sudden surge and got saturated. The telephone number of the Crisis Centre also remained unreachable until it was given priority by the telecom operators. People were advised to text as much as possible or use the mobile internet. Just before and during a crisis, and in order to reduce its impact, the government needs to be able to communicate with the population. We have already discussed this in detail here after the Pukkelpop drama. New definitions concerning priority users have been introduced by the previous government in the Telecom Act 2012. A new article was inserted to regulate the list of priority users in crisis conditions through a Royal Decree. The Royal Decree would also specify which services should be given priority by telephone, SMS and data when overloading the network. I come to my questions, Minister. These royal decisions, both concerning priority users and the priority services referred to in the Telecom Act 2012, have not yet been taken. What is the state of play in the preparation of these royal decrees? What is the concrete timing for the implementation of these royal decrees? You rightly asked the operators for a thorough analysis of the network problems following the attacks. You want to know the impact of the current radiation standards on the faster saturation of the networks. What are the initial findings? What new measures will be taken in view of a new crisis situation? Minister, you have announced that you want social media to play a more intensive role at times of crisis. You have asked Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft to participate in the consultation. Has this meeting taken place yet? What was the outcome? So far, Minister, my specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u95	Minister, on 22 March 2016, as well as during the shooting in Liège in 2011, we saw that telecommunications play an increasingly important role in crisis management, both for security and relief services and for citizens. I asked you about this last year. Our telecom infrastructure has been heavily solicited and has experienced problems related to peaks of out-of-standard flows. We were also able to observe that a series of recommendations for the public were distilled throughout the day of 22 March, including on a scale of use of text messages, data, wifi. I will not go back to the communication aspect between the security and rescue services, which was discussed in the questions to the Minister of the Interior last week. Minister, you asked for an investigation after the events of March 22. Do you already have any answer elements in your possession? Is there a telecom prevention and information plan, a specific communication process in which the recommendations that were communicated to the public during the events of 22 March can be found, or do these recommendations come from a rapid consultation with the operators that day? Was the opening of the hotspots by the operators planned or was it proposed on the day of the attacks? Finally, I would like to have some clarification on the feasibility of flexible emission standards at events. Furthermore, what about national roaming in the event of congestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u96	Minister, this seems to me to be a very important aspect. Not only in response to the recent attacks, but also in the wake of other disasters and crises, I think it is important to look at the regulatory framework in the field of telecommunications. Is everything available to be able to act adequately in the event of a disaster? Can texting be given priority? Is the cell broadcasting gonna be there? Can a message board be provided? There are some legal tools included in the Telecom Act. Article 4.1 (1) of the 2005 Law states that the King shall determine who may be given priority. Paragraph 2 states that, even in the event of saturation or overload, the King may determine the electronic communications services, which the operators provide as a matter of priority. Article 106, § 2, states that the King shall determine the measures to be taken by operators to ensure, in an exceptional situation, the continuity of services, including the transfer of traffic which he lays down as a priority. At the moment there is also the pilot project of the system SMS alert. I would like to remind you of these legal tools and the framework, because we need to evaluate the KBBRs in this respect. The operators can't follow the schedule if this isn't there yet. What about giving priority to texting? Apparently, this is not technically so obvious. What about the priority users? Should we wait for the KB to do so? What is the state of play in determining measures for exceptional situations? Has an KB already been issued in this area? Or is there also a need to amend the telecoms law in this area? As legislator, of course, we would be particularly interested to know whether these texts are possible. Pilot projects are now under way. Is there still a draft law to be tabled in this area? What's the timing on that? What about the billing? Finally, how do you evaluate the availability of mobile networks on 22 March 2016? Was it always possible to text and call emergency services? There will also have to be a serious evaluation of ASTRID by your colleague from the Interior. After all, this remains a worry child. Maybe as a liberal, you can convince your colleagues to take a look on the market at a device that is doing much better with better updates, better performance and better reliability. Actually, we're doing a double job here, and that doesn't make much sense. If one can't be a performer then it's almost a sad story, including on government liability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u97	Mobile data networks and SMS, on the other hand, have borne the burden. This has allowed the use of alternative means of communication. The availability of emergency services, in particular emergency number 112, was safeguarded thanks to a system of priority. I have asked the various telecom operators and the BIPT for a thorough analysis of the network problems. On the basis of these analyses, two meetings have already taken place with the sector, the crisis centre and the other interested parties, in order to draw the necessary lessons and to further refine the crisis procedures. The current telecommunications crisis plan took shape after the Pukkelpop disaster in August 2011 and provides that in the event of a major disaster people are called to text, communicate via mobile data or use fixed networks. That call was made on 22 March by myself, the operators involved and the crisis center. The operators offered as an alternative to completely opening their Wi-Fi hotspots, some on their own initiative, others on my question. The recommendations have borne fruit, judging by the increase in traffic of several tens of per cent on public wifis. On 22 March, a number of key figures were given priority after the disaster. Since then, work has been done on a list of key figures that will be given priority. The crisis center will manage that list and keep it up-to-date. As long as the operators voluntarily implement a solution, it is not necessary to follow the path of a royal decision to impose that priority. Giving priority to SMS traffic depends on the crisis that is taking place and will now take place in consultation with the operators themselves. The number 1771 will become a priority and a permanent one to inform the population. It was developed after the drama of Pukkelpop. In addition to this issue, other solutions are possible to reassure citizens. The Red Cross had set up a "I am OK" site, while Proximus developed a mobile application. The "Be-Alert" system, which is based on SMS alerts, has been successfully tested in several cities in recent years. It will be deployed throughout Belgium in a few months. It was impossible to use it as early as March 22. To ensure the cooperation of mobile operators with BE-Alert, a draft law has been drawn up and has already been adapted to the advice received from the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. That text also follows the legal procedure. Emission standards fall under regional jurisdiction. The increase in emission power has helped to reduce congestion. I hope that the Brussels Region will provide a forward-looking and structural solution so that there is sufficient capacity to cope with increasing data traffic, including at times of crisis. National automatic roaming is only a solution to mobile network congestion if only one of them is affected. The other two must be able to bear the burden, which was not the case on 22 March. The unexpected nature of a telecom crisis limits the scope of such a prevention plan to the public, which then becomes a behaviour plan to adopt or avoid. The IBPT and the operators are now working on the optimisation of this communication protocol. The questions about ASTRID are more of a matter for the Minister of the Interior. In fact, I think that, on the basis of a number of cases in recent months, we can say that we can think creatively about a solution that is more performant and more business secure, and that perhaps uses more of the existing solutions already offered by the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. This is, of course, a very technical matter, but in times of crisis it is clear that this technical matter needs to be dealt with, in our view. I have asked for the implementation of the CSFs, but they are not strictly necessary for you because priority users can already be identified. The start to provide a legal basis for this is indeed in the Telecom Act, but for the implementation we believe that KBBRs should be taken. In particular, there is the reference in Article 4, §1, which gives the possibility to do so anyway. The legislator should, in our view, decide which key figures should be given prior priority. I do not dispute the good will of all operators. I hope we never need this, but when I look back at the Pukkelpop drama and the like and what we have said about it afterwards, I think that these KBJBs should be taken. Then there is a legal framework on which the operators can graft and there is no improvisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u99	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that 112 is given priority on a voluntary basis. In addition, additional items will be done at your request and lists of key figures will be drawn up with the Crisis Centre. What is the nature of such a procedure? Is she prepped? Is she permanent? Does it need to be activated at certain moments of crisis? After all, you answer that certain things are being done on your question, which is very good. However, suppose that you are not available at any given time, cannot give instructions or can not count on that voluntary service. In that case, there's really a problem. Your government was now fortunate but well respected. What happens, however, if you cannot exercise your authority in one way or another? Then we will find ourselves in an improvisation scenario and it is good that we have solid legal procedures. Also around the message board remains a big flou. That used to be weirdly conceived with the road newspapers and that's more. Given what is now possible online, such as with Facebook, although I do not want to count on it in the event of disasters, there has to be a good contract or something will have to be worked out. After all, how sad was it not, that Whatsapp had to be counted on to be able to communicate? Fortunately, your tips on creating hotspots have also been followed. Goodwill was there for sure. There was also a certain responsibility to the government. Nevertheless, the evaluation will have to show what is missing from the pieces of the legislation. There must be some flexibility, especially in the procedures, so that a new royal decree must not be issued for everything. I share your opinion on the Brussels Region, namely that fetishes which are scientifically totally unsubstantiated can lead to very dangerous situations and even to a permanent increase in the risk to public health, because the wrong principles are being taken away from them. The good man of understanding will know what that means. In addition to the assets you have listed, the cost element will, of course, also play a role for ASTRID. It may be much cheaper if the hot water does not have to be invented again and again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u100	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answers and the various details he has provided. I also note his willingness to make progress in drawing up a communication plan between citizens, because it is true that some things are planned in a legal way, but others have to be brought by operators and the IBPT. This communication protocol is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u101	Minister, last January I asked you about the number of ATMs in Belgium. You confirmed to me that 22 municipalities were not equipped with permanently available distributors, 20 of which were in Wallonia and 2 in Flanders. Of these, 11 would have access to a distributor only during the opening hours of the post office, and 11 would have no ATMs in their territory. Since then, you have written to your Walloon colleague, Minister René Collin, to tell him that the new management contract will require bpost to maintain at least 350 ticket distributors in post offices and to ensure the presence of this equipment in all municipalities where this service is not currently offered by another financial institution. Nothing new since the previous management contract already specified this clause. Minister, your letter to Minister Collin leads me to ask you the following questions. Could you give me an action plan and a precise timetable for the installation of an ATM for the municipalities that are completely deprived of it? As a reminder, these are Ramillies, Baelen, Lincent, Tinlot, Juprelle, Lontzen, Daverdisse, Herbeumont, Meix-devant-Virton, Érezée and Houyet. Are you asking bpost to expand the opening hours of restricted time vending machines, which are located in post offices and which can therefore only be available from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. for the most part? Returns from the land indicate that the communes of Fernelmont and Vresse-sur-Semois have just lost their only ATM. Do you confirm this information? If so, what is the reason for this deletion and do you intend to remedy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u102	Mr Vanden Burre, since January 2016, four municipalities have been equipped with a ticket distributor. In these four cases, the ticket distributor was placed in a different location from the post office, as it was technically impossible to install it in the post office. These include the municipalities of Daverdisse, Herbeumont, Lincent and Baelen. To date, there are eight municipalities to be equipped. The file is under way for the seven municipalities that had already been mentioned in January. The commissioning is scheduled for the end of April 2016 for Juprelle, in May 2016 for Meix-devant-Virton, in the second half of 2016 for Érezée, Houyet, Tinlot, Lontzen and Ramillies. The municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois has since been added following the closure of an ING agency. The study is under way, particularly with regard to location. The start-up is scheduled for the end of 2016. According to my information, the commune of Fernelmont would still have a ticket distributor, that of the Belfius bank. In the event that the municipality no longer has a ticket distributor, the request will be made to bpost to provide for the installation of an apparatus. As far as opening hours are concerned, I refer to what was said when the new management contract was presented in committee. bpost must make every effort to ensure that ticket distributors are accessible at extended time ranges, outside post office hours, 7 days a week. Thus, at least 80 per cent of ticket machines installed by bpost will be accessible 7 days a week between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. I do not intend to renegotiate the new management contract to expand business hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-19-54-commissie-ic384x.u103	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer.
