ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. I will have the list of speakers in a few moments. Mr Crusnière has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u3	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble, it seems to me good to point out that the creation of files that contain millions of personal data of all travellers, without their consent, constitutes a serious breach of privacy. Contrary to what this government seems to believe, privacy is not a vague and malleable idea. It is even a very specific legal concept, guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. As such, it has been largely developed by a constant and very recent case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, decisions which cannot simply be ignored. However, let us also be honest, the protection of privacy is not an absolute right, it does not take precedence over the right to security that the government claims to be defending here. In order to undermine privacy, European judges have made it clear in recent years that strict conditions must be respected. It must be clearly regulated by law, it must be necessary and it must pursue a legitimate goal. There is therefore proportionality and effectiveness to be demonstrated. The least we can say is that the PNR bill we are discussing today does not meet these requirements at all. First of all, I would like to address the issue of legitimacy and legality of measures. While the PNR directive clearly lists and limits serious infringements allowing the use of personal data, the project goes much further. The government goes so far as to allow the use of this data to combat vaguely defined behaviours that do not even correspond to minor offences. This drift is dangerous not only because it is illegitimate but also because it makes law enforcement unpredictable for the citizen. Secondly, we must consider the need for measures. Here too, we have the right to ask ourselves the question. Is extending the NRP to land transport and maritime transport really necessary to combat terrorism? Does that make sense to be the only European country to expand the NRP in this way? The answer is negative. Both rail and bus transporters and the European Commission have said that the terrestrial NRP is useless and completely disproportionate because it will not produce any results. It is still you, Minister, who demonstrate the best that the NRP for buses and trains is not so necessary – you mentioned it in committee. Indeed, you hesitate yourself to take execution orders for these modes of transport. You planned it, you said, but the execution orders would eventually define the follow-up. Those who do not want to appear in PNR databases will only have to take a last-minute ticket, book without communicating their name, cross the border by bicycle or travel with fake uncontrollable papers from unknown countries. Or, he will do as others did before him: he will rent a car and travel Europe several times in every direction without ever appearing in a mega-database filled with personal information from citizens suspected of nothing but suspects despite everything. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to believe that extending the NRP to buses and trains will be of any use. This reality has been deliberately ignored by the government. Both at the government level and at the parliamentary level, the MR-N-VA majority has consistently refused to consult the sector. However, such a reform would have required a minimum of hearings. We have asked them, like other groups, on several occasions in committee. Even today, we receive letters from tourism and transport professionals who are concerned. In the north and south of the country, all are concerned about the economic impact of this legislation on the sector. Like us, they are questioning the very feasibility of such a reform, which will affect the land sector mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. Like the European Commission, we believe that it is absurd that Belgium alone imposes the NRP on land transport. Furthermore, there is serious doubt as to the compatibility of these measures with the principle of free movement guaranteed within the Schengen area. The late questioning in the media of some Members of the majority – I regret that Mr Yüksel is absent today – would make us laugh if he were not grieving. But in this case, why did he refuse the hearings and, although I welcome his late awareness, I regret that he did not support them. Why did you say in committee that the project was balanced and say the opposite in the press a few days later? Today, you will have an additional chance because we are going to resubmit our amendment which limits the NRP to air transport and thus offer Mr Yüksel the opportunity to make up for it by voting on it. Colleagues, privacy is a right that allows everyone to live their lives as they see fit. In other words, to live freely, free. The power of the State can only affect it within a strict, necessary framework. Yet here, the government's project is leniently beyond the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why we will vote without hesitation against this text, which has nothing to do with the directive, of which it only draws its name.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u4	Minister, the tenor of my speech will be somewhat different. Maybe that's not a surprise. I am also not surprised by the elements that Mr Crusnière just put forward, because it was actually the same argument that was made during the substantive discussion in committee. So I have not heard many new elements here. At that time you replied very well, Minister. Moreover, some critical minds, who are not present here today, sometimes note that too much is being palaverized in the Temporary Committee on Terrorism and that no results are being achieved. In my opinion, over the last few months, Mr Metsu's TERRO committee has already worked hard on a series of proposals and drafts, with the necessary positive legislative results. Today there is yet another draft law which has been discussed in committee in a fruitful manner, although there have been no hearings, but the positions have been very well defended by my fellow Members. Minister, it is a positive draft law, whereby the federal government and now Parliament are the first to transpose the EU directive. It's okay to do that. The directive has been negotiated for years. By the way, the US was the first to start after 9/11, 15 years ago, but in Europe the spirits were only ripe after the unfortunate attacks by Brussels and Paris. The EU directive is therefore certainly not a minute early. Our government had even announced in its measures against terror that it would launch a PNR itself, if no agreement could be reached at EU level, but fortunately it should not have come to that. The analysis of PNR data is an important additional tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Personal data will be used to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorism and serious crime. Suspects of terrorist or serious crimes often use specific and variable modes of operandi for their travel behaviour. The PNR data, which are now required to be provided, contain these data. These data may be used to monitor the movements of such persons, as well as for the collection of evidence, for the detection of accomplices, for the roll-up of possible networks and for the discovery of certain modes of operandi, new trends and phenomena. This is not only important for the fight against Terro, but it is also wider in the fight against serious crimes. Minister, the PIE, the Passenger Information Unit, which will manage the database, has an important role to play in implementing this bill. Its concrete creation will be regulated by royal decree and will work interoperability. In addition, the PIE will be in contact with the PIUs of other EU Member States, as well as with Europol, Canada, the United States and Australia, so much needed in the fight against cross-border terrorism. Colleagues, it has already been pointed out here by Mr Crusnière that it is important in the fight against terrorism to always make a proper balance between the general interest and human lives, damage to third parties and other interests. Sharing that information, which is very well protected in the field of privacy, gives us many advantages in the fight against terrorism. For us there are at least enough safeguards in the field of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u5	Mr Buysrogge, you say and repeat that the PNR measure is necessary and effective. That was the content of the Minister of the Interior's remarks during the debates in committee. I would like to ask you a simple question that all citizens should ask themselves. From the moment we take a measure as phenomenal as the one on the collection of information about millions of passengers – that is almost the Belgian population – in what specific case would the PNR data have been useful in the cases of terrorism that we have unfortunately been confronted with in recent years? As far as I am concerned, I have dealt with the matter. I didn't find it. Since you say that this is very useful and absolutely necessary, could you give me an example where PNR data would have either avoided or better understood a terrorist case that is taking place in Belgium or elsewhere in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u6	Mr Hellings, the importance and benefit of these PNR data must not be underestimated. You're being a bit of a bitch about it, aren't you? In the case of a positive hit in the database, for example, someone can be taken off the plane before that plane leaves, and that does not seem to me to be irrelevant. Whether or not one attack could have been avoided, I will not put it here in the chair. It is important to have a well-functioning system for the future. We believe that the systems that are built into them are well in line with that wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u7	Mr President, allow me to reply very specifically to Mr Hellings' question. He also asked that question at the committee meeting and I can refer to the report on the discussions in committee meetings. In Times Square in New York, for example, the PNR data has prevented an attack. Mr Hellings already knows that, as I have already replied in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u8	It's the only time. I asked you this question twice, in the first committee and in the second committee. At the first committee, you did not answer anything. During the second commission, you replied that the federal police had recently met with the U.S. PNR team and that during these exchanges, they reported an investigation that could be conducted through the U.S. PNR in relation to an attack in Times Square. You didn't say when that person was arrested, why or how. I am sorry but we are legislating on millions of data of millions of passengers in Belgium on the basis of a sentence that contains six words and that is to say: "Yes, the American PNR team has prevented an attack in Times Square". I think it's particularly light when we are in the process of legislating on the privacy and life of all passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u9	Finally, Mr President, one important point which was also stressed in committee, in particular the consultation with the sectors. We have indeed received a letter from the tourism sector, from which we can derive some nervousness from this draft law. I believe that the sensitivities of the sectors, and of the tourism sector in particular, were discussed extensively in committee. It is important for us to emphasise once again that this is a framework law. It is therefore precisely the intention to enter into consultations with the sectors in order to ensure that the royal decisions can be further implemented. I think we can rely on it, and I look you in the eye, Minister, that you have every interest in value for those sectors. It is not our intention to destroy these sectors, be convinced of that. Mr President, I have a few very specific questions on this subject. When will the consultation take place? By what time can we expect the royal decisions on the table? By when will the bill and the royal decrees be operational? You can count on our support, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today is the result of ten years of debate, ten years of intense discussions, particularly at European level, ten years that have been necessary to bring this Passenger Name Record, the PNR, to a successful conclusion. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the presence of an important text. By adopting it, Belgium will transpose the European Directive adopted in April 2016 and thus join other European countries that already have such a tool or are in the process of finalising it. I am thinking in particular of the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain. This project is part of the momentum of this majority: strengthening tools available to our security or intelligence services, while ensuring the necessary and subtle balance between security and freedom. The objective is threefold. First, to gather relevant information. Secondly, to ensure that they are shared with the various competent departments. Thirdly, to limit these new arrangements of solid guarantees. This bill meets all of these expectations. Intelligence and security services will therefore have access, through a series of modalities, to potentially relevant information in their fight against terrorism, serious crime and illegal immigration. A first argument raised by the opponents of the NRP would be that it would serve nothing but to "fly" – I use the terms that were used – Mr and Mrs. It would be a massive collection of data as useless as intrusive for people with nothing to blame. So the question is: Is the NRP useless? At the second reading of the bill, the Minister of the Interior gave an eloquent example that has just been mentioned. This is the example of Times Square. Similarly, the French Socialist Prime Minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, at the time French Minister of the Interior – a socialist, ladies and gentlemen, but no doubt there are good and bad socialists – declared on 20 November that the PNR would have been very useful in countering Mehdi Nemmouche's plans, as a result of his multiple movements. Is, however, the NRP sufficient for itself? No, of course not! This is an important tool, as is the case with the 20 other measures adopted so far by this majority. Combined with other instruments, including more efficient and well-powered data banks, the NRP will provide our security and intelligence services with information that would allow them to confuse a suspected terrorist or an individual with a threat to our security. To whom will this new tool apply? It will apply both to air carriers and operators as well as to international high-speed trains, international bus transport, maritime transport, for example between Belgium and the United Kingdom, as well as to passengers whose data will be transmitted to the PNR Voyages database, within or to the Schengen area. We know that terrorists do not only travel on extra-Schengen flights. Like other types of criminals, they are using the flaws of this great space of freedom that we must preserve while pursuing the necessary improvements. Data protection will be guaranteed and will comply with the necessary proportionality criteria. The Passenger Information Unit, which will be authorized to process the new PNR data bank, will include an independent service officer. Similarly, a data protection officer, independent of the executive official, will report to the Minister of the Interior and carry out a monitoring mission. Services will never have access to the database, except with specific and predetermined criteria or through a correlation with their own database. When the outcome of the treatment is negative, e.g. following an individual re-examination, the result may be archived to avoid false positive matches. The bill also enshrines a right of direct access and rectification for passengers. The Privacy Commission welcomed the safeguards provided for in the draft. This seems extremely important to us. In its previous opinion, moreover, on the adoption of the April 2016 directive, it welcomed in particular the guarantees relating to the processing of passenger data during spot searches, both for the judicial aspect involving the prior intervention of the King's prosecutor and, where appropriate, of the investigating judge and for the intelligence services - the R Committee being responsible for monitoring their activities. As the minister in committee pointed out, in the meantime, other comments from this body have been settled by the European Directive of April 2016. On some points, Belgium goes even further as regards guarantees for passengers. In particular, it is envisaged that memoranda of understanding will be concluded with each foreign IPU (Passenger Information Unit) that may use the data. In addition, they must first provide guarantees for the correct use of the data transmitted. Finally, I will conclude this non-exhaustive list of guarantees by recalling that the European Commission will - and this seems extremely important to us - organise an evaluation within two years of the transposition of the PNR directive. This will enable it to take stock of possible ways of improving national legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u11	Mr Flahaux, as I note that you are not addressing the issue of rail transport, I wanted to ask you the following question. With regard to the extension of the NRP to rail transport, do you agree with the opinion of the Minister of the Interior, who believes that this measure is necessary, or that of Minister Bellot, who considers it a bad idea? Your heart swings between the two positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u12	I doubted your question since we took the train together to go to Parliament today. You see that the MR can travel with the PTB without a problem! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u13	The cordon is political. He's not human! As you would always say, "Of course not." I would like to reply to Mr. Van Hees because I don't think you're Mr. Van Hees' wife. Van Hees. Not yet. I would like to say to him that the minister has agreed that there will be a consultation with rail carriers in the neighbouring countries of Belgium and that, on the basis of this consultation, we will be informed as to whether or not this system will be put in place for the rail industry. Since Belgium is a small country, although some would still want to reduce it, it is clear that there could be no real efficiency of a railway NRP only through coordination with neighbouring countries. I see the ministers are acquiescing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u14	Mr Flahaux, it's fun to see your gestures about enlargement on the train. Why? Because in the letter to the Minister of the Interior, the three European Commissioners, one in charge of Mobility and Transport, the second in charge of Migration and Home Affairs and the third in charge of Safety say that enlargement to the train, the boat and the bus could represent a significant cost – as a liberal, you can be sensitive to the question of cost – and a breakdown of service. This is very serious, because the European Union means being able to move from one country to another, for example by means of a high-speed train. These three Commissioners, not least, therefore have doubts. Finally, there is a difficulty in implementing the system. Why? Because at European Union level, the Ministers of the Interior and Transport are currently considering how best to guarantee safety on trains. A series of initiatives other than the NRP are taken to, for example, allow – it's under discussion – to systematically control in case of suspicious fact or in case of danger, some people at certain stations, which is very different to control all people at all stations. This is exactly what the NRP is going to do. I believe that this system cannot be implemented. In fact, I do not know how many times in the history of this Parliament Commissioners have been involved in a law in Belgium, sending letters. I think we are at the heart of the problem. I will come back to that later in my speech. But enlargement to the train is a good misconception. It is above all a dangerous and anti-economic idea, a criterion that I thought was important to you, Liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u15	I thank my colleague Mr Hellings. In fact, we have already had the opportunity to discuss it in a radio debate at RTBF. But I think you probably didn't understand my answer to Mr. Van Hees, namely that there would be a consultation with the railway operators, in particular on the issues that you have raised. Don't worry. I believe that, in addition, the Minister made a commitment to report on the outcome of these consultations before the Royal Order came into force. So you will still have the opportunity to come back to these issues, which are legitimate issues, which we must be able to address, but which must not create an impossibility of finding solutions. What bothers us in your a priori, if I dare to say, is that on the basis of true questions, you seem to consider that, in any case, there is no way to implement it. We prefer to go deeper to see what is possible and what is not. It's another approach. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this speech with an appeal to the opposition. I respect but deplore the attitude of Ecolo-Groen and the PS, who voted against the draft in committee, although the PS approved the NRP at European Parliament level. In doing so, we believe they are part of an ideological and dogmatic dynamic. More than ever we need pragmatism and to find ourselves behind projects, the only objective of which is to strengthen our services and the tools at their disposal while respecting the necessary balance between security and freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u16	Just in relation to your reflection on the support of the Socialists for the directive, I confirm. Indeed, we supported this directive and, I repeat, if this bill currently under discussion fully complied with this directive and was limited to what the directive provides, we would have supported it. That is why I am tabling an amendment to bring this project into line with the wishes of the directive, namely to limit the NRP to air transport. If you ever vote on our amendments, it is obvious that we will support this text as we have supported the European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u17	Mr Crusnière, you seem to say that the directive does not allow enlargement to other means of transport. No, she's not saying that! I think it's good to say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u18	Mr Crusnière, I still want to clarify two points. Firstly, if you have read the directive – and I have no doubt that you have done so – you will have found that it literally states that "one can open the same system to other means of transport" and this has been voted on by the Socialists. Secondly, as far as your amendment is concerned, I do not know whether you have read the opinion of the Council of State. It states that "limiting this system only to air transport is against equality". If we did not have enough arguments yet, it is now the Council of State that supports our project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u19	Mr President, Minister Flahaux, the discussion between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council lasted five years before arriving at this directive. Why? Because, during these five years, there was no majority in the European Parliament on a PNR project for aircraft passengers only. It is true that the directive allows access to other modes of transport. I will come back to this issue as part of my intervention, Minister. Things have changed as a result of the attacks in Paris. Indeed, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has changed its mind. On the other hand, the Greens objected from end to end to this system of PNR and, in particular, the German Green MEP, Jan Albrecht, who carried this project. I would also like to pay tribute to him here, because he is the one behind the blockage of this measure which will prove – I am sure – counterproductive in terms of effectiveness against terrorism and extremely damaging in terms of human rights. While it is true that the directive allows access to other modes of transport, three European Commissioners – very important authorities – believe that it is not easy to implement. Furthermore, Mr Minister, even if we are against it, we must not forget that the NRP is a European objective for information sharing. However, you work in the opposite way with regard to transport by train, boat and bus, since you create databases about which you cannot give any estimate. Indeed, during the discussions, at no time could you say how many passengers would be involved. Maybe you'll tell us later. How many passengers will be affected? This is a data that it is essential to know before legislation is enacted. As far as Health is concerned, Mrs De Block, for example, does not imagine taking action without having first estimated the number of patients who could be affected. Before taking any action in tax matters, Mr. Van Overveldt is also trying to estimate how many taxpayers could be involved. And you, you legislate on passengers while being unable to answer a simple question: how many passengers will this measure apply to? It's not complicated, though! From the beginning, the European and Belgian Greens felt that a PNR measure would be illegitimate. And today you are making the situation even more difficult by introducing PNRs for the boat, the train and the bus, without consulting your European partners. I find this profoundly ineffective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u20	I was saying that I regretted the attitude of the PS at Belgian level, as well as that of Ecolo-Groen at both European and Belgian level. They voted against the draft in committee. I called on them to adopt it or to abstain in plenary. More than ever we need pragmatism and to find ourselves behind projects whose sole objective is to strengthen our services and the tools at their disposal while respecting the necessary balance between security and freedom. As Mr. Hellings is well aware, the Privacy Commission recognizes that privacy protection measures are indeed comprehensive in this project. I therefore hope that they will join us when we vote on this important text, as they have been able to do for other measures in the past. As the CDH was also able to do, by the way. As far as the MR Group is concerned, it welcomes and supports a balanced text in addition to the 20 or so measures adopted so far to strengthen our services in their daily fight against terrorism. Because – and I'm going to be a bit polemic for my last sentence – what sometimes makes me a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to pass a bill aimed at the indiscriminate collection of data by all international passengers, in Belgium, of aircraft, trains, buses and boats. That's what this is about. We do not discuss, as we have been used to in this House, databases of criminals, radicalised people, which concern a little more than a thousand people. It is not the police database, the BNG, which concerns persons who have had contact with the police, some of whom are criminal and others not, and which has about 100 thousand people. It is not an intelligence database that also covers hundreds of thousands of people. It is a general database of all Belgians since today we live in a very connected country, in the heart of the European Union, all Belgians and all residents in Belgium using an international means of transport. This is a paradigm shift for our intelligence services and for our police services because, so far, our police services and political power considered us to be all presumed innocent citizens. Today, the government's objective, by passing this law implementing a directive, is to consider everyone to be a priori guilty or potentially guilty. This paradigm shift must be taken into account. The aim of the law and the directive which it transposes is commendable: the fight against terrorism and serious cross-border crime. That's the stated purpose. In the course of the discussion, we will see whether this objective can be achieved or is achieved. I would like to make a comment on the struggle we are talking about. The law does not mention the databases that will be correlated with the PNR database. Mr Flahaux made it clear during the debate that this is a paradigm shift, not only because this project concerns all Belgians but also by the method of the police services. This aspect is a little technical, but it is important to recall it. Previously, when a police or intelligence service had a doubt about a person, suspected or potentially guilty, searches were carried out in a series of databases to verify where that person is moving, who he or she is meeting, what he or she is doing or to which country he or she has visited. This is normal. The paradigm shift in the PNR method is that there is a database of tens of millions of international passengers that will be correlated with other databases such as the Foreign Office database, the police BNG database or the terrorism database, which is also normal. However, at no time does the law restrict the number and specificity of the databases that will be correlated. That's where there's a problem. Why? As has been pointed out by some colleagues in the majority, it is hits, occurrences, which will alert the police, not suspicions. It is the algorithm that will set the priorities, in the work of our police services, and more the field work, the knowledge, the infiltration of our security and intelligence officers into the areas that represent a potential danger to our citizens. No, it is no longer human intelligence that will be the basis of the work of our police and intelligence services, but the algorithm. And we know that it can be wrong, as has been the case many times, in the setting up of the US NRP. I have called him back in committee and I will not call him back here. Remember: an American senator, now deceased, Kennedy, was arrested six times, because he appeared on the red list or black list of air carriers. Mr. Kennedy was not, and never was, a terrorist. Why is it so important to recall this phenomenon and this paradigm shift here in plenary? Of course, Minister, you made it clear in committee that this algorithm would respect the privacy law and, of course, the essential criteria of the rule of law. But who, in this parliament or elsewhere, is able to read an algorithm? Not me. I believe that none of my colleagues here is able to say whether the algorithm that will be chosen to correlate a PNR database with a whole range of other databases meets the fundamental criteria of the rule of law, such as non-discrimination or the principle of combating racial inequalities, among others. In this case, the PNR database will be correlated with other databases that are not specified in the law. While the highly commendable objective is to combat terrorism and serious crime, this PNR service will, in fact, be able to be used in the fight against immigration, which you call illegal - which is not a serious crime. While it is justified to put in brackets the privacy of several million people in the name of the fight against terrorism and serious cross-border crime, it is absolutely not for small crime or for acts that are not crimes. I take the example of border surveillance here, but I could mention many others. I am thinking of cigarette trafficking, which you mentioned as a British example of the effectiveness of the NRP and which is not a serious crime. Of course, it is a phenomenon that must be fought, but by other means than the cannon to kill a fly. The NRP must be used to combat terrorism and serious cross-border crimes, not anything else. For a measure that is also intrusive for the privacy of all Belgians and residents in Belgium, it is a question of being able to demonstrate its proportionality. This was the five-year debate between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council from February 2011 to May 2016. The debate focused only on this aspect. What is proportionality? It is about demonstrating effectiveness and necessity on the one hand. My point of view is that you have not demonstrated either. Moreover, the Commission and the Council have never demonstrated them either, which augurs for interesting debates when the directive or the law is presented to the European Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u22	Mr Hellings, I feel like I hear the same arguments when it comes to adopting the installation of surveillance cameras in many municipalities. These are exactly the same arguments: proportionality, intrusion, etc., while there are a whole series of measures that ensure that privacy is respected. Your arguments seem a little special to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u23	Mr.Flahaux, your intervention allows me to further explain how this bill is neither effective nor necessary. I stress these two words: effective and necessary. It is the two adjectives that must be present to consider that a bill and the directive it implements are proportionate. As far as efficiency is concerned, I asked the following question in committee: in what specific cases have the British and American NRPs, which have been in operation for several years, prevented a terrorist attack? There was the case of Times Square, on which we can return, but it is not enough to say that we are going to legislate to put in brackets the privacy of 11 million Belgians in the name of the fact that there would have been a foiled attack in Times Square. It's important that an attack could have been foiled in Times Square but...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u24	Tell that to the victims of the terrorist attacks!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u25	This is really interesting, Minister, because we come to the heart of the matter. Yes, the attacks are a tragedy, minister. Since this legislation responds, in your opinion, to the objections, the information and the experience of our police services who had to deal with these tragedies, who investigated these tragedies, who tried to avoid these tragedies, we would have liked to hear them so that they could have explained how your PNR measures could have helped them defeat them. That was not possible. Worse, when I asked you the question – and I rested it for you just now – of how these PNR measures would have prevented, prevented or investigated the tragedies that have occurred, at any time, you could not answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u26	Mr. Hellings, you said there was only one example, that of Times Square. I reply that if it can avoid even one attack, it is worth it. It is worth taking this decision here today, with responsible people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u27	Minister, we don't respond to terrorists with slogans. Terrorists are being addressed through concrete and effective measures. Effective and necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u29	Mr Laaouej, you can ask for the floor later if you wish, but for the moment it is Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u30	In order to be able to take a measure which, according to the minister and the parties of the majority, is presumed to be effective, the police should have been interviewed to verify this effectiveness. This has not been done, but it does not matter. The Minister could have explained why, in a particular case, he could have benefited from the PNR tool, which could have prevented a terrorist attack. As this work was not done, you forced me to do it. And I did. I have therefore taken over the 39 terrorists who, since March 2012, in France and Belgium – we know that the channels are more or less linked – have been involved in terrorist attacks. Let us take stock, since this is the last time we will have the opportunity to do so before the vote! First, there was the Merah case, the killing of Toulouse and Montauban in March 2012. Mohammed Merah was French, he moved by scooter. Mohammed Merah did not use a PNR means of transport (aircraft, bus, train or boat) to carry out his attack. He was known to the police. He had to be searched, he had to be watched. That was not the case. The first attack we experienced in Belgium in May 2014 was that of the Jewish Museum. Mehdi Nemmouche didn't go by train or plane. Maybe he used the bus, but he was already registered. He committed his car attack. The NRP would have been ineffective. What matters is that he was known to the French secret services. He was known to the French police. The crucial information sharing between France and Belgium would have made it possible to arrest Mehdi Nemmouche at some point in his deadly run. There were Charlie Hebdo, the attacks of January 7 and 9. The three terrorists, Cherif Kouachi, Said Kouachi, Amedy Coulibaly, were French, were travelling on French territory, did not use planes, boats or buses to carry out their attack. Besides, it wouldn't have been useful. The foiled attack on Verviers is very interesting, because it is a success story of our State Security and our police services. Marouan El Bali, Sofiane Amghar and Khalid Ben Larbi, the three terrorists who were neutralized in Verviers during the foiled attack, used rented vehicles. They didn't use the bus, the train, or the plane. In the case of the foiled attack on Villejuif in France, Sid Ahmed Ghlam, a French resident, did not travel by plane, bus, boat or train. In the attack on three soldiers in Nice in February 2015, Moussa Coulibaly, a French resident, did not travel by plane, bus, boat or train. In the case of the attack of 26 June 2015, which saw the beheading of Saint-Quentin, Yassine Sahli, a French resident, did not similarly move by train, bus, plane or boat to carry out his attack. With regard to the Thalys attack, on 21 August 2015, U.S. military forces had made it possible to arrest this person before he committed the irreparable. It is this failed Thalys attack that justifies, in your bill, the expansion of this bill to the trains. I quote the justification of Article 6: "The incident in Thalys has again demonstrated how important it is to be able to trace the movements of certain individuals". The individual in question was Ayoub El Khazzani. This one entered the Thalys. He travelled to Belgium by means other than the international train, the plane or the boat. But he took the Thalys and, as a result, Belgium had to have a PNR. Had she adopted a PNR before August 2015, she would have been able to arrest the person before she committed the irreparable. Fortunately, this did not happen. There is a problem here, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u31	Mr Hellings, I listened to your statement saying that those people who committed attacks all over Europe did not take Thalys or public transport. What I do not understand in your reasoning is that these people did not take public transport to carry out their attacks, but they could very well have taken them at some point in their lives, before becoming criminals. We could, at that time, perhaps have traced them. One thing I don't understand in your reasoning: do you have to wait for someone to commit an attack before setting up the NRP? That's the question. When we still have a problem here – something nobody wants – when there's going to be an explosion in a Thalys station in Brussels and we don't have all the means to avoid it, you're going to blame us. That's what's wrong with your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u32	Where is the origin of the expansion of NRPs from aircraft to the train? In the failed attack of Thalys in August 2015. And we come to the heart of the matter, Mr. Thiéry, and I will answer you. What is interesting in the previous mode of operation, which helped to thwart the attack on Verviers, is that when a person, or a group of people, is suspicious, it is normal for our intelligence and police services to make every effort, including extremely intrusive means of privacy, to verify what these people are doing, who they are meeting and where they are moving. These methods already exist; they are the methods of data collection and the specific methods of research that police and intelligence services can use. The attack on Verviers was thwarted by this, thanks to a database of a few thousand people whose aim is to verify the movements, the physical, telephone, Internet and other contacts, whose apartments could be tapped or whose vehicles – including rented vehicles – could be equipped with GPS beacons. That is what needs to be done and that is what has worked. What I would have liked before we passed this bill is for the minister or, ideally, the police to explain to us how this NRP would have prevented an attack. And what I'm showing you here is that, in fact, PNR methods would not have been able to thwart the recent attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u33	Again, I understand your reasoning, but there is a concern at the source. If I understand you correctly, the NRP principle should be applied only to persons who are recognized, are registered and have already committed one or the other crime. But before you got a file, the person didn't have one. What is the time from which we can say that someone is going to commit an attack or not while their file is blank? This is proof, therefore, that in your reasoning, of course, we can take into account all those who have already had a concern or who have committed crimes, but there are all those who have a blank record, who have not yet intervened and who are going to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u34	So, Mr. Thiéry, you're a supporter of the fact that we have to get everybody out of here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u35	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u36	That's it, Mr. Thiéry! Tens of millions of people taking Thalys. The PNR is that, Mr. Thiéry. I know you're finding out the file right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u37	I, Mr. Hellings, work with common sense too! To say that I do not know the file is not true because I have indeed been involved in some discussions on the subject. You are the specialist in this matter, but with the lessons you are giving us, I wonder who the specialist is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u38	We can see that you studied at the ULB because the argument of authority knows you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u39	I understand the majority's reasoning, but I wonder how far she wants to go. If you go through that logic, it actually means taking DNA and fingerprinting from all Belgians and collecting it in databases. Then surveillance on the 11 million Belgians should be increased as much as possible. Moreover, in the case of a crime, algorithms must be applied to the immense database of 11 million Belgians. The result is a series of suspects to whom the police must go immediately, who must be accused and arrested and so on. Our position is that what is before us here is not effective and disproportionate. We would better use the resources available to strengthen our police, security and intelligence services. I asked a question. So your logic, which is quite slogansque, means maximum surveillance and databases of DNA and fingerprints. That is actually what the majority says, and that is disproportionate and ineffective. There are more effective ways to tackle terrorism than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u40	Mr President, I will not accuse anyone of lack of knowledge. In the Committee on the Fight against Terror, I think everyone speaks with knowledge, especially Mr Hellings. However, I have lost him here for a while when he brings in his new element. The disproportion has already been mentioned. Anyway, we cannot deny that PNR data stopped an attack on Times Square. He recognizes that too, but now he says the end doesn't justify the means. Then I wonder what a human life is worth. Is there some kind of tilting point? How many terrorist attacks must be avoided, before we, a small country like ours, have a limited impact on our residents, also accept our responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u41	I will respond to each of the interventions by example. The fact that we are legislating today on rail transport is justified by the bill and by this person, Ayoub El Khazzani, who took the Thalys. She's been on record for five years, Mr. Thiéry. This person was the subject of investigations and surveillance by various European intelligence services - Spanish and French. This person, had he been given more attention - which was not the case - could have been under surveillance and could have been subject to police control, found and arrested before his misdemeanour. The NRP wouldn't have changed anything. I'll explain why. Today, the NRP is open to trains because it is believed that terrorists also take the train, the boat and the international bus, not just the plane. That's the logic. The Minister gets hit twice by the European Commission. Why? Because the NRP for trains cannot be implemented - I explained it earlier during an interruption - because it could cost too much and it is contrary to the principle of free movement, especially if the possibility of taking a train at the last minute is removed. What is the NRP? This is the indiscriminate collection of data from all passengers 24 hours before the departure of the means of transport. This is the NRP. The PNR is like the plane. You can't fly if you don't give your ID details. The NRP extended to trains, that's it! It is that you cannot take the train without giving 24 hours in advance your identity and the other 18 data provided by the directive and transposed into law. This is the NRP. The minister responds to the European Commission and we reply that we will discuss in the royal decrees, in collaboration with the rail sector, which is particularly concerned, and we will see how to still respect the principle of free movement and maintain last-minute tickets. This means making an exception to the rule that all PNR data is transferred 24 hours prior to the departure of the conveyance. Ayoub El Khazzani bought a first-class ticket, in the last minute, at the Midi train station, at a price of 149 euros. This means that with the expanded PNR on the train, with the exception of being able to buy a ticket at the last minute, this system could not have prevented it from getting into the Thalys. There! It's as simple as that. It is still terrible that we ourselves should do the research and discover this today. It's the reverse that should have happened. The police and the minister should have, in front of our benches, demonstrated the usefulness of the PNR to arrest this guy in Thalys before he committed his attack. Fortunately, two American soldiers took care of it. It's the reverse that should have happened. The Minister will have to accept a PNR with exception because the European Commission will not allow, from the point of view of freedom of movement, the PNR to prevent the purchase of tickets at the last minute. But it's just the last minute this terrorist bought his ticket.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u42	Mr Hellings, you are focusing your speech more or less on the efficiency of the bill and not on the disproportion I asked for. We now have a flag trying to cover a full load. Of course, there is still a need for a link between these two types of aid. I think the Minister will come back to this. We cannot at present oblige certain operators to pass the data on, but the government wants to send out a very clear signal with the draft, and we fully support it. The government wants to make sure that things can't be anonymous anymore. This is about efficiency. I believe that this will be the subject of further discussion. My question was rather about disproportion. I don't understand that, and I hope you'll forgive me. You say that avoiding an attack is not enough for the development of this draft law and to take the step towards more passer-by-name records. My questions to you will then be the next. How much is a human life worth? How many attacks should be avoided in the future before your group wants to think about PNR?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u43	Mr Metsu, this is a particularly inoperative argument. Attacks have been foiled in Belgium in Verviers. I just gave you a list of those attacks. The attack on Verviers was thwarted without PNR, thanks to the effectiveness of existing methods, specific research methods and data collection methods. This attack was thwarted by the force of our law, which respects privacy, and that of our police and intelligence services, which worked well. We visited the Sûreté, Mr. Metsu, who explained in detail how this attack could have been thwarted, and how people could have been neutralized before they committed the irreparable. There, I have proof that our systems and our values are working, in the fight against terrorism, when you, you have come with no proof that this NRP could defeat an attack. I have just demonstrated to you by a + b that the extension of the NRP to the train was ineffective, since this person, who justifies this enlargement, would have passed between the meshes of the net, in so far as the minister will be obliged, in his royal orders, to guarantee the purchase of train tickets at the last minute. That terrorist took a train in the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u44	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene and interrupt Mr Hellings, but I have a problem with Mr Metsu's comment and I therefore wish to respond. I have not followed the work of the TERRO committee, or rather I have followed them in terms of privacy and mobility and in terms of additional requirements. I do not agree at all with your statement, Mr Metsu, if those who oppose the maximalist transposition of this PNR directive were to take stock of what is worth a lifetime. You ask Mr Hellings what a human life is worth, according to him, so that he would agree to this conversion. I do not think the analysis is correct: as if people who believe that this transposition of the PNR Directive is too maximized and who have doubts about the additional burden would not be concerned with every human life. I believe that everyone in this assembly agrees that any human life lost because of a terrorist act is too much. So that should not be the discussion. The debate on the transposition of this European legislation is about whether the pendulum has gone too far. I understand that there is a certain fear of future attacks on the part of the Minister responsible. Each of us here wonders what our responsibility is as politicians. However, in this transposition, the key question is whether a maximalist transposition with additional administrative burdens and data collection will guarantee 100% that this can no longer be done. Unfortunately, I have to say no to this. Then I would like to ask whether it is really efficient in transposing this directive to apply the maximumist interpretation. Honestly, I doubt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u45	Mr. Hellings, I'm trying to understand your reasoning. You're saying in Verviers, it's been shown how we can foil an attack. Fortunately, after this event, we kept taking action! You do not think that the PNR should be set up, because the Verviers case has proved that we have every means at our disposal. But fortunately, we did not stop there and so we installed MPR cameras, we decided to change the law to fight these terrorists and we took all the other steps! We can think of what we want from your study, either...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u46	I ordered one! Not you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u47	Why was the NRP requested? It was after September 11. I don't know if you remember what the means and weapons of the terrorists were.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u48	I just said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u49	They were planes. Can you assure me that we will never know 11 September here or in neighbouring countries? No! We have never said that the NRP is the only way to stop terrorists. This is one of the many steps we are going to take - and we are going to take them, Mr Hellings. I hope we will never have to use it or hear ourselves say, "If we had had a PNR, we could have avoided an attack." This is a serious responsibility for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u50	Mr President, once again, I regret that in this debate, when we try to argue and enumerate the reasons why we are opposed to this measure, we are accused of not wanting to make arrangements and of being lax. That's not the case. The real question is this. The extension of the NRP to maritime, rail and road transport will also overshadow all the data that will be collected. Their treatment will require a huge amount of work. Is this measure therefore becoming more effective or is it not likely to drown our services, with the result that important data are missing? One aspect has not yet been addressed. Hearings would have identified the right course of action and whether it should be extended. We would have liked to know the position of the police in this regard. I would also like to remind you – because, if I am not mistaken, this has not yet been mentioned – that three European Commissioners have written to you drawing attention to the danger of this text and the lack of coordination at European level. You say that the directive is being complied with. If the wish had been to extend this directly, this would have been done in the directive. That is not the case. You're telling me she's giving it the opportunity to do it, actually. But the danger lies in the fact that three European Commissioners draw attention to the need for European coordination and you don't care!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u51	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, Mr Hellings, I would like to reserve my reply for the end of the debate. However, with regard to the letter from the three Commissioners - this question has already been asked on several occasions - I would like to say the following. I sent a reply to this letter and then, on 5 December, we had a meeting with the representatives of the three Commissioners. There, they told us that their criticisms were based on an old version of the bill and that after hearing our explanations on the content of the real bill presented in Parliament, all the arguments put forward in that letter had become obsolete. On both section 45 and section 47, we were able to explain the change included in the new draft. It has therefore been confirmed to us that the criticisms expressed have become moot. We must therefore stop referring to this letter from the three Commissioners!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u52	Minister, you are introducing a bill. It is up to you to demonstrate its usefulness and effectiveness, which you have not done. It is I who propose here all the terrorist cases that have occurred in France and Belgium – the channels being linked – and which shows you by a + b that the PNR would not have been effective. Today, I ask you how the PNR would have prevented this terrorist, Ayoub El Khazzani, from buying in the last minute a first-class train ticket of 149 € to get into the Thalys station in the Midi and try to commit this attack? Answer that question. How would the Belgian NRP have prevented this? This justifies the extension of the NRP to the train. And to that question, you can't answer. For me, this is proof that this measure is ineffective. My criticism is about efficiency, not principles. I demonstrate here that the extent to which you extend the indiscriminate collection of data to cross-border train passengers is not effective. And it would not have allowed Ayoub El Khazzani to be arrested in advance. I'm going on with my macabre list. The Paris attacks of 13 November. It's a big file. There are Abdelhamid Abaaoud, Brahim Abdeslam, Chakib Akrouh, Samy Amimour, Ismaël Mostefaï, Mohamed-Aggad, Bilal Hadfi, Ahmad Al Mohammad (probably a false identity) and Mohammad Al Mahmod, Salah Abdeslam (well known) and Hasna Aït Boulahcen, Mohammed Amri, Hamza Attou, Ali Olkadi, Fabien Clain, Khalid Zerkani (called Papa Noël), Mohamed Belkaid, Zouhir Mehdaoui, Gelel Attar. All of these persons were resident in Belgium and France, with the exception of the two persons who had a false Syrian passport. With the exception of these two people, all of these people travelled to Europe with rented cars. These people have crossed Europe on numerous occasions via means of transport which are not covered by the law. The Paris attacks – the terrace attack, the French stadium attack or the Bataclan attack – could not have been thwarted by the implementation of a Belgian or French PNR; they were French or Belgian, residing in France or Belgium. For the attacks in Brussels, it is even clearer. Mohamed Abrini, Najim Laachraoui, Ibrahim El Bakraoui, Khalid El Bakraoui, Osama Krayem, Mohamed Bakkali, Sofiane Ayari: all of these people resided in Belgium and did not use any means of transport. I would add here that most of them did not travel to Syria. The attack foiled on 24 March in France: Reda Kriket. As a French resident, he did not use a means of transportation covered by the bill. The Golden Goutte chopper attack on January 7, 2016: Tarek Belgacem. A French resident, he did not use a means of transport. The attack aborted in Carcassonne on 13 June 2016: an unknown. He didn't use a means of transport. The attack in Nice (to which the attack in Berlin echoes): Mohamed Lahouaiej Boulel. A French resident, he used a truck, he did not use a means of transport. He did not go to Syria, he did not use the plane, the boat or the train to carry out his attack, or even before. Police attack in Schaerbeek in 2016: Hicham Diop. Rachid Kassim, either. Not all of these people used a means of transportation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u53	The discussion can be interesting. It has already taken place in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u54	No, not on these elements, Mr. Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u55	Mr. Helllings, you didn't remember what I said before. You say that these people have not taken the means of transportation for which we would like to apply the NRP. They did not take the means of transport to commit their attack but, in the meantime or before, they took them, of course. That's why your reasoning doesn't hold. It's really interesting! They didn't take a means of transport. How old are these people and what did they do in their lives before they were either registered or attacked? Can you tell us today in plenary that they did not take the boat, the train or the plane? I'd like to know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u56	Mr Thiéry, the PNR is the correlation between databases (terrorism database, BNG, other databases, Banque-Carrefour, Office des Étrangers, etc.).). It happens that not all the people I mentioned went to the country where they committed the attack, France or Belgium, using one of these means of transport. Therefore, the Belgian PNR, or possibly French, would not have allowed these people to be arrested before they committed the attack. They may have taken this means of transport, but the NRP would not have been able to thwart the attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u57	Mr President, I wish the reporters every success in taking down all the names. Mr Hellings, I must say something. You make it appear as if we are saying to the majority and to the Minister that this draft law is a success and that all terrorist crimes will suddenly be permanently removed and nothing will ever happen again. I never said that. My fellow Members from the majority have never said that. I've never heard the Minister say that either. It is one of the measures we propose in the fight against terrorism, which we believe will certainly prove useful. Please stop that populist tone. I think that's really politically incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u58	That's totally true. A security policy is also an integral one. I think it's an incredibly insane logic. You've listed a whole list of terrorists. Quod erat protestantum that there is a lot of work to be done. The fact that nothing has happened through these transport modes would, in your opinion, mean that we should not do anything about it. So we must not act proactively, but we must wait for something to happen again before we can adopt a legislative text here. I think I can speak for the whole majority when I say that that logic is completely lacking in us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u59	Mr. Chair, I invite each of the speakers to listen to what the other said, as I do, because, Mr. Metsu, when I spoke about the failed Thalys attack, I referred to the justification for section 6. It is not my logic to open the NRP to trains or to say that the NRP could help prevent attacks, it is the logic of the minister and the government. The bill states that the objective of this indiscriminate collection of such data is to combat terrorism. It is not I who say it, it is the minister and, wrongly, the European Union! Note that everything that comes from the European Union is not necessarily good!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u61	At least one point. But I'm not sure we agree on what's not good. The Minister and his cabinet justify Article 6: "The incident in Thalys has once again demonstrated the importance of being able to trace the movements of certain individuals". This means that the failed attack in Thalys justifies the collection of data from the people who borrow it. You said that I was not talking about proportionality but about efficiency and utility. The measure must be useful and effective in justifying the placement in parentheses of a fundamental right, privacy. I demonstrate here that proportionality does not exist because this bill is not useful or effective for the purpose it has set itself, the fight against terrorism and serious cross-border crime. You denounce the logic of the minister and not my logic, which is the logic of an opposition parliamentarian who has never received a clear and clear answer to the question of how the Belgian NRP would have prevented a terrorist affair, whereas in the Verviers case, the existing methods made it possible to thwart the terrorist attack. I'd like to mention the murder of a policeman and his companion in the Yvelines. Larossi Abballa, a French citizen, already convicted in 2013, did not take any means of transport to commit his attack or before. During the attack on the church of Saint-Étienne in Rouvray, Normandy last summer, Abdel Malik Petitjean and Abdel Kermiche, both living in France and one of whom was part of an electronic bracelet, did not use means of transport covered by the law. I thus came to the failed attack of Notre-Dame de Paris in September 2016, Ines Madani, Ornella Guilligman, Sarah Hervouët and Amel Sakaou who were French residents did not take any means of transport. They tried to set gas cylinders on fire in a car parked next to Notre-Dame de Paris borrowed from the father of one of them. Finally, there was the attack on Osny prison – I did not remember this event – in which Bilal Taghi was involved. The latter was registered and did not use the means of transport concerned. In the Berlin bombing, the Franco-Belgian sector does not appear to be involved at this stage of the investigation. But no one can confirm it yet. I have just given you a list of 39 terrorists who have been fighting for four and a half years. Of these, 18 did what is called the hijra. In other words, they visited an area controlled by terrorist groups. Nine returned by plane. Four returned by another means of transport. Five returned by unknown means of transport. Minister, what justifies the indiscriminate and massive collection of data is these 39 terrorists and their journey. I have just shown you that legislation such as the one that is not only intrusive but also costly – it represents an investment of EUR 11 million. For this amount, I could give you many examples of much more effective public investment – is by no means justified. Indeed, the arguments that justify your bill collapse and melt like snow in the sun. Finally, Mr. Flahaux said that we were dogmatic. In my opinion, it is this project that is dogmatic. It is based on a myth that combating terrorism requires as much data as possible from as many citizens as possible. This is the point of view developed by the majority and the general philosophy of this project. Our point of view, and what has shown its effectiveness in previous terrorist cases, is the pragmatism that a certain colleague spoke of before; it is to have the relevant information about a limited number of people. I agree with what Mr Crusnière said: what is evident today in terrorism cases is that our police and intelligence services have the information, but this information is not dealt with. Here, we do not offer a tool that aims to untie the importance of the accessory; we aim to create an algorithm that will add sometimes irrelevant information about a series of people in the name of the fight against terrorism. In fact, reality, pragmatism and the work of our security services demonstrate that it is not more information they need, but better information. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not participate in the work in committee, but my colleagues, including this morning in the committee on the attacks, will allow me, on behalf of my group, to speak here on a political level. I recognize that we are experiencing a very serious collective threat. We need to strengthen our legal mechanisms, both European and national, in the face of terrorism. Among them, the NRP is an indispensable tool. As early as 2013, at the initiative of Belgium and France, 9 Ministers of the Interior or Justice, Germany, Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom and Sweden, wanted to speed up the implementation of this NRP in order to ensure the follow-up of persons travelling to and from Syria or other areas of conflict. Gilles de Kerchove, the European coordinator for the fight against terrorism, has advocated and continues to advocate for the establishment of this NRP. This has long been a European patina and it is true that the terrorist attacks in Europe have moved the lines. As you also pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, this directive emerged on 27 April 2016. I did not want to interrupt each other but, if it is important, it is also because there is every reason to believe that terrorists returning from Syria or other areas of conflict manage to blur the tracks by travelling from one country to another. In relation to this, I would like to give two examples. The first is that of the French national, Mehdi Nemmouche, who, returning from Syria, made detours through Asia and thus managed to blur the tracks by passing from one country to another. A second example is that of this French unemployed person without a judicial background who committed an attack in Belgium in 2012, if I remember correctly. He decided one morning to take the train because he had seen that in Belgium there were fines against full sail. He arrived in Molenbeek. He injured two police officers who avoided death. It is, in fact, a single man who, at one point, was caught by a radicalisation movement and who, one morning, took the train to come to Belgium. These are two examples, one international and the other intrabelgian. I certainly did not want to go into a whole series of files whose data are not necessarily known here in Parliament. I simply wanted to give these two examples that question and show how clearly the NRP is not a magic tool that will respond to all situations regarding the risk of terrorism. On the other hand, it can actually help in a number of cases. These two examples seem interesting to me in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u63	Indeed, Mrs Fonck, these are two interesting examples. I took Mehdi Nemmouche's card. I did not mention the whole of his card as it was taken up earlier, but in fact he stayed in Syria, Turkey and Malaysia. He even went through Algeria and Lebanon. He stopped in Bangkok and Singapore before landing in Frankfurt, where he disappeared. This is interesting because Mehdi Nemmouche was included in the SIS (Schengen Information System) database. This means that a little like Abdeslam, when he is controlled by a policeman and his identity document is confronted with the existing database in which he is mentioned, Mehdi Nemmouche could have been arrested, on that basis, in Frankfurt, when he first set foot in Europe, after his long journey to Asia and the Middle East. Based on the existing database and control mechanisms, Medhi Nemmouche could have been arrested, as Salah Abdeslam could have been, four times, in France, had the police carried out a check, and had she been able to confront that person's name and identity document with the SIS database in which he was mentioned. Here's for Mehdi Nemmouche. I think you did not say the name of this French unemployed person who came to Belgium to try to kill as many people as possible on the basis of incorrect information. You yourself say that this person was not known to the police. That's interesting. I hear the M.R. say, "Just fine!" We must not forget what the PNR is: it is the correlation, so the comparison, between a passenger database, on the one hand, and another database, on the other. That means, Mrs Fonck and ladies and gentlemen of the MR, that if this person were not known to the Belgian police services, or if he did not appear in a Belgian police, security or intelligence database, he would not have been arrested by the PNR. His name would have been included in the PNR database, but since his name was not known in another database, there would have been no hit, match, and therefore no efficiency of the PNR database. I believe that our existing means, such as the SIS database and the measures that could be taken on the basis of human information about the imminent nature of an attack or the preparation of an attack in a frequented place such as a train station, would allow us to temporarily control all passengers at the entrance to the trains, if there is a formal indication that such a person represents a danger in such a place. This is an efficient way of working! It has demonstrated its effectiveness in the past. It is faster and does not call for legislative changes like the one unfortunately voted on by the majority today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u64	Mr Hellings, is the NRP an absolute and unstoppable barrier? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I cannot agree with you and if you know a more efficient system, because if it is true that the one you are talking about is largely insufficient, then why not? But denying that these radicalized people and terrorists are scrambling the tracks and taking advantage of the breaches to blend into the crowd is a profound mistake and, in my view, it is denying the evidence. It is a tool that enables us to strengthen the fight against terrorism. I have never said - and the Ministers of Justice and the Interior at European level have never said this either - that it would be an unstoppable tool that would allow us to trace and spot without anyone escaping it or that it would allow us to spot all terrorists. That was not said either! When you hear Gilles de Kerchove, to cite an example outside of politics, pleading for years as the European counter-terrorism coordinator for the NRP, do you think he's telling anything? In this regard, I cannot follow you, Mr. Hellings. However, it is not possible to use the NRP or to imagine tools blindly. It is very important to protect privacy and find a balance (because that is what it is) between respect for privacy and strengthening the fight against terrorism. We support the NRP but a meaningful NRP. What does that mean? Almost everyone wants a PNR for boats. Some will argue: "Not trains, boats and buses!" But in this regard, does it make sense to imagine a PNR where in the end potential terrorists would be fired and then could take advantage of loopholes and other transport possibilities to go unnoticed and blend into the crowd?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u65	Mrs. Fonck, it's amazing! I have just shown you that the members of the Brussels, Verviers and Paris bombings industry had all rented vehicles. However, they are not covered by the PNR.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u66	Mr. Hellings, I know that. Of course they don't all take the train and some come by car! I live on the French border. Regularly, it is blocked on the highway. Mr. Minister of the Interior, I know that this is not the subject of the day, but I would like to tell you. That makes me laugh!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u67	That has nothing to do with it, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u68	Why does it make me laugh? You think the alleged terrorists don't use the highway. We're blocking honest users. Where do terrorists go? I'm just saying that there are gaps and loopholes everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u69	Let's go back to our sheep, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u70	Terrorists use small bushy roads to cross the meshes of the net.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u71	Mr President, I didn't have the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u72	Minister, I allowed myself this incise because Mr. Hellings took the argument out of my vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u73	You're drowning the fish, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u74	No, it's not drowning the fish. May I?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u75	I'll explain. You have just said, Mrs Fonck, that if we did not extend the NRP from aircraft to international trains, buses and boats, a terrorist candidate for an attack would not take the plane, but would turn to these other means of transport. That's your reasoning. I reply to you that the NRP does not concern, and for obvious reasons of efficiency, individual vehicles. The terrorists will turn to them, as demonstrated by the attacks in Paris and Brussels. These terrorists took individual vehicles and did not use the train, boat, bus or plane.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u76	But, Mr Hellings, they will not return from Syria or from some areas of conflict by individual vehicle, especially when they want to jam the tracks and transit through a whole series of countries. Moreover, if you are proposing or if we find a well-functioning, balanced system which, in the future, would also allow us to have a proportional control over individual vehicle rentals or individual vehicles, we will have to study it. We can't do a PNR today on everything. Is it enough, then, to stand still, not to do anything until you have a perfect system? Is there a perfect system today in terms of combating terrorism? No! The evidence is Berlin, Zurich. I am not going to repeat what happened a week ago in Egypt, Istanbul and elsewhere. This threat is a constant threat on the shoulders of citizens today. In relation to this, we do not have an absolute weapon, but we must move forward. If there were only some crazy politicians, as you seem to think, who wanted that, I wonder why Gilles de Kerchove pleaded so strongly. I think that's an argument because I'm certainly not an expert on terrorism, but he is. You have to at least recognize him. If you'll allow me, I'll go on. I was saying we wanted a PNR that makes sense, not just limited to aircraft. That makes quite sense to me. This law is a framework law. I will therefore allow myself a few additional comments. First, of course, I can hear some reluctance. Moreover, following the letter from the three European Commissioners, last week we supported and also tabled amendments for referral to the Council of State. Two things in relation to that. First, of course, I have read the opinions of the Council of State. They're pretty reassuring. Then I heard what you said earlier. You have met with the European Commissioners. I think it would be interesting to have additional information on their position. In fact, since they wrote us a letter that was actually appealing, they might re-adjust their point of view and their new point of view could also be written. I think that would be an important element in this debate. There is also a whole series of questions, Minister, which absolutely must be resolved. First, what will be the applicability and operationality of the different types of transport? There are, of course, questions about the fact that some may be taking transportation along the way, minister. Or what happens when a terrorist presupposition decides to take a last minute? These are two examples, perhaps there are others. The issue of operationality, so that we can be as effective as possible, remains full and complete. It will obviously have to be put on the table and discussed not only with the different transport sectors, but also with Europe. This is the first aspect: applicability, operationality. Everything remains to be settled. Secondly, coordination at European level. We're not an island. We cannot continue to isolate ourselves on a European scale. You have had contacts with the European Commissioners. But beyond that, I would like to challenge the Belgian Government, and in this case you as the Minister of the Interior, to convince Europe of this extension of the NRP to other types of transport. Again, if Belgium works alone, we will not be effective. We can only be effective - we have enough borders - if this enlargement is carried by all European countries or at least by a number of them. I recalled in 2013 the progress made and the fact that some countries had decided to go further with this mechanism. Finally, for us, it is important that there be an evaluation. This assessment is planned within three years of the entry into force of the scheme. For us, it is important that this assessment check whether these measures are effective in the fight against terrorism, whether the extension of the scope of the directive is useful, effective or perhaps counter-productive; whether the significant breaches of privacy identified by the Privacy Commission in its first opinion are proportionate to the objectives sought. Indeed, I recalled earlier, it is a matter of finding a balance between the two. Finally, it will be necessary to check whether the controls carried out for API data are at the borders of the Schengen area and not at the Belgian borders. We will therefore be vigilant on these various aspects, while supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u77	Mr. Chairman, this bill is ineffective in the fight against terrorism and is contrary to the fundamental rights of citizens. I would say that it is a blind collection of data, an unnecessary massive control rather than a targeted collection of data and correct monitoring of information. Currently, there are at least seven passenger control data banks in Europe, such as the Schengen Information System, the Visa Information System, the General National Data Bank (BNG) in Belgium. These databases are, in theory, if used effectively, sufficient to identify potential terrorists. The problem is to be able to analyse these data. Several terrorists who committed the attacks in Paris have been controlled, their movements have been reported, but they have been found not to be a threat. If the PNR system had existed, the results of the investigations, both preventive and later, would have been the same. Dennis Broeders, professor at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, quotes: "When we look at recent attacks, the record is always the same. There was no talk of a lack of information or listening, intelligence services complaining about receiving too much data rather than too little." This analysis is shared by many other attentive observers or specialists. I can quote you Beatrice de Graaf, professor at the University of Utrecht, or Alexis Deswaef, president of the League of Human Rights. The costs of the NRP are enormous. The transport companies will have to provide additional storage space for the encoding and transmission of all passenger data. The cost to the State is estimated at €13 million for three years. But there is also a cost for passengers. According to the European Commission, a comparable measure in Denmark and Sweden for rail traffic resulted in travel time increasing from 10 to 60 minutes while the number of passengers decreased by 16%. As for the economic cost of controls, it amounted to EUR 300 million. It is because this measure is ineffective, costly and difficult to implement practically that European Commissioners have been critical of this bill. They sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior who ignored it and who came here to explain that this letter was about an old version of the bill. We must believe the minister on the floor because we have not been made aware of the various exchanges of letters. As I had the opportunity to tell Mr Flahaux, the concern of the Minister of Mobility, François Bellot, was even noted. In fact, I asked him in committee about this. He replied that he had become aware of many concerns, including those of certain rail transport operators and the European Railway Community. "I have already said," he said, "of these concerns and mine during the discussions around the bill." Clearly, the Minister of the Interior swept away this opposition from his own government. I would also like to quote Giovanni Buttarelli, European Data Protection Supervisor, who said: "The NRP has become an icon of the fight against terrorism, but, in addition to its symbolic value, this system is not very useful. The costs are enormous and the very long implementation deadlines do not meet the needs of law enforcement in an emergency phase as we know it today." In short, to conclude, I repeat, this measure is ineffective, costly, difficult to implement practically, but it is also dangerous for the rights of our people. Public freedoms are likely to be seriously undermined if every citizen taking a plane, a TGV, an international bus or a boat is found not because he or she represents a particular risk, but simply because he or she wants to travel. Moreover, there is concern that these mass data may be used to monitor the travels or movements of political or trade union opponents who, from near or far, have nothing to do with terrorism. In any case, in France, the extension of emergency measures against environmental activists clearly shows that the fight against terrorism is also used as a pretext to suppress social protests. These are the reasons why we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate in this plenary and also in committee. We have had a good debate on an important draft law, which is one of the elements in the fight against terrorism, but not the only one. This element is also seen at European and international level as an essential part of the fight against terrorism. Mrs Fonck rightly referred to Gilles de Kerchove's competence in this area, which has repeatedly stressed the need to implement such a system. I am confident that I recognise his knowledge and skills, and we will follow his advice. I would like to address one of the key elements of this debate, which has evolved since our discussions in committee: the famous letters from the three European Commissioners. You know them, since you've received them all. In his July 2016 letter, the Director-General of DG Mobility & Transport (DG Move) expressed concern about the impact of the transposition of the EU Directive into Belgian law and more specifically for international transport on high-speed buses and trains. I replied and on 28 October we also received a letter from three Commissioners, Mrs Bulc, Mr Avramopulos and Mr King. In my response, I made it clear that I wanted to participate in a consultation on the impact of the future PNR legislation. Pending this consultation, I have made some answers to the remarks and concerns of the three Commissioners mentioned in their above-mentioned letter. You all know that the preliminary draft does not require identity checks, but only a check of the compliance between the passenger's identity and the name indicated on the travel document. The study on safety measures to be taken in the rail sector is one of the measures to improve safety. The more we take action in this regard, the more security will be ensured. The above study does not exclude the PNR system; both are necessary and go hand in hand. I also mentioned in my reply that the Belgian law PNR is a framework law that will be enforced by royal decrees. To this end, there will be collaboration and discussion with all relevant partners. Mrs Fonck, that means the sectors, the European level and the countries concerned. On the other hand, I stressed that the Royal Decrees will take into account the specificity of each sector and that the intention is to strike a balance between the security and commercial interests of each sector. I then indicated that Belgium is involved in consultations with the European Commission and the informal PNR working group and is also involved in a dialogue with neighbouring countries on the application of the directive to other sectors. On 5 December, therefore, quite recently, following my reply to this letter, a meeting was held with representatives of DGs Accueil and Move. DG Home expressed its satisfaction with Belgium's constructive cooperation within the PNR Working Group and its hard work on the transposition of the PNR Directive. Representatives were specifically asked about the problems with our preliminary draft. DG Home indicated a problem with Article 7 which would require an identity check. This problem was solved by stressing that the preliminary draft requires a compliance check and not an identity check. There was also a problem with the sanctions provided for in article 45. It is now framed by the fact that these are maximum amounts and by the fact that the withdrawal of the carrier's authorisation has been withdrawn from the sanctions. DG Home and DG Move indicated that the meeting was very enlightening. There has been an incomprehension on these two articles, but things are resolved. Belgium also participated in the December 12 meeting on the implementation of the PNR Directive. A meeting with neighbouring countries on high-speed trains and maritime transport was scheduled for 13 December. So we don't work in isolation. At that meeting, it was decided that a common approach should be adopted to these modes of transport. It was agreed to formalize to carriers by approaching them as a group. All participants agree with this approach. Finally, I would like to refer to the meeting that was scheduled last Monday with Mr Julian King, but we had the committee of inquiry, so I had to postpone this meeting until January 2017. I think that with this I have been able to clarify the criticisms of Europe. Mr Crusnière, it is not true that Belgium is the only country that thinks of expanding the number of modes of transport. We will participate alongside other countries. To imagine that Belgium would do it alone makes no sense. To be effective in this type of work, we need to work with other countries, and if other countries do not want to, that makes no sense. We are talking about a framework law, which has to be completed. Mr Buysrogge, you asked me when the consultation would take place. As I said in committee, we will first tackle the royal decision for the aviation sector. That consultation is under way, and the KB is as good as done. Once that KB has been implemented, we will talk to the following sectors. Once again, at European level, a number of countries are grouped together for consultation with the sector. The aim is to strike a balance between the commercial feasibility of the project, including for the transport sector, and safety. If we do not get out of there, it will not be implemented if necessary. But I repeat, this is a framework law. Mr Hellings, we have exchanged our ideas and I do not think I will convince you. We are separated by an ideological barrier and despite all the arguments you have put forward, you cannot convince me. I thank you for the rich debate that took place and made it possible to make the various points of view known. Mrs Fonck, I think I have answered your questions by informing you of all the elements relating to the European plan. Thank you for the courage shown by the opposition in voting on this important bill. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u79	Indeed, Minister, our views are irreconcilable, but I have asked you two questions. On the one hand, I wanted to know more about the Times Square bombing. At least I would have wanted to know when it might have taken place, even a period of time. When was it planned? How many people were involved? It is still an important element of your argument that deserves a clear answer. Of course, we must not have the name of the person. That goes without saying. On the other hand, you did not answer an essential question. In the implementation of this law, among other things through Article 7, which opens up, which expands the NRPs from air to rail and other means of transport, do you foresee the possibility of buying last-minute train, bus or boat tickets in order to comply with the principle of free movement, as repeated during your meeting with the European Commissioners? I insist. Why? Because, in the case of the missed Thalys attack, Ayoub El Khazzani bought a last-minute train ticket at 149 euros from the Midi train station. Therefore, having a PNR without removing the possibility of buying a train ticket at the last minute, this misses the PNR's objective of arresting a terrorist before he commits an attack because it will be identified by the correlation of the PNR database with another database. It is important that you can at least clarify your intentions in this area because it justifies or does not justify the alleged effectiveness of the system that you put to the vote here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u80	Mr. Hellings, here are two points of answer. On the one hand, as I have said on several occasions, we are starting the dialogue on the "train" mode of transport with the other countries and with the sector. Therefore, I do not know where this will lead us. I hear very well what you say about last minute tickets but we can be faced with problems or obstacles during implementation. This is part of the ongoing consultation with the sector and other European countries. I'll let you know. On the other hand, in your reasoning, you analyze past cases and say that they could not have been avoided with the NRP. For my part, I don't look at past facts. I'm looking at the possibilities for the future. My concern is the future attacks. I'm not going back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u81	Minister, this is once again a beautiful slogan! You used in the discussion between you and me, the argument of the attacks in New York on September 11, 2001. I'm not the one who took this argument, it's you! So don't tell me you're only interested in the future! You are interested in the past, and that is what justifies the implementation of a PNR directive for aircraft. The attacks of the past justify Article 6, namely the extension of NRPs from aircraft to trains. What you claim is false. A series of rules are now at our disposal to prevent attacks in the future, inspired by the past. As such, Verviers is an indisputable success story for our intelligence and police services that demonstrate that the current rules and laws are sufficient to manage this matter in order to effectively counter these criminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u83	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2069/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2069/7) The draft law contains 55 articles. The bill has 55 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u84	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u85	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 4, 7 and 29 .
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u86	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5, 6, 8 to 28, 30 to 55.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u87	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u91	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2151/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2151/4) The inscription in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft law transferring ship registration and ship mortgage retention." "Lessintitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission en "Design for the transfer of ship registration and ship mortgage preservation'. The draft law has 27 articles. The bill has 27 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u94	For this draft too, I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2206/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2206/3) The draft law has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Hellings and Mr Dallemagne. I assume they refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2189/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2189/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip148x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents will begin in four and a half minutes. As a result, we are now interrupting our work in this plenary session and we will resume it at 2:15 p.m. with the draft bill on the tax shelter for the theatre arts. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
