ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u1	Madam President, first of all, I thank you and my colleagues for agreeing that this question can be asked today. I would also like to thank the Minister for her willingness to depart from her agenda of questions proposed to her. May 17 is a day against homophobia, which I had the pleasure of initiating in 2004, while I was a Walloon MP. A resolution was adopted by the Walloon Parliament on this request which I made to you, more than a year ago. At the time, I asked you about the opportunity to revise the criteria for the lifetime exclusion of blood donation for men who had sex with other men, as is the case in other countries such as Australia, Japan or the United Kingdom. I never hid my homosexuality nor my desire to give blood. However, in this country, any person aged 18 to 70 years and in good health can give his blood. I still consider myself healthy and HSH are still unable to give their blood to "guarantee transfusion safety" today. You said you shared my view that, in this regard, what should be considered is not sexual orientation, but at-risk practices that promote HIV transmission, in which I shared your analysis. You also informed me that, following the submission of my question, you had sought the opinion of the Higher Council of Health to decide on the appropriateness and possible conditions of a blood donation authorization for men who have sex with other men. Madam Minister, as you know, we look forward to the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health, because we believe that it is high time to put an end to this discrimination in the prohibition of blood donation for men who have sex with other men. Can you tell me if this opinion was given? If not, when can he be? Are you able to share his findings with us? Are you now considering taking specific measures in this regard? I know there is a large gay community that would appreciate a positive response to this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u2	Madam President, Minister, several colleagues have already asked questions about this in the past, including Mrs Van Peel and Mr Senesael. So it is not surprising that these people are again asking a question about this. The problem has just been outlined by a colleague, so I must stop giving my introduction. I would like to stress once again that on 29 April 2015, the European Court of Justice delivered a remarkable ruling in France, in particular that scientific evidence should first be provided as to whether there are any real risks. The Court also wonders whether there are no better detection tests. Madam Minister, do you agree with the ruling of the European Court of Justice or not? If so, under what conditions do you propose exclusion? Do you agree with me that this should never be life forever, but only temporarily? Secondly, is Belgium involved in the scientific research into blood donation of men who have sex with other men? If so, which Belgian universities are involved? Are they also investigating better detection tests? Thirdly, when do you expect advice from the FAGG and certainly from the High Health Council? Finally, do you have any further information for us on the work of the Council of Europe Task Force working on recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u3	Madam President, Minister, most of it has indeed already been said. When we had this debate in committee last time, the Red Cross, following a ruling by the Dutch College of Human Rights, had indicated that it was not in favour of an amendment. They were excluded on the basis of a technical reason and, of course, the safety of the blood was put first for the recipient. I think everyone agrees that this is a very important factor that should be at the forefront. At that time, you were right to say that you want to enter into the debate and that it is important to check whether the current criteria are really absolutely necessary and whether there are any steps to be taken. You said at the time that you had asked for advice from the Supreme Health Council and from the services of the FAGG. You also referred to a consultation that would be held between your cabinet and the blood establishments. My questions, which correspond to those of my colleagues, are as follows. Have you received the advice in the meantime? If so, what does it say? What are the results of the consultation with the blood establishments? Is there a willingness to think with it? What are their views now? What is your position? In the meantime, is there any scientific evidence of an evolution? If so, in what direction? How do you see this evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important subject that has been going on in this committee for many years. I believe, however, that we have made a great deal of progress recently to bring about an adjustment. The draft opinion of the Higher Council of Health was presented to a group of stakeholders later this month. On Friday, 27 May, a round table will be held in the presence of the various experts from the parties concerned, experts from the Higher Council of Health, the Scientific Institute of Public Health (which has the latest scientific results), blood transfusion establishments and Unia (previously called the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities), as well as ethicists, sociologists and representatives of the organization Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Transexual and Intersex. This is going to have to be a long name, but there are a lot of different groups of people involved. They are invited, on this occasion, to have the opportunity to present their views. At the end of all these conversations, I will close the session. We will then decide on the next step and how to do it. It will be followed, of course, by the various opinions of the Round Table. The scientific information is there and we can use it, but we also need to know what leads to the social debate. The reflection between the two will be there. Mrs van Peel, we will always be concerned about the safety of transfusion medicine in our country, that is obvious. However, we will also try to start political decision-making and to analyse the legal initiatives to be taken in the area of regulation. We will also have to provide for other accompanying measures, including the correct treatment of the candidate donors and the avoidance of the discrimination they are currently experiencing. Mr Senesael, you have said this every time: for you, it is like discrimination. You are in good health, you are careful and you also want to give blood. Of course, we are thinking in particular of the exclusion criteria, which are now really for life. There are not many things that are valid until the end of life, but that is one. I expect a lot from the round table, because it is also the first time that the scientific associations, our policy support organisations and all the actors involved are around the same table. I really think it could be a step forward. In the meantime, of course, we have had many bilateral talks with all the parties involved, not least with the cross-organisations that organise blood transfusion services in our country, but also with the responsibility for the safety of the transfused blood. So I am hopeful, not euphoric, because I cannot know what is going to be said, but we have a good feeling about it and I think we will be able to take a big step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u5	Thank you, Madam Chair, for allowing this issue to be debated. Madam Minister, I will be very clear. Thanks first. I think that this meeting on 27 May with the various participants you have just mentioned is an important step. When you close this meeting, minister, for just three seconds, think of me! Not every homosexual is unfaithful. Every homosexual is not disrespectful. Every homosexual is not inattentive. Why a categorization for this kind of person? I would remind you that this is more than 10% of the population. I can tell you that I believe in fidelity, that I am very respectful and that I am very attentive to others, even attentive. If you could think of that when you're about to finish your work, I'd appreciate it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u6	I don't doubt it! (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u7	I can't get along with this. I really can't compete with this. I'd like to make the same promises in terms of loyalty and such, but I have other cats to fling. Madam Secretary, have you received any advice from the FAGG outside the round table? What is the state of play at Belgian universities? I understand if you still want to wait, because it's all taken in the round table,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u8	I have a bilateral contact with one of the universities involved tomorrow. In any case, they are also consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u9	Forgive me for not joining in with all these personal defiances. I will think of Mr Senesael once in a while, because I understand what he means, of course. As has been said on many occasions in this committee, no one here supports a discriminatory factor in this story. We gotta get that stinger out. The priority remains security. That doesn't have to be at odds with taking steps. However, this means that the steps must be very well thought out and well-founded. I am therefore very pleased with the initiative of that round table. I think that there will be the right partners at the table to see what is the best way forward. By the way, I suspect you already have a few scenarios in your head, Madam Secretary. We'd like to hear more from you afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u10	As I said to Mr Senesael, I understand his impatience. We have worked towards a compromise in bilateral contacts, but it would be disrespectful to organise a round table but to anticipate the results. I really do have an optimistic feeling about it and I think he'll be very happy Friday night. I'll bring him up to speed in person.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u11	Especially since, in ten years' time, I'm going to have to plead to raise the age. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u12	It's endless, Mr. Senesael!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u13	It's never too late. We also raised the age for pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u14	We must be consistent to the end. We'll send the centres to the rest homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u15	We have to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u16	Yes, to empty them with their blood!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u17	And we'll empty them with their blood. All right. In any case, we look forward to your measurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u18	We have recently spoken about the Mental Health Care Bill. And laughter is also a cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u20	Madam President, I am sorry to have arrived late, but coordination with the Committee of Inquiry is not easy. Madam Minister, following the tragic events of this 22nd March that have bereaved our country and those of 13th November 2015 in Paris, many issues have been raised, including the ability of our hospitals to cope with a significant flow of victims and the optimal care of these multi-trauma patients. The shooting of Place Saint-Lambert in Liège in 2011 had already highlighted it. As you know, severe trauma is the leading cause of death for under-45s in industrialized countries, and the leading cause of death for under-40s in Belgium. They are mainly due to road accidents, work accidents, sports or domestic accidents, but also to attacks with a white weapon or fire. As a result, these patients have lesions that threaten their life expectancy or are likely to cause a significant disabling disability. In its publications, the National Institute of Statistics reported 7,000 deaths from all causes of trauma in Belgium in 2012. In 2014, 41,481 road accidents were recorded, resulting in a total of 53,975 casualties, of which 727 were killed within 30 days of the accident. The quality and speed of management of the severe traumatized patient inevitably condition the patient's survival and the occurrence of possible complications. In countries where trauma centers have existed for several years, there has been a significant decrease in mortality and disabling injuries. In Britain, for example, since the establishment of these centres three years ago, mortality has fallen by almost 40 per cent, which is an area of concern. Minister, the coordination and optimisation of care as it is organised in a single centre with all disciplines is apparently the guarantee of better care for the traumatized patient. What is your position on this matter? Do you think that this could be an added value in our current care system? Are you considering the establishment and recognition of such centres for the overall management of multi-trauma patients? Do you think about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u21	With regard to the care of multi-trauma patients, I would like first of all to express my thanks to the attendants, paramedics, nurses and doctors who took care of the victims on 22 March, but also to all the victims in general. As for the path of trauma centers, I await the results of the study conducted by the KCE to take a position on whether this type of institution can offer our care system added value. It's interesting that you're talking about this. We must look at what is being done elsewhere, like in Britain, for example. The study will give us a lot of information. In the meantime, let us look at what is happening in our neighbouring countries. It is important to know what can actually be done. Our health care system is not the same as that applied in Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u22	Minister, of course, I share what you have just said with regard to health care workers. I have just spent hours listening to the testimony of stakeholders on March 22. There are certainly things to be improved, but overall, in terms of medical aid, people have done everything they can under horrible conditions, a real war situation, to which even an experienced doctor is not prepared. My question was more general, even though it also concerns this type of event. I have identified two very concrete elements in your response, Madam Minister. First, when will the results of the KCE study arrive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u23	I will ask my staff member at the firm, who has the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u24	It would be nice of you to give me the answer. In terms of gathering information, Madam President, could we not already try to see how this is happening in other countries such as Great Britain, even if I know that the social security systems are not the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u25	I assume that the firm and/or KCE also carry out a survey of experiences in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u26	They bring together all the examples from our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u27	We will follow that. If you can provide us with the date of the KCE's opinion, as well as the overall schedule, this may be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u28	Madam Minister, the number of people with diabetes worldwide has quadrupled over the last 30 years from 108 million in 1980 to 422 million in 2014. This is one of the elements of a major research report on diabetes published by The Lancet at the end of March. Especially type 2 diabetes is on a strong march. The report gives Belgium more or less good points, but both the ageing population and the discoloration of the population have an effect on diabetes and its increase in our own country. Madam Secretary, my questions go back to the report by The Lancet and my previous question on the ending diabetes convention. I would therefore like to put the following questions to you. At the time, you stressed that the discussions with the RIZIV on the diabetes convention were in the right direction. What's the status today? Have any buttons been cut yet? Regarding the figures of The Lancet, what about the prevalence of people with diabetes in Belgium? There is little consensus on this. The World Health Organisation has repeatedly asked for a national coordinated plan in our country. Is that what you're doing? How is cooperation with the Länder? Finally, there is no consensus among experts on the fact that certain medications lead to an increased risk of hypoglycaemia. Is it being investigated which medicines they are? Can there not be a reduction in the number of medicines on the market today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u29	Madam Minister, my question is limited to the development of the diabetes register, a question that was already raised in November 2014. In January, a colleague in this committee asked another question about this. You then confirmed that you would develop such a register along with a preliminaries for diabetics. What is the state of play, both as regards the development of the diabetes register and as regards the preliminaries? When would this be a concrete step forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Van Camp, in our country half a million people have type 2 diabetes. It is important that there are fewer patients with type 1 diabetes. The new care model for the follow-up of a patient with type 2 diabetes, also referred to as the preliminary pathway, entered into force on 1 February 2016. It aims to better guide patients with type 2 diabetes from diagnosis of the disease to inclusion in a care pathway or an agreement. In other words, we are going to intervene earlier, from an increased determination of the levels of glycaemia. They are entitled immediately to reimbursement of certain dietary and podology provisions prescribed by the general practitioner. Also in the recognition of podologists, the fact that they can give good care to patients with diabetes and thus prevent worse has played a role. The new diabetes agreement will come into force on 1 July 2016. It clearly makes a difference between patients with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. The agreement also defines the target groups differently from the current agreement. For diabetics with type 1, a full refund is provided if they wish to use new measurement technologies. Patients will have the choice between using the classic method and the new measuring technologies, where there is much less need to prick. These can be patches but also the pumps, which measure at the same time and know how much they need to inject. It also provides for the possibility of a flexible transition from one method to another. The type 2 diabetics will be eligible for these new measurement technologies, but they will have to pay the extra cost themselves. In practice, however, these patients will not have to pay for the full cost of the new measuring technology because they will use less classic water trays. The lower cost of this can also be deducted. The prices in the new agreement will take into account the current cost of the material and the necessary diabetes education. Dealing with the new material is being taught. For the calculation of prices, the number of glycaemia strips needed by the various groups of diabetic patients has also been re-established. There is no mandatory registration of persons with the diagnosis of diabetics except for the follow-up of a patient with type 2 diabetes pathway, type 2 diabetes care pathway and the diabetes convention. The research into the health of the population is part of the mission of the Scientific Institute for Public Health (WIV) and is also specifically conducting a number of studies in the context of diabetes. Here, among other things, the WIV-Health Surveys and the comparative studies of diabetes prevalence based on different sources within the KU Leuven, Intego and also the WIV-House level practices are important. Finally, monitoring of care quality and epidemiological studies of patients with diabetes in a specific care setting, such as conventions and care pathways, will also take place. Each of these studies allows for an assessment of the prevalence of diabetes with certain advantages and disadvantages. At present, the most reliable source to know the number of diabetic patients in Belgium is Farmanet. Registration is mandatory. In 2014, according to this registry, 549,065 patients had a medical treatment for diabetes with at least 80 defined daily dose (DDD). Farmanet data do not allow a distinction to be made between patients with type 1 diabetes and type 2. Since there are diabetic patients who do not have medical treatment, the number is likely to be higher and there are still people who have not yet been diagnosed. Mrs Van Peel, you are asking for a national diabetes register. Well, the eHealth Action Plan 2015-2018 provides for an inventory and consolidation of the registers including consolidation of data from clinical biology laboratories. For this purpose, the Healthdata.be department was established within the WIV. Based on these centralised data, the exact incidence of the number of diabetic patients will be known. With regard to a national diabetes plan, I would like to point out that in the RIZIV, a working group of the insurance committee has the task of developing multidisciplinary integrated patient centre initiatives for chronic care in the first line, which cross-cutting across the different healthcare sectors. Initially, these are aimed at patients with type 2 diabetes who can achieve the most health benefits in the proposed intervention. These initiatives are complementary to the integrated care plan for chronically ill. In addition, the protocol agreement of 21 March 2016 on prevention exists. This pays particular attention to the importance of healthy diets in preventing diabetes. For example, we also look at the beverages with too high sugar content. Diabetes is and will remain a chronic disease that evolves but in which it is established that the patient will have to be treated for his continued life. The availability of different classes of antidiabetic agents is therefore an added value that the physician will allow to develop individual treatment for the patient. The aim is to achieve optimal therapeutic efficacy for each patient with as few undesirable side effects as possible. In addition, controlling diabetes leads to a better quality of life for the patient. In order to improve the treatment of diabetic patients, the Commission's Meeting of Medicinal Products carried out a group review last year as regards the reimbursement conditions for the gliptins that were harmonised. They currently do the same with incretin mimetics or GLP-1 analogues whose cost-effectiveness safety report is available. To sum up, we can say that a lot of work is being done on diabetes in our country. As far as the fight is concerned, we are actually bringing together the forces and the measures. These are preventive measures, as well as treatment and epidemiological studies including registration. It is true that we already have a reasonably coherent policy, but of course we can still improve it. As you said, Mrs Van Hoof, we are among the better students of the class. That does not mean that we can rest on our laurels, as you have said. We must continue to evaluate this policy and, where necessary, continue to improve its quality. It is also true that there have been a lot of changes recently in treatment methods, especially for children. That is why we have also split up the funds. For type 1 diabetes, however, it is a smaller group with more expensive items such as measuring devices and injectors. However, if a child can be given as good control as with four, or even without one, then of course that also means a better quality of life for that child. We looked at this as a matter of priority. For type 2 it is more about medicine, follow-up and guidance. A major investment has also been made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. We are not among the poorest students in the class, but we should be among the best. Efforts can therefore be stepped up. Everyone in his circle of acquaintance does have people who got type 2 diabetes at a later age. So this is something that people are working very hard on in terms of health and nutrition. More intensive efforts are therefore needed. If the WHO asks for a national plan to be drawn up, this means that we are not meeting it today, I suspect. You didn't mention that. However, you are talking about your coordinated vision at the level of the RIZIV and the Medicines Committee. The question is whether this is enough for the WTO to serve as a national plan. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u32	I'll check it out. The co-ordination is here. I think this will fit in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u33	Then the question is, if it doesn't work out, why it doesn't. Maybe I'll come back to that in another question. Then the counseling of medication. I have the impression that this is happening, but that there is a need for continued alertness in this respect, given the development of the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and for the efforts that are being made. They are indeed very important and are in progress at various yards. With regard to the preliminaries, I understand that the refunds include only dieticians and podologists. It's kind of weird that the diabetes educator hasn't been caught up at that early stage. With regard to WIV registration, I believe that we will finally make great progress. This can certainly be extended to other areas as well. In the Netherlands you can find the CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, where you can find all the data about the Dutch online. I hope that with such registration we will be able to evolve in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u35	The diabetes educator doesn't apply until you're in the convention. That's at a later stage. Now we have all the dietists and multidisciplinary cooperation. We had a project with the general practitioners in which we let an educator come into our retirement home for a day on referral. We paid for it with the family doctor's circle with five municipalities next to each other. That's another matter, isn't it? I do not think this can already apply to this broad route.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u36	Minister, the laying of high-voltage cables on a communal territory invariably leads to questions on the part of many residents, who point to the risk of exposure to too much electromagnetic radiation, which could harm their health. This is particularly the case in Schaerbeek, as well as in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, where Elia arranged the placement of a cable in the basement and connecting rooms in certain areas. However, the municipality of Schaerbeek decided, in application of the precautionary principle, to temporarily suspend the work of one of the yards, on the ground that it did not have the assurance that the average value of 0.4 microtesla would not be exceeded in the dwellings in the event of energisation. This value is recalled by the Higher Council of Health, in particular in its opinion No. 8081 of 1 October 2008, entitled "Recommendations concerning the exposure of the population to magnetic fields emanating from electrical installations". It states that "in view of the current uncertainties, the Higher Council of Health considers that exposure to magnetic fields emitted by electrical installations should be limited, especially in children under 15 years of age, and should not exceed the average value of 0.4 microtesla". The CSS reveals that while the typical exposure levels of the general population are between 0.01 and 0.2 microtesla, 1 to 2% of the Belgian population would be exposed to 0.4 microtesla and above, and in particular 1.36% of children who would be exposed to 0.4 microtesla and more by the proximity of high voltage lines and cables. It was estimated that exposure to 50 Hz magnetic fields would be responsible for less than 1% to 4% of all cases of childhood leukemia in industrialized countries. Without prejudice to the normative and regulatory measures that can be taken in this case at the level of the Brussels Region, can the Minister inform me, in terms of public health, whether this problem has been or is being thoroughly analysed by her services? If so, can she tell me whether specific recommendations are made for this purpose in terms of potential risks to the population, beyond the brochure presented by the Public Health FPS? Will this dossier be the subject of consultation with the Minister of Energy, responsible for the activities of Elia, the Belgian electricity transmission system operator? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u37	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your question. Indeed, my services follow all scientific research on the influence of the electromagnetic field on health, within the limits of federal jurisdiction and the missions assigned to them. It was an important subject at the time when we were starting to have gsms. We then had a lot of questions in this committee. Current scientific studies provide no evidence that long-term exposure to this type of electromagnetic field could cause infant leukemia. There is no new evidence to report on this issue at this time and WHO has not reviewed its position since the publication of the 2007 monograph on the possible health effects of exposure to low-frequency electric and magnetic fields. In this monograph, WHO recommends using conservative strategies, but not reducing the limit values in the standards, given the uncertainty about the existence of the facts. The development of such a strategy, including an in-depth preparatory analysis, is indeed a matter for the Regions in terms of environmental protection and the competence of my federal colleague, the Minister of Energy. Nevertheless, our services are very attentive. As soon as something moves within the WHO or in another country, indeed, it is a concern that comes back regularly in this committee. It remains current, but when we don't have sound scientific results, we don't know how to do anything. Just be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u38	It's a bit complicated too; it's very technical. I had to ask the question, but that's it! It's up to everyone to stay alert and do things the way they feel. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u39	And to organize a vigilance, because there are really exposure crosses...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u40	Gsm is a good example. We don't yet know the scope of all this on our brains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u41	There is a category of people known as "electrosensitive". Minister, I will ask my question at 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked several questions on this subject. I would like to return to a specific question that I asked a while ago. To replace or rinse a heparin lock at a gate catheter, a home nurse receives 4.5 euros, which does not even cover the cost of the material. The payment for the same operation in the day hospital amounts to about 30 euros. Another example is to give a vaccination, which a nurse will now be able to administer without a doctor. You will agree with me as a doctor that after vaccination an observation of the patient is required for 15 minutes, in view of possible allergic or anaphylactic reactions, which nevertheless have an incidence of 3 in 1 million. Vaccination will be reimbursed under the nomenclature injection in the home care sector, with a fee of EUR 4.5, less than EUR 5 for a performance that takes at least 20 minutes. I am not talking about relocation and other costs, which are of course not included. The average cost per hour of a nurse is 45 euros, which, translated for a performance of 20 minutes, should generate a fee of 15 euros. These are just a few concrete examples which, in my view, show the problem very well. You announced that you would save and reform in the hospital sector and focus more on transmural and outpatient care. The N-VA is totally behind that shift. I have the following questions for you. Exactly where are we on your plans? In the meantime, are things such as the intravenous administration of antibiotics, the administration of parenteral nutrition, chemo, dialysis etc. more frequent at home? We also wonder in what way you use the shift to home care. In particular, we wonder whether you think that the difference in remuneration for the same performance, referring to the examples I mentioned about birth, catheter, vaccination and so on, is acceptable? Are you actually planning to do something about this so that the home nursing sector, which can provide us with important savings if we put more effort into it, gets the deserved and necessary upgrade? Finally, I would also like to focus on the specific pilot projects. Have they started in the meantime? In particular, I was afraid that the home nurses would like to start pilot projects of this kind, but that they would run into a njet of care institutions, because they would then have to cut back on inpatient care and therefore income. Do you share that determination with me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u43	Mrs Van Camp, you have a lot of questions, so you will also receive some answers. As far as chronic care is concerned, transmural care is indeed used. The aim is, of course, to set up pilot projects in cooperation with home care but also, of course, in transmural cooperation with hospitals. We also work with pilot projects for the reform of hospitals, which also play an important role for home nurses. After the first series of pilot projects involving a short hospital stay, where there is plenty of cooperation with home care before and after delivery, and the designation of seven pilot projects in February of this year, another project call for pilot projects will be launched at the end of this month or early next month, namely those that frame home hospitalization. As you know, before we came to these subjects, we also made calls to know what the need is on the ground and where the will to work out pilot projects is present. The project will consist of two variants, namely a project specific to the possibility of intravenous administration of antibiotics and a project where other home hospitalisation proposals can be submitted, such as intravenous administration, intravenous chemotherapy, parenteral nutrition or other. The call for projects, like the previous one, will be widely distributed and all interested parties can make proposals. Since these pilot projects are part of the reform of hospital funding, it is of course necessary that care be provided in the home setting, which allows for the reduction of hospital accommodations or the avoidance of hospitalisations. Obviously, there will always have to be at least one hospital as a partner in the pilot project. There could be more than one. The projects will be submitted after 15 August, because we must of course give the people time to discuss them, to develop them. The selected projects will be announced in September. They can serve as a laboratory for two years, up to three, but with interim evaluations. If sufficient information can be obtained from these experiments to assess how this can be implemented on a large scale, then of course there will be important factors, such as better quality, that is at least our goal for the patient, and more patient satisfaction. The intention is that patients do not always have to go to the hospital to be on an infusion for several hours and that this can happen in the home setting. Some prefer that, others do not. As already described in the plan of approach, it is intended to give good care at the place where it belongs. Care that does not belong in the hospital should be given every opportunity to be delivered in the same qualitative way outside the hospital. These pilot projects give a chance to gain experience with this. When we talk about home care, of course the home nursing sector is an important and valued partner in this. However, it is not intended that home nurses should be used for example to vaccinate people or to rinse and replace gate catheters insofar as these people can go to medical practice for this purpose. Home nurses should also be used to care for people who are treated at home because the movements, waiting times, contact with other sick people, as you know, a hospital is the most contagious place that does them no good. On the other hand, a home nurse who succeeds a patient during a care already taking place will also be able to rinse or replace the port catheter or give a flu vaccination. The home nurse can also charge the amounts mentioned by you, on top of the performances that are already being performed. The various care actors, including hospitals, were invited and informed. They were kindly asked to participate, but of course they were not forced to submit their own organizational proposal for short-term or home hospitalization. However, many actors have been actively involved. We were somewhat the victims of our success, because there were far more answers to the project calls than we expected. I also regret and share your view that for financial reasons some hospitals would not want to participate in the pilot projects, because they partly take care outside the hospital walls. However, if we implement the pilot projects, then the hospitals will no longer have a choice but will have to be turned on. With regard to the short hospital stay, I can say that a lot of hospitals and hospital chains have participated. Reasons for non-participation are not only of a financial nature. I believe that Mrs Dedry can testify that there is a great deal of work involved. Some may be opposed to the work and may have decided to participate as soon as the whole has been worked out and can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u44	Madam Secretary, what you say about pilot projects is hopeful. Firstly, the hospitals must naturally want to join the pilot projects, but we will still see if there are any problems. As regards the difference in pay, I would add that it is not the intention of a home nurse to administer such matters as standard, but as part of a home visit. The cases listed are also valid in hospitals, and this is also a supplement that is reimbursed on top of the day-to-day price. The difference between the home care sector and the hospital sector remains considerable. I believe that there is still work to be done in this area to upgrade home care. Wage for benefits should be made more attractive. In addition to pilot projects, this would also lead to a shift towards more care in the home sector. The differences show that there is still a great deal of margin to increase the level of rewards to the level in the other sector while at the same time achieving savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u45	For the mother-child trajectories we have raised the allowances for care and the midwife. Moreover, in the last ten years, 7% more is invested in home care every year and we continue to invest in it. There is still work to be done, but a much greater effort is being made in the home care sector than in growth. Your party still wants to slow down that growth and lower it than the 1% I have to work with. Please also link back to your own party. I have a growth of just 1% for the whole domain. If a sector is going to run by 3 % to 7 %, then I have to save on the rest. It is a great challenge to bring that balancing exercise to a successful conclusion. I'm willing to do that exercise. I often say this is my dream department, but it's not my dream budget. That's the reality of every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u46	If I may repeat on that, because this is a ball that you have often reflected back to us in this kind of discussion. I will repeat my answer. I believe that there are a lot of savings to be made in health care if we tackle the waste and not as much as we are going to cut budgets linearly, especially in the area of home care. This is an excellent first-line sector that our political party has always supported. If we look at growth in this sector, this is not surprising, as it is being used more. That does not say anything about the individual remuneration of the home nurse. This is an increase in the total number of performances. If these performances had been at hospital level, to say anything, the overall growth rate of the total budget would have been much higher. So I do not think it is right to link the increase in this sector directly to the increase in the overall budget. Even more effort on home care and making the budget evolve by cutting down in other sectors can, in my view, bring even more savings. You will find a partner in our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u47	I'm telling you that only one linear saving has happened, and that's in the hospital nephrology. For the rest, it's about reallocating budgets, waste, too much operation, improper use of other services. That's a move we're gonna keep doing. I agree with you on that. However, I cannot follow you if you say that if the overall increase in the budget is only 1%, it does not account for the nurses. Again, I can only spend a euro once. If there is an increase of 1%, I have to find a balance between all departments. There are departments where the increase is not even half a percent, and there are also needs. Relocations in these departments must also be made within the amount of 23.6 billion. Account must also be taken of the needs in the field, such as the reimbursement of new cases. For the reimbursement of, for example, the medication for hepatitis C, the budget has been exceeded. It is and remains a challenge. That is interesting and I want to continue to do so, but it is not as simple as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me, we will continue a more in-depth discussion at the time of the budget review. We are in the context of the oral questions. The question and answer must be up to 5 minutes. However, I believe that we have gone far beyond the time allotted. The last word is in Mrs. Van Camp. With regard to the following issues, it will be necessary to be more concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u49	That is where we differ.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u50	While there are quality requirements for the care of children in hospitals, only specifically trained paediatric/Neonatology nurses with a special professional title can begin to work. Apparently, this quality requirement expires, once a child goes home with still need for nursing care. Apparently, it doesn't matter whether the nurse is paediatric trained or not. However, according to Article 8 of the charter on the ten rights of the sick child, signed by Belgium in 1988, children must be treated and cared for by medical, nursing and other staff trained specifically for the care of children and possess the knowledge and experience necessary to meet the emotional demands of the child and the family. In home care, that article is currently ignored, while several studies show that good and specifically trained nurses raise the quality of care and have a positive effect on morbidity and mortality. The reason for this question is the fact that our northern neighbours have followed this up and have for some time legally required that seriously ill children who are nursing at home are cared for by a child nurse. Madam Minister, what is the difference in regulations regarding child care in the hospital and home care sectors? Do you intend to align the rules specifically with your reform plans? What do you think of the Dutch example? Do you intend to follow that? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u51	Mrs Van Camp, in the hospital care programmes, it is true that there are only minimum requirements for the department of emergency, oncology and pediatrics in the field of the specialization of nurses. These standards for human resources in hospitals have become a state power after the sixth state reform. In home care, such standards do not apply. However, there are conditions for diabetes education, the possibility of consulting a referent wound care for specific wound care and the required liaison with referent palliative care if a nurse provides a patient with a palliative status. As far as home care is concerned, a proposal can always be made in the agreement committee to link the nomenclature to a degree of specialisation of a nurse. We are indeed pursuing qualitative care through the use of highly trained people, but this must also be organisationally feasible. We can only encourage specialized nurses in the pediatrics to be employed in home care. We cannot force them to take care of the children and also to function as a possible reference person in coaching and training colleagues. There are currently no plans in the reform to follow the Dutch example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u52	The reason for this has not been discussed. But I will repeat the suggestion to the Agreement Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u53	The professional organisations must make proposals, after which they can be discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u54	Madam Minister, this question has been on the agenda for some time. I have already asked questions about this. It's about the large number of foreign dentists coming to settle here. When I asked you the other day, you said that, in the context of the transposition of the European directive, there was a reflection on the language conditions to settle in this country as a healthcare professional and on the possibility of setting up a language test for foreign healthcare professionals. You said at the time that reflection was still going on. Where are we on this now? Here, too, I look at our northern neighbors. Your Dutch colleague, Mr Schippers, has announced that such a language test will be prepared in the Netherlands. Is that what you're planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u55	Mrs Van Camp, my services are continuing to implement the 2013 European directive on health professions, which amends the 2005 directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. The publication of the decision to transpose that directive after being submitted to the Council of State is for one of the coming weeks. The 2005 Directive and the 2013 Directive, which amend it, are intended to facilitate the mobility of health professionals, but also to focus on patient safety. Under these two directives, health professionals enjoying the recognition of professional qualifications in our country or admission to temporary services are required to have the language skills required for the exercise of their profession. In this context, the amended Directive provides for the possibility of imposing language checks on migrants wishing to pursue a health profession in Belgium. Where appropriate, such checks should be limited to the knowledge of an official language of the host Member State and should remain proportionate to the activities to be carried out. At this stage, only the knowledge of one national language, regardless of which and entirely separate from the place of establishment of the migrant, can be the subject of a control. I would, however, like to refer to Article 7 (2) of the 2002 Patient Rights Act. This article also states that the patient is entitled to communication in a clear language which can also be requested in writing. It goes without saying that the condition of clarity can only be met if the language used by the care provider is also powerful and understood. Now that the patient has the free choice of care provider in accordance with the same law, it can be assumed that if a patient feels that he is not being informed in a clear language, he or she can also go to another care provider or decide to stay with the care provider concerned because he or she considers it acceptable and appreciates his or her expertise. The Netherlands, of course, has the same transposition of the directive. Only they have only one official language of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u56	The fact that it is not easy with three national languages is a matter of fact, but to do nothing at all is another matter. To refer to the rights of the patient and to the freedom of choice, and that it is often an acute situation or matters in which the patient himself does not see the importance, I find substandard. It is not only acute situations, but also, for example, the taking of rx images from someone who is pregnant. If the information is not properly understood then it is difficult to say: you were free to choose someone else who understood you better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u57	I'm not saying nothing's gonna happen. I'm saying it's for one of the next weeks, after the Council of State's advice that has already been requested. That doesn't mean I'm not doing anything, Mrs. Van Camp. Really, there will be a transposition of the directive. I am just saying that it is more difficult to do this in a country with three national languages than in a country with one national language.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u58	It's reassuring that something's happening. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u59	Is it your goal to put the arrangements before the holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u61	So we will soon be able to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u62	This question has been going on for some time, Madam Secretary. At the beginning of January, I asked you a question about shutting down the profiles committees. You agreed at that time that the RIZIV was reviewing its processes in the context of an optimisation and efficiency strategy and that these committees had been closed down in that context. Control and the fight against fraud would be intensified in 2016, through a reform of the DGEC and the Anti-Fraud Commission, launched in 2015, and with a cell of Effective care. I thought that the purpose of the target cell was to examine which care is not or less appropriate and to raise awareness of care providers in that area, as you also replied to my question on this matter. So I would like to clarify what exactly is the purpose of the cell Effective care. Is the aim to evaluate the opportunity of treatments and to sensitise care providers to work more EBM or is the aim to combat fraud and control care providers? Or is the objective twofold? You say that control and the fight against fraud would be intensified in 2016 through a reform of the DGEC and the Anti-Fraud Commission. What kind of reform are we talking about? Can you tell me more about that? In what way will it be intensified? Are additional resources and/or staff allocated for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u63	Ms Van Camp, the establishment of cell Effective care within the RIZIV is included in the governance agreement 2016-2018 between the RIZIV and the federal state, in particular in Article 35. Action commitments include drawing up a plan of approach and organisation of the cell, setting up a cooperation platform with all health sectors and drawing up an action plan on effective care. On 9 February, I wrote to the Presidents of the General Council and the Insurance Committee within the RIZIV, asking for a task force to be set up within the General Council to remedy the current overrun of the initial healthcare budget 2016. The Task Force was asked to submit a list of measures at the beginning of June 2016 in order to maintain the initially allocated budget envelope. Both effective care and the fight against fraud are included in the work of the tax force. Although there are clear links between the approach to effective care and fraud, it is two different areas that require different techniques. The promotion of efficiency is done through a scientific approach and the handling of fraud through the installation of control techniques. The Effective Care Cell will focus its activities on promoting the rationally responsible use of healthcare resources, based on research, scientific analysis, quality indicators and mapping of current practices. The aim is and continues to accentuate evidence-based medicine within the various disciplines of healthcare. In the long term, the Task Force will also develop an action plan to combat fraud in health care. This plan will focus on multiple perspectives. These will include a number of preventive measures that will make fraud more difficult or facilitate its fight and the development of a methodology that will evaluate existing and new regulations in the area of fraud sensitivity. There will also be an analysis of the current instruments available in the fight against fraud, in addition to their possible adjustment and the development of new instruments to increase effectiveness. Within the work of the Task Force, a number of priority action points on the fight against fraud have already been identified, such as tackling established abuses in the third-payer scheme and improving the control of outsiders in all disciplines. Instruments to combat fraud must also be developed among other actors. There are also critical success factors, such as the availability of recent invoicing data in health care and a smooth exchange of data and cooperation between RIZIV and health insurance funds. That is also where we are working to ensure the necessary cooperation. As you yourself point out in your question, the capacity available is also very important. A successful strategy is accompanied by the use of the necessary people and analysis capacity, both at sickness funds and at RIZIV. The task force therefore takes the capacity element available to it into account in its work and in the elaboration of the action plan. So the forces are bundled into the task force. Everyone's sitting there at the table. The data will also be gathered there. A systematic cooperation is being developed. It is also the first time that all actors agree that fraud should be prevented where possible and that fraud should be tackled and sanctioned if it does occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u64	That's much clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u65	At the end of March, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CPT) published its report on Belgium following the visit of its representatives from 24 September to 4 October 2013. The purpose of the visit was, inter alia, to assess the policy of detention of detainees in psychiatric annexes of prisons. According to the report, "these facilities for temporary and temporary care are not, in principle, suitable for the prolonged care of psychiatric patients". Among the many shortcomings observed in several of our prisons were the length of stay in psychiatric annexes, often more than two years, or the worrying lack of psychiatrists and multidisciplinary staff. This situation is no longer problematic since, in most cases, these conditions of detention result in, inter alia, a further deterioration of the mental health of these detainees. Minister, are concrete measures being considered to address the shortcomings raised by CPT members? It seems to me that contacts have been made with your colleague the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, concerning the conditions of detention of persons with mental disorders. What did he get out of? Have any decisions been taken or envisaged as a result of these exchanges? If so, can you tell us more about them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u66	Mr Senesael, thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that your questions go beyond my mandate as Minister of Public Health. I have the data and information necessary to answer your questions only to the extent that they do not relate to the conditions of detention of detainees, since they fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Geens. Nevertheless, I can inform you that at the level of Public Health, in collaboration with Justice, the objective is not to detain all inmates in prison anymore. In order to achieve this goal, patient flow should be easier at all levels, also in the regular circuit. To this end, Public Health has put in place a multi-year plan. In this context and with a view to establishing the path of care for medically-legal psychiatric patients, I work closely with the Justice Department. The general objective is to offer all present and future internees, little by little, quality care outside prisons by combining treatment and support with a view to the best possible social reintegration. To this end, a path of care in forensic psychiatry is required, including a care programme for specific target groups (adults at high, medium and low risk; persons with mental disabilities in prisons but also sexual offenders) in a concrete area of action, in principle within the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, by a network of care providers in the mental health care sector, i.e. psychiatric hospitals, outpatient mental health centres, in collaboration with providers of related sectors such as facilities for persons with disabilities. With the institutions of Rekkem, Zelzate, Bierbeek, Sint-Niklaas, Beernem and Sint-Truiden for Flanders, Titeca for Brussels, Tournai and Dave for Wallonia, we already have intensive care with high staff supervision, allowing a flow of patients to the regular care circuit. FPS Public Health care interns and FPS Justice external care channel coordinators have been designated for each court of appeal. They work together to formalize the organization and collaborations within the care channels. In addition, a phase of this plan relates to the implementation of a mobile care team for internees by the Court of Appeal in July 2013. This mobile team participates in the objective of the above-mentioned plan. To this end, it works upstream with the judiciary and within prisons to prepare internees for their transfer. This preparation is comprehensive and covers various aspects of five mental health care reform functions that can integrate care. This team also works downstream by providing assistance and support in hospitals, institutions in alternative service of the home to free beds and places for inmates from prisons. High-security care for internees is being developed through two medical-legal psychiatric centres. For the care of low-security internees, the forensic teams of mental health centres are in place. More action is being given to the development of experts support for CSMs without forensic teams because they too are confronted with internees. With regard to the multi-year plan and the completion of the work of the two medical-legal psychiatric centres, the implementation will further reduce the number of prisoners with mental disorders in prisons. Currently, 800 internees are still in prison. After the opening of a legal psychiatry centre in Antwerp and the implementation of the projects already approved from the multi-annual plan internally, it is 30 places for long-term stay at the Marronniers in Tournai, and 30 places for long-term stay in Bierbeek that are already open. For women, twenty additional seats have already been opened in Zelzate and five in Oak in the Haies. It should be stressed that there are fewer needs for women than for men. On the Flemish side, 250 internees are still in prison and, on the Walloon side, another 450. It is for this reason that justice has rightly focused in its Masterplan III on prisons, on the problem of internment. The government has requested to continue the implementation of a master plan on internment. Public Health has asked Justice to jointly propose an in-house master plan that focuses on tailor-made care and focuses on the transfer of patients from one institution to another. In this way, we can address the problem of internment as a whole and ensure that each inmate is provided with tailor-made care. It is true that for many years it had not been possible in our country for the two competent ministers to work together on this matter. I don't know why, I didn't do it, I wasn't. But today, we have taken action and there are results on the ground. You have to realize that there are 800 patients in prisons, which is not nothing! These places are also expensive, so we try to work in terms of the conversion of places. However, additional resources will always have to be invested. It is true that this group of patients has long been forgotten and, during this term, the extra effort will have to be made. I am glad to have been able to work with the Minister of Justice on the Masterplan III on prisons but also on internees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u67	Madam President, my reply will be brief. Minister, I am pleased that the answer was not within your jurisdiction because it was of good quality. So I will continue to ask questions that are not within your jurisdiction, minister, like that at least, I will have precise and concise answers. In any case, I see that you take this issue to heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, a study by the CM shows a large difference in practices, such as the average length of time, between the different hospitals following hip prosthesis. On average that is 8 days, but one hospital hospitalized patients twice as long, namely 17 days, and another institution even three times as long, namely 24 days. At another institution, 81 percent of the patients subsequently ended up at INZO. Will the length of the stay for all these hospitals be fully reimbursed, including the stays on INZO? There are often different patient profiles within hospitals, but the differences are very striking. Is it checked whether the recordings on INZO and the much longer average lying time have a responsible basis, for example on the basis of the care gravity? These are data that are available. How often is this controlled, in what way and by whom? If the major differences cannot be explained, what are the consequences? Do you generally plan to put a concrete limit on this and achieve a better alignment of the parameters? In what way and when will you tackle such a waste in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u69	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I can reassure you immediately. It has been years since hospitals were financed on the basis of the actual length of stay for each patient or on the basis of the unit where the patient is staying. That was then called the sunbathing price. In essence, each hospital receives identical funding in the BFM, based on the pathology group and the severity of the patient. More specifically, the influence of the length of the pathology on the financing of hospitals is found in the part B2 of the budget of the financial resources. In addition, each hospitalised patient and also the hip prosthesis are submitted to the so-called Diagnosis-Related Groups (DRGs). A number of days are allocated to each stay, depending on the DRG to which the patient belongs. Sometimes the responsible length of lying due to the patient's age increases, the severity of the cause of the hip prosthesis. For example, if someone falls and breaks his hip, there's a traumatic cause. That's a difference from a patient who goes to the hospital with an intact hip for a hip prosthesis. There may also be comorbidities, such as patients with diabetes or coagulation disorders, etc. These responsible days are determined per DRG via a complicated algorithm, but in essence this amounts to the average length of this DRG in all Belgian hospitals. It is only these responsible days that are funded. Consequently, longer periods of time for these institutions do not result in better financing as they are financed according to the average length of time of the DRG. However, what can explain the difference in length of stay is the fact that some hospitals have a rehabilitation department and others do not. If the rehabilitation stay continues in the same hospital as where the operation took place, the hospital may indeed grant a longer period of residence for this pathology. If rehabilitation continues in another institution, the duration of residence for the hip prosthesis in the general hospital is obviously shorter. Whether or not to take on a unit of intensive care after a hip prosthesis is the responsibility of the doctor, who must determine it per patient and depending on the degree of severity and the likelihood of complications due to the comorbidity. The pathology of the patient determines the DRG and therefore the funded length of lying and not the unit in which this patient ends up. The FOD provides for audits of this MZG registration, both on-site and increasingly on the basis of data mining, where they can therefore make links in the data and also extract the outliers from it. They'll get an extra checkup. We are already far from previous funding and we are now also able to carry out more and better controls if it turns out that patients stay longer in some hospitals. I believe that we must continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u70	Minister, on 26 April, we celebrated the 30th and sad anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Five doctors from the Mont-Godinne hospital have recently published a study, under the direction of Prof. Luc Michel, showing that thyroid papillary cancers increased in children under 15 years of age in 1986, when the radioactive cloud passed over Belgium. This study shows that 2,349 patients born before April 1986 were operated in Mont-Godinne for thyroid lesions between April 1986 and April 2015. Patients with papillar thyroid cancer who at the time were under 15 years of age were much more likely (19.5%) than those who had reached that age at the same time. The study also shows that cancer rates do not decrease over time; latency time to develop this radiation-induced cancer can be very long. Unfortunately, this long-term study does not cover the whole of Belgium and Pr. Michel points out that neither the Cancer Registry created in 2008 nor the KCE report on thyroid cancer types takes into account the age of patients, nor does it address any links to the passage of the radioactive cloud. In Belgium, there is no long-term study covering the entire territory. Only after a German study published in 2007, which covered a very long period of time and was interested in children who had lived in the vicinity of a nuclear power plant, Belgium decided in 2002 to carry out a five-year study (2007-2012). It concluded that there was no increase in the number of thyroid cancer cases. Nevertheless, in its 2016 report, the Higher Council of Health recommends that this type of study be repeated over a long period of time, given the period of latency that is important for this type of cancer. Finally, in the nuclear safety sub-committee on 13 April, an expert highlighted the fact that in the event of a nuclear accident with the need to intervene intensively, we would risk facing a destructuring of our health care to the detriment of many hospital patients who sometimes need important care, regardless of exposure to radiation. Madam Minister, is it not urgent, particularly in view of the opinion of the Higher Council of Health, to launch this type of study throughout the territory, for a long time, taking into account the dates of birth, as well as the passage of the radioactive cloud of 1986? Is it not urgent to carry out a study on the state of health of the population around longer-term nuclear sites, as the Germans have done in order to have more reliable results than we currently have?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u71	Mr President, dear colleague, the article by Prof. Michel actually focuses on the evolution of thyroid cancer in children. However, this study should be placed in the right context. The aim of this study is to examine a possible relationship between the prevention of thyroid papillar carcinomas and the age of children in Belgium at the time of the Chernobyl accident, i.e. in April 1986. Patients included come from a university centre for endocrine surgery. The study population consists of 2,349 patients who had been operated on as a result of thyroid injury between April 1986, at the time of the Chernobyl accident, and October 2015. The study primarily describes the 30-year experience of a surgeon. For the period 2012 to April 2015, the operations were carried out by two other surgeons for the same indications and using the same surgical techniques and pathological facilities. The main result of the study is the outcome of two groups. The incidence of thyroid cancer in patients over 15 years of age in April 1986 (Group 1) is compared with that of patients under 15 years of age at the time of Chernobyl. In other words, the study describes the evolution of thyroid injury operations and the number of cancers that were subsequently observed in patients operated over a 30-year period in a specific hospital. It is not possible to establish a link with Chernobyl on the basis of these results. Apart from the period before and after April 1986, the study does not include any data on Chernobyl-related precipitation. No other co-variant elements were analyzed. The results of the 15+ age group show that there were no thyroid cancer operations prior to April 1986. Starting in 1986, the hospital had more thyroid injury operations. Thyroid cancer has been observed in some cases. It is important to take into account any distortion of results due to selection. During the period from April 1986 to October 2015, 36 cases of thyroid cancer were reported in patients under 15 years of age in the hospital in question, four of which were in 1999 and five between 2000 and 2002. Of these 36 cases, the surgical indication was nodular goitre in 32 cases, Graves' disease in two cases, and the large multinodular goitre with Hashimoto thyroiditis also in two cases. The results also indicate that the number of thyroid cancers has increased substantially in patients operated under the age of 15 years since the introduction of some markers for cancer diagnosis. In response to your second question, I am able to confirm that an epidemiological study is under way in Belgium, in order to verify whether living near a Belgian nuclear site has an impact on health. This study is based on data from the Cancer Registry. In 2012, the results were presented to the Belgian Parliament. They were based on cancer data 2000-2008 for Flanders and 2004-2008 for Brussels and Wallonia, the latter starting later. Also in 2012, it was decided to update these results once cancer data were available for a longer period of time in Belgium. The study you mention had merits, of course, but we cannot extrapolate all the results recorded - it is a centre - for the whole of Belgium. Cancer registries report universal results. They are therefore more representative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u72	He himself claims that he can only rely on people who live in his area. There is no similar survey in the rest of the territory which links to age (under 15 years or over 15 years in 1986): the problem is that we do not have the data for the whole territory. Asking this question on the whole territory, as he asks, seems interesting to me by pointing out whether or not the age of 15 in 1986 has been reached for people who have developed thyroid cancer and to continue to cross these data with those which should be established on a permanent basis. You argue that the study of people living around nuclear sites should be continued on the basis of the data included in the Cancer Registry. We know that it took time for this register to be established. Does this mean that today in the Cancer Registry, data are available for all people who have cancer, with their age, the area of residence and the type of cancer? Therefore, a search could be conducted by cross-checking the different data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u73	It is an epidemiological study that is under way on the basis of the data contained in the Cancer Registry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u74	And this study is permanent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u76	There may be times when we can look at what this ongoing study reveals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u77	That's right. As soon as significant results appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u78	Madam President, Minister, people with oligodency have a hereditary condition which means they have no or less teeth. That condition is unrelated to dental care. The only lasting solution is tooth implants. I've read that apparently they're not being paid in full. Why aren't they fully reimbursed? Are there any plans to revisit this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u79	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, there are, in the first instance, exceptions to the general rules for the reimbursement of orthodontics and removable prostheses, which allow them to benefit from additional intervention. These are specific arrangements created to reduce the cost of dental care in these patients. Dental implants are only reimbursed to a very limited extent by compulsory insurance. For those who lack several final teeth, simply because they have not been formed, limited intervention is possible following the agreement of the College of Medical Directors. In case of oligodency there is a maximum refund of €2 251.49 for six implants. This is a limited refund that is not cost-effective when it comes to more than six missing teeth. Measures to improve reimbursement will have to be agreed with the representative professional organisations. Provision for full or more comprehensive compensation for implants in the event of oligodency can only be made by making additional financial resources available or by making compensatory savings. That's one of those exercises we're doing. The reimbursement for oligodency is recent: there is only two or three years left to repay it. Six teeth have been chosen because this allows the possibility to provide implants and still to attach teeth to them so that people have a full mouth with teeth. I'm saying this because it might give the impression that we only implant six teeth and let the holes remain. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u80	I understand, therefore, that there is an opportunity to discuss whether this reimbursement can be extended if other portfolios can be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u81	Question No 10926 by Mrs Muylle is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u82	Madam Secretary, my question is brief. She deals with biological drugs, which are often very expensive. As I understand it, this country is a little behind on making biosimilars cheaper. Organic medicines contain biologically active substances and are far more effective than conventional drugs based on chemical components for some diseases such as skin diseases, cancers and lung diseases. Because biological resources are more difficult to produce, they are often more expensive. The so-called generics of the biomedicines, the biosimilary medicines, could provide a solution. I understand that specialists express their concern about the fact that the price of the original medicines goes down drastically once the patent has expired. As a result, certain biosimilars would not have a chance, and competition would not play. Is it true, Madam Secretary, that there is a problem in the biosimilar producers sector? If so, what do you think are the causes of this? Do you believe that this has a negative impact on pricing and is therefore detrimental to the budget and patients? Or does it have a positive effect? I don't know, actually. Have you discussed this with Febelgen? If so, what were the results? If not, are you planning such consultations? Is this part of the pharmaceutical pact? Are you planning measures? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u83	That pharmaceutical pact is called the Future Pact. It was clearly stated that there would be a pact with the pharmaceutical industry on biosimilars. That's what happened. We concluded a covenant in January of this year, a kind of gentlemen's agreement with a view to stimulating these biomedicines. That covenant, which was made in December 2015, but was baptized in January 2016, was signed by the relevant scientific doctors' associations, the representatives of the hospital pharmacists and the representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, both the generic industry, i.e. Febelgen, and pharma.be. The covenant means that the doctor will at least consider a biosimilar for 20% of the new patients, the so-called bionaïve patients. It's not possible for everyone either. It is true that Belgium is lagging behind in history, which is due, on the one hand, to the reluctance of doctors, but, on the other hand, also inspired by the discounts given by the pharmaceutical industry to hospitals. This was already mentioned in the 2013 KCE report. An initial evaluation of the covenant and its implications in the field is foreseen in July 2016. We now hear that on the ground more and more hospitals are going to include these biosimilars in their formularium. That's a first step. They must also issue a tender for the provision of biosimilars. Public procurement legislation is in force. This should also mean that the hospital can buy the cheapest alternative. So there really is something moving on the premises. Those negotiated gentlemen's agreement, if I may put it that way, has been a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic427x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. The issue is getting a lot clearer to me.
