ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the US and European negotiators of the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment (TTIP) met in Brussels on 22 February for a week of work aimed in particular at reducing their differences on the issue of arbitration of investment-related disputes. This is the twelfth round of negotiations, the terms of which are now available. The more negotiations progress, the more critical the issue of transparency becomes and the more numerous the opponents of these treaties become. Minister, can you tell us how Belgium was represented and the items on the agenda of the discussions? With regard to transparency, Belgium has opted for a limited consultation of the documents relating to the Treaty, by proposing limited time frames and reduced means of consultation (no access to the Internet, prohibited photos, prohibition of coming with a technician or translator, thus obliging Members to consult the texts in English). Do you think that it is possible to review the conditions of access to documents so that we can do our work more efficiently? For example, by expanding the consultation schedules or bringing the documents here so that we can consult them when we have a time available in Parliament. As far as health care is concerned, the TTIP could open the door for commercial companies to the "service of general interest" which, in Belgium, is provided in particular by mutual societies and non-marketers. What is Belgium's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u2	Dear colleague, I will begin by answering the part of the question on health care. As required by Belgium and relayed by the Commission, a possible future agreement on the TTIP will have to maintain the exclusive competence of the European and Belgian public authorities to regulate and finance services considered to be of general interest. This includes health care. The European Union also defends the protection of public services at all levels of power in all trade agreements by providing for a large horizontal reserve. If a decision to liberalise, deregulate or privatize these services is envisaged, it will only fall within the relevant level of authority. Specifically, in TTIP, I confirm that the European Union has not accepted any concessions for the public health sector. TTIP will not be able to require Member States to outsource or open their public health-care services to private providers. This choice will continue to raise the relevant levels of power in each Member State, as will safety requirements and quality standards. Nationally, Belgium also excludes health services financed by the private sector, such as ambulance services and health-care services other than hospital services. An undertaking from a third country will not be authorised to provide its services in Belgium. In response to your questions on the transparency of the negotiations, the European Union and Belgium did not wait for this twelfth round of negotiations to move towards greater transparency: publication of the mandate, publication of European offers, contacts with parliaments and civil society. I would like to thank Commissioner Cecilia Malmström once again for agreeing to come to all the parliaments that requested it, not only at the federal level but also in the federated entities. The opening of reading rooms is also part of these measures. Instead of repeating myself, I refer you to an answer I gave to an oral question from Mr. Van Hees on this subject on 24 February. With regard to the specific questions on the reading room, I would like to inform you that dictionaries are now available on request. The conditions of access you mention – no access to the Internet, no photos, no accompanying person – seem logical given the confidential nature of the documents and the individual nature of the right of consultation of parliamentarians. These conditions of access negotiated by the Commission and the United States are applicable in the 28 Member States and therefore not flexible. If you were aware of different situations in other Member States, I would be happy to hear about them and then we would see with the Commission how the system could be adapted. As far as opening hours are concerned, I assure you, the reading room has so far refused no one because of a lack of room, and if there are requests for us to consult at other times, we will adapt without too much difficulty to allow it, if there are times that are better suited than those that have been reserved so far. There is no congestion in terms of visits. If, with the same number of visits, we have to set up other opening hours, we are quite prepared to organise the situation flexibly. Finally, the twelfth round of negotiations held in Brussels focused on the three pillars around which the negotiations are organised. The Commission issued a public report, as in the eleventh round of negotiations. From this report and the oral debriefings that preceded it, we will mainly note, for market access, the disappointment of the confirmation of an unambitious offer by the United States in terms of opening up its public market and limited progress in services. This contrasts in particular with the ambitious results that the European Union and Canada have negotiated in the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA). In terms of cross-cutting rules, the United States has submitted its first offer in the area of sustainable development – environment but above all social rights and working conditions. It's a first step. However, for Belgium, the European Union and the United States must be able to aim higher. We ask that we go further in these matters. The most significant progress has been made with regard to regulatory cooperation, particularly in the field of generic medicines, where increased cooperation between European and US regulatory authorities could speed up their entry into these two markets. As with the previous eleven rounds of negotiations, it was the European Commission that negotiated with the United States on behalf of the European Union. As in the previous 11 times, it checked its mandate with the 28 Member States prior to the negotiation and reported back afterwards. At Belgian level, this mandate of the Commission is discussed in a weekly coordination which includes representatives of the Regions and the Communities. The thirteenth round of negotiations will take place in New York in April. So we're still very far from having any agreement. As I point out every time, there is no question of talking about a treaty but about ongoing negotiations, and we will still have to make a judgment on the outcome of the negotiations as long as they lead to a proposal for a treaty between the European Union and the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u3	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Don't see any controversy in my speech on access to documents. I just noticed myself that it was complicated with our calendars that are always very fluctuating. We make an appointment to go to the reading room and then suddenly we have committees or plenarys. The fact that we have to go to the FPS is not making our work easier at all. I would have hoped that we could have access to these documents here in the building, which would allow us to be more flexible about when we can go to them. I understand that there is already a possibility of going to other times than those that are currently being proposed to us. It's already a good thing, but it's true that it's objectively difficult to read these documents properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u4	Dear colleague, all negotiating documents and Commission proposals on the European side are available on the Commission's website. In this case, we are talking about documents that the US authorities agree to allow us to be consulted. This is the first time we have obtained this right. As far as we are concerned, calling for more facilities and violating the agreements between the European Commission and the United States would simply deprive us of access to documents. There is therefore no question here of European documents which are already available and which the Commissioner has agreed to disseminate widely. As far as American documents are concerned, these are the rules. However, if preferences for a particular consultation period come from members of the committee, we can organise ourselves. It would, however, be preferable to organise visiting groups, since the services must also be able to organize themselves. On the other hand, don't warn too late about your arrival.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u5	Thank you, Minister. We'll take note of your offer. The interested colleagues have heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u6	Colleagues Crusnière, Lijnen, Capoen and Pivin have asked to wait for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u7	Mr President, Minister, since Belgium is a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council, and in view of a number of recent infringements of these rights by Member States of the European Union, it is important to apply the principles of humanity and solidarity which form the basis of its values. It is in this sense that we can subscribe to your wish to set up, and I quote you, "a regular mechanism ensuring that the situation of respect for the rule of law and human rights" in each State of the European Union is reviewed. This proposal is interesting, but at least surprising given the position of this majority on Poland, for example, and the rejection of our motion for a resolution in this area. You were absent at that time, but then we felt a great disappointment. As you mentioned, this would indeed put pressure on countries that derogate from the most fundamental principles before the situation degenerates, as in the case of Poland and Hungary. Preventive dialogue and cooperation should also be given priority. Minister, can you give us more information about the mechanism you would like to install? Why, therefore, has our country not been more demanding in the debate on Poland? What would be the difference with the introduction of the formal procedure for monitoring compliance with the rule of law, as has been done in the case of Poland?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u8	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, Belgium supported the Commission when it decided to use a mechanism to safeguard the rule of law vis-à-vis Poland. It is simply necessary to let this procedure follow its course. It is not for a Member State to replace the Commission in this process. We can imagine a lot of debates in national parliaments about the situation in Poland, but there is a mechanism that is supported by Belgium and the European Commission has taken the initiative. My proposal is to go further and put in place within the Council of Ministers of the European Union a procedure for the periodic review of all Member States. This review could take place within the General Affairs Council. From a practical point of view, all Member States should be assessed on a regular basis. The assessment would be based on a number of bases, such as a report by the State concerned, information gathered by the European Commission, information from other sources, such as the Council of Europe, the European Agency for Fundamental Rights or civil society. It is possible to add the United Nations. The Human Rights Council regularly reviews the situation of all States in the context of a universal periodic review. I had the opportunity to defend the Belgian position in Geneva in January. This mechanism would distinguish itself from the mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law launched by the European Commission in respect of Poland, but would of course not call it into question. This implies the emergence of a clear threat to the rule of law. The mechanism I propose is a regular and systematic review, even before problems have been detected. We have already received support to set up this mechanism, particularly from the founding countries. We held a first meeting in Rome and I had the opportunity to raise this point. I have just discussed it again at the informal meeting of the General Affairs Council which has just taken place in Amsterdam earlier this week. A number of supports have been expressed. An evaluation of the existing mechanisms under the Slovak Presidency in the second half of the year will take place. I hope that in the meantime, although we are working on it now, we will be able to move towards the establishment of this mechanism. I recall what I have already said in plenary session: it seems to me that it is at least as important to be concerned about respect for fundamental rights and European values as it is to devote its time to verifying compliance with the Maastricht criteria in economic and budgetary terms. That is the approach that we are taking, which does not prevent us from supporting the process which the Commission is also implementing with regard to Poland.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u9	Minister, we will await the conclusions of the commission that has been set up. I am aware that it is difficult to maintain coherence in a Europe that tends to be fragmented in some respects. I am convinced that Kaczynski and Orban are not a fatality and that we can really fight against these violations of the fundamental values for a Europe of integration. I support your evaluation mechanism, which is necessary, as long as this evaluation can be followed up. Who doesn't try to get nothing! So, good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u10	Minister, this is a topical issue to which you have also responded. This week Israel destroyed a playground in the West Bank which was financed by Belgian money. It was supposed to be the fourth Belgian project destroyed by Israel since February. You have once again sent a press release expressing your concern and also referring to the structured European dialogue to ask for compensation from Israel and so on. I had tabled my question in response to a previous destruction. I asked what you will do to reinforce that concern. That question remains, especially because the context has changed. Since 17 March, structured dialogue between the European Union and Israel has ended. The information provided by the European Commission clearly shows that, if the structured dialogue ends without a solution in which Europe as a whole can ask for compensation or take a position on Israel, it is permissible for individual Member States to ask for compensation in respect of Israel. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would formally ask you to do the same and make use of this opening. We all know the problem. It's about zone C, where Israel still formally has to deliver the building permit. Only that hardly happens in practice. Apparently, only 1.5% of applications are approved. That is why countries such as Belgium set up projects there with development money. I don't think we should let this pass. I think international law should apply here. That is why Belgium is still setting up development projects in zone C: because we are relying on international law. The European context is what it is. There is the possibility to shoot into action bilaterally. My question is, certainly in the light of yesterday's events, will you do so? I have a specific question about Zone C. I would like to know if the Belgian government will contact the Israeli government before launching development projects in zone C. If that is the case, I would have liked to have been given details of the procedure followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u11	Minister, I had tabled my question following the destruction of the development project in Khirbet Tana on 2 March, also in zone C on the West Bank. That project, funded by Belgium, was destroyed by the Israeli government. Moreover, that destruction took place at the time of a Belgian parliamentary mission to visit the region. Other development projects of European partners and of the European Commission were also affected or could be affected by similar actions. As Mr De Vriendt said just now, reality has caught up with us and we have received reports about a playground in Nablus that was destroyed two days ago. Through a press release, you, along with Minister De Croo, condemned that destruction in Khirbet Tana. In the past, the European Union has also condemned the destruction of humanitarian projects by Israel. I think it is very good that this is happening systematically. You've responded to that every time. However, I have a number of questions for you. Did you talk to the Israeli authorities about this? What message did you convey to them exactly? On what grounds did Israel decide to destroy that project? After the destruction of the electricity project in September 2014, which we also discussed, the Belgian Government also indicated that it would demand a refund from the Israeli government. What is the state of this question to Israel, both at Belgian and EU level? Will Belgium again take démarches within the European Union to raise this matter in greater detail? You speak of it, but how will you deal with it? Finally, the destruction of zone C goes against international humanitarian law, since it concerns humanitarian projects aimed at improving the living conditions of the Palestinians in zone C. Do you agree to that vision? Will you continue to make démarches both bilaterally and within the European Union aimed at improving the living conditions of the Palestinians in zone C and also aimed at encouraging Israel to act as an occupying force to improve those living conditions? In other words, will we continue to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the last wave of destruction in early March 2016, we did not just issue a press release. My fellow Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Alexander De Croo, also met the Israeli Ambassador to discuss the subject. It expressed its concern at the alarming increase in the number of destruction and seizure of Palestinian infrastructure in zone C of the West Bank since early 2016. For more details on this interview, please refer to my fellow Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation. We also reacted very strongly yesterday to the destruction of a playground in Nablus. That playground was financed by the Belgian Development Cooperation. We will ask the Israeli Government, together with my colleague for development cooperation, to explain this through the Israeli ambassador in Brussels. Through the Belgian embassy in Tel Aviv we also ask the Israeli government for more details. Our position on humanitarian aid in zone C remains unchanged. These humanitarian interventions were carried out in accordance with international humanitarian law. The destruction in zone C is certainly a violation of international law, and they are unacceptable. We therefore call on the Israeli authorities to put an end to the destruction and to prevent further destruction or seizure. International humanitarian law must be respected. Local international humanitarian organisations must have unhindered access to vulnerable populations. As far as compensation is concerned, I have already made it clear that Belgium will raise the question of compensation to be paid by Israel at European level in such cases. A common European approach to this problem is more efficient and preferable as certain projects from other EU Member States and ECO were also destroyed. As you know, this issue is being discussed at European level. The debates on this were constructive. Work will continue in the coming weeks. We will continue to strive for a common compensation mechanism. We will also make an assessment of the situation in the coming weeks to see whether the consultations between the EU and the Israeli authorities can lead to tangible results. I can also confirm that we have had regular contacts with the Israeli authorities at various levels in Brussels, Jerusalem and Tel Aviv to avoid destruction in the future. The destruction does not mean that we will cease our assistance in Zone C. I can confirm that Belgium will continue to invest in humanitarian assistance in zone C. I have said that there are contacts with the Israeli authorities, but that is not with a view to an agreement on possible intervention in zone C. We are engaged in a dialogue with the Israeli authorities, but international law must be respected. In short, there will be direct contact with the Israeli Ambassador in Brussels, together with the Minister for Development Cooperation. We will continue to demand compensation at European level. At the end of this procedure it may be possible to take further bilateral initiatives, but I would first and foremost like to call for a European initiative in this regard. We will continue with a number of possible actions in Zone C. We are in contact with the Israeli government, but only to prevent destruction, not to get an agreement from the Israeli government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u13	Of course, Minister, it is not new that you have direct contact with the Israeli authorities. In your press release of 4 March following a previous destruction, you already mention this. A certain passage in your reply has clearly not been updated when you say that there have been contacts to stop the destruction. Yesterday it appeared that these contacts did little or nothing, because a new destruction has happened. You are talking about tangible results of the European dialogue. There aren't any. You say that you want to wait for the end of the European procedure and then you will see what steps you want to take. That European procedure provided for a period of six months, which started on 17 September and ended on 17 March. There's no result. To a parliamentary question dated 18 February 2015, the European Commission replied as follows: "In case the EU engagement with Israel does not lead to a tangible freeze of demolations and concessions, the EU and individual Member States will be able to ask for compensations.' Individual Member States will then be allowed to request compensation. If you don't do that now, that's your political choice. Europe gives you the opportunity to do so. Why don't you use that? The European procedure has led nowhere. I can only say that you are refusing to act sufficiently hard with regard to Israel. Minister, at some point we must dare to call a cat a cat. Expressing concern in direct contacts is very good. You are always quick to send out a press release to protest, of which you are aware. I can imagine that not all fellow Members in the European Union do that. You do, but I think there is still a step short of breaking out of the European carcan if it turns out that we cannot make progress, namely effectively putting demand for compensation on the table bilaterally. Europe allows it and creates the opening for you to do so. The European procedure has come to an end since 17 March. It can be extended. We can extend it two, three or five times, but if the result is always zero, Israel will continue to carry out those destructions. I think we can conclude that they have not been impressed so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u14	Minister, I do understand your answer and approach somewhat differently from my colleague, Mr De Vriendt. I am very pleased to hear that you are determined to continue and systematically intervene on this issue. I am also pleased to hear that Belgium will continue to invest in those humanitarian projects in zone C. That's very important to the people there. I have also heard that the priority is a European approach, which I believe is the right approach. But I have also seen you open a door to any bilateral initiatives. We will now have to look further at what that opening can mean. In the past, you have also talked about our country's ability to claim compensation. Let me tell you a short anecdote. Last year we were in Ramallah and we had talks with local farmers and people who run all kinds of organizations, for example a small organisation that lists how many olive trees were destroyed. One of the men I spoke to at the time knew your words. He was deeply moved and grateful for the fact that people elsewhere in the world were also concerned about the injustice that was done to them. I agree with Mr De Vriendt on the urgency. It cannot just be those words; next steps must be taken. The time has come to explore the possibility of bilateral initiatives that you have just created. You will also be visiting Israel and Palestine shortly. Why not look at some of these projects as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u15	Mr President, Minister, on 26 January the Iranian President, Hassan Rouhani, visited the Italian capital Rome. A lot of people are aware of that visit. Rome is one of the most beautiful cities in the world, not in spite of its beautiful architecture and images. Once again, however, it turned out that tastes differ. At the request of the Iranian president's entourage, several nude statues were covered and made invisible in Rome in the run-up to his visit. Mr. Secretary, there's no argument about flavors. Nor can there be any dispute over the fact that a founding member of the former EEC has such crawling behavior in such requests from an Iranian leader and his entourage. In the meantime, we have heard that the Iranian President will also come to Belgium and visit the European institutions. My questions are as follows. What explanation has your Italian colleague given to justify such measures? Has your Italian counterpart within the European Union been called upon to cover these images? What message was brought to him on behalf of the European Union? What is the Belgian message you have sent to your Italian counterpart in this matter? What position have you expressed on behalf of Belgium at European level in response to these events? The Iranian President is indeed coming to Belgium. Do you confirm that Belgian government officials will not respond to requests to cover images or works of art, or not shake women's hands? What will be our position on the matter? I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, the Italian Foreign Minister has not given an official statement to justify the measures taken in Rome. It concerns a unilateral decision by Italy, which was not discussed bilaterally or within the European Union. I personally have recently invited my Iranian colleague for Foreign Affairs, Minister Zarif, to the Egmont Palace. I can assure you that no statue was covered before his visit. He even gave the press a very positive comment on some antique statues. So I think it's possible to do that. The date for the Iranian President's visit to Belgium has not yet been confirmed. At present, both parties are still looking for a suitable date for the visit to take place. I shall then have the same reaction as my colleague: no specific measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u17	I hope, therefore, that you will not comment on any questions that might arise in this area. You haven't done that for a while, probably there haven't been any questions. I don't know if the teams are different for an Iranian president's visit. I'm glad you're persistent after all. After all, it is very sensitive. You have also recently heard from the media that Air France's stewardesses refused to wear a headscarf to land in Tehran. That is what makes you feel that the pressure on women to behave differently or to cover themselves up is no longer appreciated at this time. The fact that many women have to comply with certain practices under pressure, including in Iran, is increasingly being questioned. I am glad that you have no intention of answering such questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Hellings and Mr Crusnière to come here so that the questions put together can be dealt with under item 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u19	Mr President, Minister, after my previous statement on the situation of non-believers in the world, I would like to return to you on this subject in relation to the situation in Russia. Indeed, repressive methods against atheists continue to prevail in this country. This is the case of an Internet user who, after defending atheistic positions on a social network, is accused of having offended the feelings of believers, finds himself in the face of justice and is in real danger of up to a year's imprisonment. This penalty comes from article 148 of the Russian Penal Code, which was added following the Pussy Riot case, a group of feminist activists who sang a "punk prayer" in the main cathedral in Moscow in 2012. The Russian President has signed a law on the priority of the verdicts of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation in relation to the verdicts of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) on Russian territory. Minister, what information comes back to you from the place of non-believers, both at the societal, social, political and legal level in Russia? How do you see the freedom of expression of non-believers in this country evolving? Do you integrate the issue of respect for freedom of expression into your bilateral diplomatic relations with Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u20	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, this concern is always integrated into all the bilateral contacts that can be organised with the authorities of the Russian Federation. This is the case not only in our bilateral contacts, but also throughout the European Union. Since the end of the Soviet Empire, we can see that the atheist doctrine has disappeared in favour of the Orthodox Church, which contributes, by its weight, to the definition of the Russian societal framework. Freedom of non-belief is not banished in Russia, despite a strong link, sometimes denounced, between the Russian power and the Orthodox Church, as long as it is not part of the public act. In this context, we must remain attentive to the implementation of Russian legislation - as you have reminded us - as the federal law of 29 June 2013 or article 148, first part of the criminal code, which could hinder freedom of non-belief. With regard to freedom of religion or belief, Belgium subscribes to the European Union guidelines on freedom of religion or belief. Freedom of opinion and expression are essential for the realization of many other rights, including freedom of religion or belief. The situation in the Russian Federation is not without questions, as the examples set out in your question attest. My administration and I will not fail to reiterate our commitment to respect for fundamental rights in our bilateral contacts with Russia. We continue to follow the remarks also made by the European Union during the contacts between the European Union and the Russian Federation on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u21	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is important to stress that secularism and freedom of expression are still under threat in Russia. A significant number of court proceedings have recently been recorded against people who have posted online content on the subject. And as far as the person who was mentioned was concerned, she was interned in a psychiatric hospital for offending the Orthodox religion. However, it has been recognized as sound in mind. I think we need to keep an eye on this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u22	Mr President, the TTIP negotiations between the EU and the United States are far from over, but an important step has been taken on Monday, 29 February. Indeed, the Commission announced the end of CETA's legal grooming and the replacement of ISDS by a new model, the ICS. Apart from this technical change – which is a cosmetic one but does not change anything at all – none of the concerns we had expressed or the tags we had asked for have been respected by this final text. Since the Council of European Trade Ministers could vote on this text as early as May, it is urgent to know the Belgian position in this context. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the federal government's position on CETA in its final version? How do you view the potential impacts of such a treaty vis-à-vis the ICS on social or environmental standards and its cultural, agri-food or health care impact? What about the right of States to legislate in this context? When will Belgium's official position be determined? In this context, I will add an element of topicality, since there has been a debate at the level of the Walloon Parliament (...) [[Without microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u23	Ms. Grovonius, as the House was informed, the Commission had begun to use the legal grooming phase to discuss with Canada technical developments on investment protection and arbitration mechanisms. These technical adjustments should bring this mechanism closer to the proposal for a judicial system of investments which the Commission has developed on the basis of its consultations with the European Parliament, the Member States and civil society. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Commissioner Malmström, who has far exceeded this objective. Not only has the Commission succeeded in convincing Canada to incorporate all the elements of its proposal, including ensuring respect for the right to regulate states and strengthening the impartiality of judges, but it has also succeeded in rallying Canada, a member of the G20 and the G7 as well as the OECD, to make a public commitment to the creation of a permanent international investment jurisdiction. This development crowns a draft agreement that responds very positively to the mandate given by the 28 Member States, including Belgium. I speak for our offensive interests, such as opening up Canadian public procurement to the provincial level, increasing intellectual property rights protection, which is sensitive to our pharmaceutical industry, opening up marine services, and others. I am also speaking for our defensive interests: exclusion from the audiovisual sector, respect for our phytosanitary standards, guarantees of our right to legislate and regulate, protection of sensitive public services such as health care and a strong environmental aspect. To such an extent that some see CETA as a model treaty and an effective lever for the ongoing negotiations between the European Union and other developed economies. However, the formal adoption procedure for CETA has not yet started. Canadians and Europeans still need to complete the revision and translation of the text into French and the 21 other treaty languages of the European Union. The public announcement by the Commission and Canada is that CETA can be signed in 2016 to take effect in 2017. Before that, the Council will have before it draft decisions for approval and signature of the agreement to be submitted by the Commission. No date has yet been set, but it is very unlikely that this will take place before the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council on 13 May, as scheduled by the Dutch Presidency at the end of 2015. According to the information available to us, the draft decisions should not come to the Council table before June; the competent levels of power have already been informed that formal coordination will determine the Belgian position on the texts submitted to the Council, as is also provided for in the Cooperation Agreement. There are regular consultations organized by the DGE within my department on the subject. We will therefore carefully follow what will be passed on at these meetings by all governments, including the Walloon government. I have not had the opportunity to follow the recent debates in detail. I just heard you had to buy Walloon but didn't hear many other things. But, I assure you, I'm going to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u24	I thank the Minister for the Brussels geography course he has just given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u25	Mr Minister, last autumn, the Member States of the European Union reached a political agreement to take over the location of the migrants welcomed to European territory. Some countries had opposed the agreement at that time. On 24 February, after taking action in favour of his country before the European justice system, the Hungarian Prime Minister announced the holding of a referendum on this European distribution plan. On 18 March, a new European summit was held with the Turkish President on the issue of refugee candidate flows. There is growing tension in this area and this situation is gradually reaching the very functioning of the European institutions and the idea of a common territory which had prevailed during the European integration process. I would therefore like you to inform us about Belgium's assessment of the plan adopted in autumn 2015 concerning the relocation of migrants. What about the implementation of the agreement with Turkey on the ground? What is Belgium's position on Hungary's referendum initiative? This initiative – we must recognize it – is democratic. Finally, will Belgian initiatives on this subject be taken at the address of Hungary or the European Union in order to be present in this intra-European debate? I am thinking in particular of the answers to be given concerning the controls on the external borders of the European Union by the European services in solidarity between the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u26	Mr Pivin, a lasting response to the migration crisis requires a common approach by the Union and its Member States that combines responsibility and solidarity. This is repeated in all the European meetings in which Belgium participates. Implementation of relocation decisions is one of the key elements of this approach. As of 11 April 2016, only 1,145 persons in need of international protection had been relocated. This is little in view of the 160,000 people who were to be relocated by September 2017. This disappointing result is partly due to the fact that the hotspots in which people are to be registered took time before being operational. In addition, during the first weeks of March, the pace of relocation accelerated with the improved operation of the hotspots. However, three Member States – Croatia, Hungary and Slovakia – have not yet offered relocation. The European Council of 18 and 19 March called on Member States to speed up the process. Concerning Hungary's organisation of a referendum on relocation, probably in the second half of 2016, it must be noted that this is a sovereign decision, which must be respected. However, whatever the outcome of the referendum, the decision on relocation is binding and binding on all Member States, until the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidates it. There is therefore no reason to allow exceptions in this area. For Belgium, all the decisions already taken by the European Council should be implemented. Hotspots should be monitored and relocation decisions carried out. There is also a need to strengthen external border controls, including the rapid establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard Corps. As far as the agreement with Turkey is concerned, I had the opportunity to discuss it with the Turkish Minister responsible for relations with the European Union, who was with us in Amsterdam at the informal General Affairs Council, in any case for the first part. All the elements of the agreement will have to be respected. Implementation is very gradual if we look at the current situation. Of course, we hope that all the elements of the agreement will be implemented. It is not possible to move forward on certain aspects without covering the whole agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u27	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, this agreement, which is said to be "one for one", must be assured. Its legality and enforcement must be guaranteed. The credibility of the whole mechanism, and above all the result that we hope to achieve in practice on the ground, is at stake, because it is indeed a matter of hearing you say that we have a thousand relocations on an estimate of 60,000 for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u28	Minister, these questions date from the beginning of March, but they are still topical. I do not think that much has changed in the Belgian position. My first question is: what progress has been made within the government on the American demand for the extension of the mandate of the Belgian F-16 Tunisians from Iraq to Syria? What elements do you consider in this regard? In the past, you have already expressed a positive view of such military action. Also shortly after the attacks in Brussels, there were statements by Belgian government members to this effect. What is the legal basis for you? How do you respond to the determination of specialists in international law that UN Resolution 2249 is not sufficient because it does not refer to Chapter VII of the UN Charter? Moreover, the right to self-defense presupposes an attack from state to state under international law. It is not because a different practice or political interpretation has grown that this would make legal sense. How do you respond to the view that fragile political progress with actors such as Russia and even the Assad regime could be called into question by extending military intervention by NATO countries? What is the military situation on the ground in Syria? Which countries are currently militaryly active in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u29	Mr Minister, on 2 March you said: "I believe that we must indeed extend our action in Iraq towards Syria". This statement comes at a time when Russia has now decided to openly support the Bashar al-Assad regime by carrying out mass and indiscriminate bombings of areas controlled by certain Islamist groups, but also what remains of the democratic Syrian opposition, mostly bypassing the areas governed by Daesh. In addition, despite the nine months of Operation Desert Falcon, where the six Belgian F-16s carried out 163 attacks on 796 flights over Iraq, the military power but above all Daesh's political attractiveness has continued to increase. The most obvious evidence of this failure is the recent attacks on our soil. The enemy of our military is capable of recruiting young people from our own neighbourhoods to carry out its attacks. It is an important strategic, geopolitical element. My questions are more geopolitical, not military. Minister, how will possible Belgian air strikes against Daesh's positions in Syria deter Sunni people in Syria from supporting or even joining the terrorist organisation. One of the main lessons of the many air campaigns in Iraq is that bombing Sunni areas, where Daesh anchors itself, has the effect of radicalising these affected Sunni populations, while the political objective is, rightly, exactly the opposite? How will Belgian air strikes allow the Sunni majority of Syria to find a place in the organisation of Syrian society? How will Belgian airstrikes in the Sunni area of Syria allow Syria's political transition to a model of political representation that will eventually include all its ethnic and religious communities? How will Belgian air strikes in the Sunni area of Syria tarnish the unprecedented flood of refugees on the way to Europe, knowing that most of these refugees are fleeing first and foremost the barbaric military actions and the massive and repeated violations of human rights by the Bashar al-Assad regime now supported by Russia? How will the objective military alliance between NATO members and Russia and the bloodthirsty regime of Bashar al-Assad tarnish the torrent of rallying the Sunni people of the Middle East in Daesh and, consequently, some young fanatics and indoctrinates from Europe, and thus also from Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u30	Mr Minister, the Russian President has again taken international forums by surprise by announcing the withdrawal of a major part of his troops from Syria. The mission is accomplished globally, according to President Putin, who believes that he has changed the course of the fight against terrorism. But we can ask ourselves what the real purpose of this decision was. Indeed, the offensive is accused, in particular by the Westerns, of having privileged the strikes against the rebels, including the strongholds of the moderate opposition to the Damascus regime, rather than against Daesh. Minister, what do you think of this announcement and its impact on the continuation of the Geneva talks on Syria? How do we understand this decision in the geopolitical context we know? What are the implications of this decision for the operations of the international coalition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u31	Mr Minister, my group, like all Belgians, has taken note of the formal request from the United States to our country to extend its military intervention against Daesh to Syria as early as July this year. For the PS group, the Belgian response cannot be given to the rush and requires the involvement of the parliament. It was in this sense that we interviewed the Prime Minister in plenary. He promised us an in-depth debate in Parliament, indispensable for us, where ministers will explain the government's overall strategy in this area. Let us not be mistaken about the debate, but it is a matter of the fact that all the means are actually being used in this fight against terrorism and against Daesh. It is in this sense that my group has supported and continues to support our military intervention, via our F-16s, in Iraq as foreseen by the House Resolution of September 2014. Extending this mission to Syria is therefore outside the clear perimeter of the resolution. For us, such an intervention cannot take place outside of a UN framework, which has been absent so far. Minister, what exactly is the content of the United States' request to our country for F-16 strikes over Syria? What is your interpretation of the UN Resolution of November 2015, drawn up under the leadership of France? When does the government intend to give its answer? When will the House be consulted on this subject as promised by the Prime Minister? If so, will a resolution be voted on? What about your position with regard to the Syrian regime, knowing that it is a matter of finding a political solution after Assad that cannot go through him and whose crimes, as well as those of Daesh, cannot remain unpunished by international justice? Finally, in addition to possible military intervention, does Belgium intend to adopt a comprehensive strategy for Syria? Many children suffer from malnutrition, access to water is not optimal. Many children are no longer in school since the conflict and are recruited into the army at an early age. What additional response can Belgium provide to this deplorable humanitarian situation, including in refugee camps in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Minister, my questions are a few weeks old. Without a doubt, your answers are up-to-date, so I will try to update my questions a little bit. In two hours, in Geneva, the second round of negotiations between the Syrian parties begins. The first round from 13 to 24 March 2016 had not given much. Of course, it is hoped that this second round will bring more answers, more solutions to the end of this terrible war. But we also know that the truce is practically out of control. In recent hours, Russian bombings in Aleppo have taken place. Violations of the ceasefire have increased in recent days. The situation is again extremely worrying. Yet the Russian withdrawal had given a glimmer of hope. This truce was, moreover, one of the first to hold more or less. But today it seems that all of this already belongs to the past. Minister, in general, how do you see the evolution of the situation? What hopes do you put in this second round? What initiatives have you taken or are you taking to try to end this conflict? What is Belgium's position on what this intermediate period should be? Today, it is well known that on the Russian side, we want to work first on a Constitution. On the opposition side, it is hoped that there will be an interim government. We have seen the regime embark on elections that are taking place today, completely surreal in the midst of war and that have absolutely no meaning. Minister, I would like to have your political analysis of the situation today. What hope do you put in this peace process, in these negotiations that are taking place in Geneva? In what way do you see an exit from the crisis that could lead to the accession of as many people as possible and allow us to emerge from this war logic? My second question may be more specific, but it is fundamental. It deals with the fate that will be reserved for Bashar al-Assad. You have made statements that I fully support that he should be brought before the International Criminal Court (ICC). You have even gone further because you said that the question already arose as to who is going to seize the ICC. Minister, I would like to know how this is going to happen in practice. Which countries are now ready to enter this process? It is well known that the latter could telescope or undermine the political process today. It would be hallucinating and foolish not to bring Bashar al-Assad before the ICC given the crimes against humanity and the incredible war crimes he committed. I wish you had given me more details about the political position you took. What will be the timing for this translation of Bashar al-Assad and other war criminals before the International Criminal Court? My third question relates to my colleagues' request from the United States. My group believes that this terrorist sanctuary should not be left behind. It is this sanctuary that constantly attracts new recruits and that, alas, there are no other military means compared to the Islamic State to be able to reduce this terrorist sanctuary. We believe that it is equally absurd to fight them in Iraq and not in Syria, whereas for them it is the same territory, the same terrorist state, the same country. It is even more important, after the attacks of 22 March, to be able to respond militarily to these terrorist factions, especially since we have a responsibility for the atrocious crimes committed by some of these energists. However, we must be able to translate this into a political context. More broadly, what will be the political solution to this war in Syria? Then we have to check the legal bases that allow us to act. From this point of view, I would like to know the position of the government with regard to the legal bases and the extension and manner in which we think we are intervening both politically and militarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u33	Colleagues, on 27 February, a cessation of hostilities entered into force in Syria, with the exception of military activities directed against Daesh and Jabhat al Nusra. More than six weeks later, it appears that the truce is, however, rather respected even if violations have been reported on both sides and the situation is still very fragile. The situation in Syrian cities and villages has improved relatively as long as there are real improvements for Syrian citizens. Of course, we are extremely far from a normal situation, but the Syrians have gradually been able to resume a life less marked by confrontations and fear of constant hostilities. Russia's partial withdrawal is a positive development, but the real effect on the ground must be put into perspective. As you know, it will keep its military bases in Tartous and in the province of Latakia. President Putin also stated that he would be ready to return completely if the situation so required. Moreover, new airstrikes have already been reported today. Nevertheless, I also understand this withdrawal as a signal to the Assad regime that the negotiations must be taken seriously and that the full commitment of the government in Damascus is essential in order to find a political solution. This would obviously be a positive development. The coalition does not have coordination as such with Russia in the context of operations. In addition, the latter does not participate in the International Coalition's Command & Control instruments. The decision to withdraw most of the Russian troops in Syria will therefore not result in any change in the coalition's internal operational planning. Negotiations will normally resume today. The regime's delegation will arrive later because of the parliamentary elections held in the territories under its control. The UN Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura, whom I had online before his departure for Damascus, focuses on three aspects: geographical expansion of the cessation of hostilities, humanitarian access and political transition. The intention is to negotiate a transitional government within six months, which could hold new elections under a new Constitution within 18 months. In any case, I believe that we must give Mr de Mistura some room for manoeuvre. The European Union is, of course, involved in the negotiations and has seen its role grow, even though it is the United States and Russia that play a prominent role in this issue. The European Union thus sits at the table of discussions of the international support group and performs a key function in the humanitarian aid task force that has been set up. It therefore has a crucial role to play. I will continue to pay particular attention to this. As a reminder, in 2015, it adopted a comprehensive strategy for Syria and Iraq and in the fight against Daesh. The Foreign Affairs Council next Monday will discuss the evaluation of this strategy, which includes an important section on the political side. The European Union is also the largest humanitarian donor in the Syrian crisis. At this stage of the negotiations, it is still too early to talk about a new model for the Syrian state and to determine whether it should be federal and have some form of autonomy for some parts of the country. Of course, Belgium has extensive experience in this field. Moreover, his expertise is internationally recognized. If a specific request were addressed to us, we would therefore consider it with a positive a priori. The Belgian Government of course supports the negotiations and the peace process under the auspices of the United Nations in Geneva, such as the timetable for a political transition in Syria, as defined by Security Council resolution 2254. It is within this framework that all components of Syrian society, including minorities, must find their place in the Syria of tomorrow. The fight against impunity and for minority rights will be important components for the success of the transition. All these elements will allow Syrian refugees who have settled in the Region or in Europe to reimagin their future in Syria. Security Council resolution 2254 underlines both the importance of the peace process and the need to eradicate the so-called relief areas occupied by a terrorist organization recognized as such, namely Daesh. The efforts of the international coalition against these groups are within this framework, both in Iraq and Syria. The Belgian commitment in Iraq, as decided in the Chamber, is based on Article 51 of the UN Charter and the right to collective self-defense at the request of the Iraqi authorities. Iraq is currently under attack by IS from Syrian territory and the operations of the terrorist group in Iraq are supplied from Raqqa and Deir ez-Zor, i.e. from a part of Syrian territory currently occupied and not under the direct control of the Arab Republic of Syria. Indeed, the UN Security Council Resolution 2249 to which you refer was not adopted on the basis of Chapter VII of the UN Charter, but notes that IS is a new threat to international peace and security worldwide and has called on the UN Member States to destroy the areas occupied by IS in Iraq and Syria as places of refuge. The current air strikes by the coalition and Russia are causing territorial losses for IS in both countries. In his letter of 26 February, Defense Secretary Carter invites Belgium to extend its mandate to Syria when it returns its F-16s, to participate in the fight against Daesh. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, Parliament will soon have to decide on the response to the United States letter in order to act in Iraq and Syria. This discussion will take place within the government; a decision will be taken. Some legal arguments on the basis of which other countries have committed themselves on the ground are currently being studied. I confirm once again that an in-depth debate will also be held in Parliament, probably in the form of resolutions, but I do not want to raise the debate that we are going to have in the government here. From the start of the international coalition, the US, together with a number of Arab allies such as Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, are active over Syria. This is also the case for France, since the attacks in Paris. More recently, the United Kingdom, Denmark and the Netherlands have also announced their participation in air operations. It is obvious that this military response is only part of our action. With regard to the Belgian global approach and humanitarian aid, I refer you to my many replies already given to Parliament. The humanitarian crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries continues to deteriorate and the international community must therefore also adapt its response to this development. At the International Conference for the Humanitarian Crisis in London on 4 February, Belgium announced the release of €75 million in additional humanitarian aid, including €50 million for 2016 and €25 million for 2017. For more details, I refer you to my colleague in charge of Development Cooperation. Belgium continues to support the principle of combating impunity, including in the Syrian case. In this case, I remain in favour of a timely role for the ICC, while knowing that Syria is not a State party to the Rome Statute. As already explained, according to the Rome Statute, as Syria is a State not party to this Statute, the only two possible avenues for referral to the ICC are either the referral of the situation to the ICC by decision of the Security Council acting under Chapter 7 of the Charter of the United Nations, or the acceptance by Syria, by a declaration filed at the ICC Registry, of the jurisdiction of the Court in respect of crimes allegedly committed on its territory and/or by its nationals. All you have to do is refer to the situation in Ukraine. This second hypothesis seems for the time being rather theoretical with regard to the Syrian case. With regard to the referral by the Security Council, Belgium joined in September 2012 in Switzerland's initiative to submit a letter to the Security Council requesting the referral of the situation of Syria to the ICC. The letter was filed in January 2013 on behalf of 58 States. In May 2014, France submitted to the Security Council a draft resolution for the referral of the situation of Syria to the ICC, a resolution that was put to the vote and which received the veto from Russia and China. Belgium co-sponsored this resolution. There is little chance that a new draft resolution in favour of referring the Syrian situation to the ICC will now receive a different outcome. As I have already pointed out, however, there are alternatives to the ICC's path to combating impunity and human rights violations in Syria. One example is the prosecution of Hissène Habré in Senegal. We will continue to follow closely this vital issue for the future of Syria. At the moment, we are trying to give priority to a political solution, with a certain margin for negotiation by the United Nations Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura. It is possible to make progress. We also advocate the involvement of several partners in a military coalition. It is necessary to create a military coalition. It is true, however, that we must also continue humanitarian aid, not only in Syria and Iraq, but also in neighbouring Jordan and Lebanon. We will try to make progress in several areas in the next days or weeks. I confirm, of course, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, that the debate on Belgium's possible engagement in Syria will take place in the government and will then be discussed in Parliament, probably on the basis of a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u34	First of all, I would like to welcome, Mr. Minister, the fact that you have an extremely clear position with regard to the International Criminal Tribunal and the various judicial procedures that Bashar al-Assad will face in the near future, as soon as possible. On the questions I asked you, they dealt with the cause of the conflict in Syria and Iraq, namely the place of the Sunnis and the Shiites in each of the two cases. We may have an opportunity to deal with it at the time of the decision. None of the colleagues who asked a question mentioned the words Chiite and Sunnite. You did not mention them either in your answer. That is the basis of the problem. I will take the precedent of 11 September, where George Bush went down to the top by bombing Afghanistan, in the Pashtun areas, and after that in Pakistan to try to decapitate Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. I note that we are in 2016, that the Taliban are still in Afghanistan and Pakistan, like the Americans and we too. Before we head down to Syria to go to Daesh to do a lot, I think we need to take into account the diplomatic, geopolitical and military precedents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u35	Mr Hellings is, of course, quite right to propose a brief evaluation of the impact of Western military interventions. I think it is a matter of common sense to think about that. Despite that, I believe that a solution will be partly military in any case. There are so many other elements and aspects that need to be considered. The division between the Shiites and the Sunnis. The Sunnis' involvement in a future Syria. The involvement of the region. It is very important to avoid the impression of a Western crusade. The diplomatic progress that is now being made and which we must not be brusque. The international law to which I have referred. Again, if we do not respect international law, other countries with far less good intentions will not do so either. Then they will no longer have an example, and I think we should give this example. If we do not, it is not good in the long term. The consequences are there. Look at Russia's attitude after we have exceeded the UN mandate in Libya. This has been clearly established by almost everyone that we have exceeded that mandate. Then there is a very recalcitrant attitude of countries such as Russia and China as a result. I therefore believe that in the medium and long term we need to reason about the way in which we deal with such conflicts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u36	Minister, indeed, a course of action must be taken in this conflict, both to fight Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and to regard it in Syria in some respects as a government fighter that we want to bring down and a kind of ally. It's very delicate. Of course, it is necessary to integrate the problem of religious movements within this religion (the Shiites, the Sunnis, etc.).). Minister, you have answered many questions. More specifically, as far as mine are concerned, I think it will be necessary to measure the impact of the signal Putin wanted to give in relation to the withdrawal of Russian troops from the elections in Syria. Will there be a real impact on Bashar al-Assad's willingness to negotiate? We'll have to see and watch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would need a clarification to make sure I understood you correctly. You confirm that the United Nations resolution, which has been voted on, is not an international legitimation for you to strike in Syria. The answer must be yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u38	Mr Crusnière, the big problem with international politics is that it is not yes or no. So, if you want, I'll read the passage again, but I didn't say that. I explained how it was based on Chapter 7 or not and why it also asked the various partners to fight against Daesh in the territories it occupies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u39	Minister, I would ask you another question. Would that be enough for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u40	You will soon have the answer when the government takes an attitude on the whole debate. I do not want to give you the pleasure of having, in each of the committees – I know that there are many at the same time – the opinions of one minister or the other and of the Prime Minister in plenary. We have been telling you this for some time and I have promised you for some time, before any operation, the debate will take place in Parliament on the basis of a discussion that will have taken place within the government. I've got a few hours of flying in this house. You're not going to get me to say anything more until the government takes a stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u41	In fact, the Prime Minister was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u42	We will not convene a Conference of Presidents within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u43	No, even if we could. The Prime Minister was very clear in plenary. For him, that was enough. I was hoping for such a clear answer from the Chief of Diplomacy. But I take note. I look forward to this debate. I reiterate that we should quickly have a debate in Parliament on this subject, with all the ministers, as we asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u44	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, on Bashar al-Assad, I think you have been quite clear. Unfortunately, the process is blocked for the time being, but I hear the will of the Belgian Government and the initiatives you have taken. On the current political situation, I have not heard you comment personally on this new round of negotiations. You referred – I don't feel the "leg" of Belgian diplomacy. It makes you smile, but I would like us to be very proactive, given the human balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u45	In any case, I note that you have stated things. You said it yourself, that you had already said what you were going to say. Political news is very serious, very worrying. You say that, overall, the cease-fire is respected; but no one says that anymore. Staffan de Mistura is extremely worried. The British are worried. The Americans are worried. Everyone's worried. You're the only one who's very optimistic. Good. I thought I had information from you about this. In relation to the American request, we will have the debate in Parliament as soon as the position is formally taken by the government, but there is no longer much mystery about the government's position. For my colleagues who spoke, I would like to point out that the legal basis of our September 2014 resolution was Article 51 of the Charter, and nothing else. In the operative part and in the applications, it is based on Article 51 of the Charter, not on anything else. So it's all about that today. There will be no scoop to take the same legal basis since it was already the one that was taken by the resolution of September 2014. Furthermore, UN Resolution 2249, which has since been adopted, specifies, I quote, that "Member States that have the capacity to do so should take all necessary measures to eliminate the sanctuary that was established by the Islamic State in most of the territories of Iraq and Syria". It is a resolution that is relatively clear from this point of view. On the other hand, we will have the debate at the time of the parliamentary resolution and I would remind you that we have tabled a text so that we can have this debate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the Florence Institute is a prestigious institute co-financed by the European Commission and the Member States. It welcomes doctoral students from all over the Union every year. The first three years of these students are taken care of by the states that allocate scholarships. The operation of the Institute shall be financed by compulsory contributions from the Member States. In September 2014, the SPF transferred to the Communities the burden of the grants, without prior negotiation and without transfer of the budget. It is therefore up to the Communities to finance the scholarships of the students who have been selected by the Florence jury. Flanders has found a solution with the FNRS of the Flemish Region (FWO) to provide assistance to Flemish scholarship students. The French Community, for its part, was able to find a solution for 2015 but must find another alternative for the following years. Minister, can you tell me when the last renegotiation of Belgium's share of compulsory financing in this institution was made? The current share seems disproportionate in relation to the GDP criteria, to the population but also to the Belgian students who are admitted to this institution. Can a renegotiation of the Belgian contribution be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u47	Mr Crusnière, Belgium's compulsory financial contribution to the European University Institute (now 21 members) is governed by the Convention establishing it, signed in 1972 by the 6 founding members, namely Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. At the time, the key was established by taking into account both economic, demographic and political data, in particular according to the grouping of countries with comparable populations into "clusters" (e.g. Belgium and the Netherlands). This system has demonstrated its limitations since, over time, only successive enlargements have reduced the key of each Member State. The distribution key for Belgium has thus increased from 5.11% to 4.92%. Belgium is now in a position of net contributor, a position which is all the more difficult to justify in a context of strict budgetary constraints. A first renegotiation of the contribution key of the Member States was attempted in 2009, and then in 2010, with the active participation of Belgium, which was already defending the GNP key. On the basis of Eurostat's available figures, this key was thus retained in the first renegotiations as being easier to handle. We have defended this criterion of transparent and equitable distribution. Several Member States which did not wish to see their contribution increased preferred to maintain the current distribution, whereas this criterion of GNP key was chosen for the new Member States alone. At the initiative of Belgium, a further renegotiation of the Member States' contribution to the European University Institute was re-launched in 2015 with the support of the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands. Since then, a working group has been negotiating with a view to finding a lasting solution for funding the Institute on the basis of transparent and equitable criteria. At this stage, Belgium continues to support the inclusion of the GNP key, possibly accompanied by corrective measures and a transitional period. A final proposal should be ready by mid-September, without prejudging whether or not the entry into force of a new system will be successful, bearing in mind that it will have to be approved unanimously by the 21 Member States next December. We will continue to return to this situation, which puts us in a position of too great a contributor, but, I repeat, the unanimity of States will be required. Of course, all those who would be required to increase their contributions will be tempted to vote negatively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u48	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u49	Minister, I would like to ask you about your two-day trip to Lebanon. During this session, you were able to meet with many officials and mentioned several internal and international themes. Minister, can you first debrief us about your mission in Lebanon? During this visit, you gave Belgium's support to this country, which is confronted with the influx of many migrants. Can you notify us to what extent and in what way Belgium will be able to help in the reception of migrants arriving in its territory? You have also been able to discuss, if I am not mistaken, the internal political situation in Lebanon with many actors. You have rightly demonstrated the importance for Belgium of the resumption of the Lebanese dialogue and the appointment of a President so that the institutions can function properly again. Can you summarize the content of your interviews with the different actors? Does Lebanon, in your opinion, move towards a return to dialogue? Finally, you have seen the extent of the problem of waste management on the spot. You also mentioned the possibility for Belgium to help. Have any contacts been made or will they be made to realize bilateral aid between the two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u50	Mr Crusnière, the main objective of my visit was, of course, to reaffirm our country's solidarity with Lebanon, which must face unprecedented challenges because of the regional situation and, of course, the conflict in Syria. This visit allowed me to speak with the Lebanese Prime Minister, Mr Tammam Salam, and his Foreign Minister, Mr Gebran Bassil. I also met with the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon and representatives of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and UNICEF. Finally, I wanted to see the situation of the refugees on the spot, which is why a field visit was organized in Zahlé, in the Bekaa Valley, in a forensic centre financially supported by Belgium and in a grouping of refugees some 20 kilometres from the Syrian border. The official talks that I had allowed me to address the situation in Lebanon and, in particular, the question of the presidential vacancy. I stressed that, while I was aware of the obstacles, it seemed to me that the stability of Lebanon would undoubtedly be enhanced by the election of a new President and, ultimately, by the adoption of a new electoral law and the holding of parliamentary elections. I also had an exchange of views on various issues related to the reception of refugees, such as housing conditions, work permits, residence permits and child labour. The fight against terrorism in Lebanon and Belgium was also addressed, as was the situation in Syria and the region. With regard to Belgium's support for Lebanon, which is intended to help that country face the challenge of welcoming Syrian refugees, our country has taken on its responsibilities and provided important assistance in all, not to mention the important support provided through the European Union. More than EUR 15 million have been allocated to help refugees in Lebanon since the start of the crisis in 2011. In addition to this aid, Belgium made commitments at the London conference on 4 February, which I mentioned earlier, which focused on supporting Syria and the countries of the region: EUR 50 million in 2016 and EUR 25 million in 2017. The decision to allocate funds is under way, but it is certain that some of them will be used to finance the humanitarian response in Syria's neighbouring countries, such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. For the details of these aids, I would refer you to my colleague in charge of cooperation. I come to the question of waste, which you have also mentioned and which is very visible in some parts of the capital, but also around it. It will be primarily for Lebanon to define how it wishes to emerge from the crisis, but Belgium has recognised expertise, both in management and in the technical part, which could be useful in this area, as I reminded my interlocutors. There have already been contacts on the spot between Belgian experts and local authorities to see how to help organise this waste collection. With regard to the presidential vacancy, I must note that the increasing number of attempts at parliamentary meetings does not lead to a solution. We were at the 36th convocation of Parliament when I was there and it has not yet come to pass. It's a matter of concern. I want to add two things. Lebanon is probably a model, among others, that could be used to set up other political systems in other countries in the region, taking into account the different minorities in the country. The second thing I want to say is that since then I have had contacts with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lebanon again. It is particularly moving to have this kind of contact in the opposite direction for the first time. It is the Lebanese authorities in Beirut who call in Belgium to express their sympathy for the attacks that have hit our territory. We are used to going there and making this kind of statement in the opposite direction because Lebanon is sadly struck regularly by attacks. Very quickly, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs made representations to the Belgian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u51	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u52	Mr President, Minister, given the current context of the migration crisis in the European Union, the European Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid is proposing a new budgetary instrument to address humanitarian problems in the European Union. This new tool is based on an envelope of 700 million which will be spread over a period of three years (300 million in 2016 and 200 million in the following two years). If this project is adopted by the European Parliament, this new aid must be able to deal with all crisis situations (e.g. epidemics, humanitarian crisis, climate crisis, nuclear accident) within the European Union. The first Member State that could benefit from this directly available aid would be Greece. Athens needs 480 million to cope with the migration crisis and the reception of more than 100,000 migrants. Minister, can you give me the government's position on this project? Can you give me any indication of the origin of this EUR 700 million? Will the creation of this new tool not be at the expense of the European Union's budget for development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u53	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, this emergency humanitarian aid instrument called ECHO was formally adopted by the General Affairs Council on 15 March 2016. Belgium and the Belgian Government supported the adoption of this proposal for a budgetaryly neutral time for Member States' finances. Indeed, letter of amendment No 1 to the 2016 European budget submitted by the Commission on 3 March, which regulates the financial aspects of the creation of this new instrument, states that a first amount of EUR 100 million will be transferred from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund under heading 3 of the EU budget for security and citizenship to the new emergency humanitarian assistance instrument. This first tranche of aid corresponding to a readjustment under heading 3, therefore, it will not be necessary to make use of national contributions from Member States. The additional amount of EUR 200 million will be released later in the year on the basis of a needs assessment, in accordance with arrangements not yet specified by the Commission. This implies that, for the time being, the envelope of European funds allocated to Development Cooperation has not been affected by the creation of this new instrument. The additional EUR 200 million to be mobilised in 2017 and 2018 to reach the total amount of EUR 700 million will have to be set as part of the negotiations related to the adoption of the Union's annual budget for the financial years 2017 and 2018. We will have the opportunity to reconsider these decisions, which are still to be taken, but for the moment there is no need for complementary national contributions from the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am reassured about the use of the European Union's Development Cooperation budget because there are other needs as well. I have heard that, for the time being, this budget will not be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u55	Madam President, Minister, there will be a territorial exchange between the Netherlands and Belgium in the region of Visé. This is the Illal Peninsula. It's a logical exchange since the bed of the Meuse has changed. In addition, there is the Lanaye lock and the Belgians have an interest in having hectares around it. I had already interviewed you in April 2014. This is because this peninsula is both protected by Natura 2000 and as an area of scientific interest, and it is important that it continues to enjoy the same protection once the transfer of territory has been completed. The applications are different from one country to another, even within the European Union. Directive 92/43/EEC – Natura 2000 protection – requires an assessment of the impact of the proposed border modification, in line with the objectives of the Walloon Region, in order to preserve biodiversity and ensure the protection of rare species, many in this area. In April 2014, you assured me that you would draw the attention of the Walloon Region, the owner of the land, to the completion of an evaluation and that you would ensure that the existing protections are guaranteed. In November 2015, three commissioners were appointed by royal decree (25 November 2015) to delimit the border between the Dutch municipalities of Eijsden and Margraten and the Belgian municipality of Visé. Their mission is to clarify national administrative powers. Minister, were you able to ensure that the impact study was carried out with the Walloon Region? Will prior notice be sought from the Walloon Minister of Land Use Planning on the terms and conditions of the transfer? Has the European Commission been asked for an opinion? How can you, together with your Dutch counterpart, ensure that existing protections are maintained beyond Natura 2000 protection? Does the Belgium-Netherlands Joint Commission, launched in January 2014, still meet? If so, how often? What are the advances? Have you already received the minutes of the work of this committee? Is it possible, in the missions and tasks of the three Commissioners who have just been appointed, to ask them to also ensure the natural protection of the island peninsula?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Gerkens, in April 2014, my services drew the attention of our Walloon Public Service interlocutors to the need for the prior opinion of the EEC and the assessment by the Walloon Region on the basis of the requirements of Directive 92/43/EEC. My services stressed that this issue needed to be fully resolved before the final text on site transfer could be drafted. Subsequently, the competent services, both the Walloon Public Service and the Dutch services, continued to identify the consequences of the correction in question and to consult one another on this matter. Nature protection and other consequences are included in a draft protocol between the Walloon Public Service and the Netherlands. This Memorandum of Understanding is being finalized and is expected to be signed in June this year. The Protocol provides, inter alia, that the European statute for the Natura 2000 area, more specifically the area of the Habitat Directive I mentioned, will be automatically renewed after the national border between Belgium and the Netherlands has been rectified. The Protocol also provides that when the rectification of the national border enters into force, the transfer of Natura 2000 areas between Belgium and the Netherlands will be communicated to the European Commission through a revision of the standard data forms. In the event that the Dutch authorities wish to change the status of the zones, they would then contact the European Commission. Finally, the protocol also provides that the area of the Illal peninsula, which will be part of the Dutch territory after the border rectification, will be taken over by the province of Limburg in the natural area Goudgroen, the basic ecological structure. In the provincial plan, this area will continue to be affected by nature. I will ensure that this Memorandum of Understanding is signed before I sign the Border Correction Treaty. This will be done in stages: first, the Memorandum of Understanding and then the signing of the Border Correction Treaty. The commission launched in January 2014 was an ad hoc commission at the provincial level. The Commission completed its work in May 2014. The minutes of this commission were sent to me by the governor of the province of Liège in early June 2014. Secondly, my legal services pointed out that the May 2014 minutes did not require a new treaty to be necessary for the correction of the border. Only then did the need for a treaty appear, inter alia, for constitutional reasons on the Belgian side. As provided for in Article 6 of the Treaty of the XXIV Articles or Treaty of London of 19 April 1839, it was also necessary for a royal commission to issue a final opinion. This committee met on 19 February 2016 in Maastricht. My services ensure the protection of the Illal Peninsula. They are present at each consultation meeting between the Walloon Public Service and the Netherlands and at the meetings of the Royal Commission. My services are also assisting in the drafting of the Royal Commission minutes. The Commissioners of both countries are already aware that the memorandum of understanding will have to be finalized as a matter of priority. That is the state of the matter. Progress will be made with these two successive steps: first, the Memorandum of Understanding and, second, the signing of the Treaty amending the national border.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u57	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers and for your follow-up to this exchange of territory between our two countries. If I understand correctly, you take into account all the criteria for environmental protection, Natura or nature reserve of scientific interest. I didn't understand an element. First, there will be the transfer, the rectification of borders, and then only after, you will communicate the elements to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u58	No. First, the memorandum of understanding will have to be concluded before the border correction treaty is signed. During these discussions, if the Dutch authorities wish to change the status of the zones, contact will be immediately made with the European Commission on this subject. But there is no indication that there will be a change in the area. For the moment, the protocol provides that the Illal peninsula will be part of the Dutch territory and will be taken over by the province of Limburg in the Goudgroen natural area. This will remain a matter of nature. If there was a willingness on the part of the Dutch authorities to change the status of the zones, contact will be made with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u59	Could you make this contact, to say it's not okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u60	In any case to ask the European Commission on the subject. First, there is the memorandum of understanding before the border correction. We preserve ourselves by moving first on the protocol before signing the Border Correction Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u61	Madam President, Minister, we all note that the political tensions in Congo are increasing and that they translate into a number of events and protest movements. At the same time, we also note that there is increased repression on the part of the Congolese Government. The number of arrests and convictions of activists can no longer be kept up to date. I have mentioned a number of incidents in the written record of this question. I won't list them all. Following a peaceful protest against the fact that two well-known activists of LUCHA, Fred Bauma and Yves Makommbala, have been incarcerated for over a year, 18 demonstrators were arrested. On 10 March, three people from LUCHA were sentenced to three months and a fine of 100 000 euros. It just keeps going on and on. Minister, I have a number of questions. Have you responded to these fairly random arrests? Have you been able to keep track of the number of arrests? How many protesters are still incarcerated without a trial? Have you taken initiatives to ensure that demonstrators are given a fair trial or, better still, freed? If so, which one? Finally, what initiatives have you taken to ensure that further arbitrary arrests are avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u62	Madam President, I have two different answers to those questions. It might be easier if I first answered the first question. Mr Van der Maelen, as a result of the opposition operation "Ville Morte," six LUCHA militias were arrested by the police in Goma and two in Kinshasa. The six in Goma were sentenced to two years in prison shortly after, on 24 February. In a press release I condemned these severe prison sentences, together with countries such as France and the United States. The prison sentences for the six were reduced to six months. Recently, however, in Goma, 18 LUCHA manifestos were again arrested, who wanted to peacefully commemorate the fact that Fred Bauma and Yves Makommbala of the civil movement LUCHA have been detained without trial for one year. I also sent a tweet about this to ask for their release. According to the latest information from our embassy in Kinshasa, they would have been released after payment of a fine. All these developments are at least disturbing. Our country demands the release of all peaceful demonstrators and demonstrators, and respect for freedom of expression, as enshrined in the Congolese constitution and according to the country's international obligations, especially in the run-up to elections. Moreover, these developments are difficult to reconcile with the holding of a dialogue which the country wants to organise about the electoral process. I had the opportunity to discuss the situation of human rights and the rule of law in the DRC on 5 February with the Minister of Justice and Human Rights of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Alexis Thambwe, and on 19 February with my colleague, Raymond Tshibanda. I was talking about individual cases of detainees, I asked for information about the detainees and I asked for respect for judicial proceedings in these cases. We are following the situation very closely. I will also personally go to Kinshasa by the end of the month to make sure of the situation. Our diplomats in Kinshasa will continue to work with the Congolese authorities. It was agreed among the European partners to pay more attention to the human rights situation as a result of the increase in these worrying developments. For example, the EU came to Kinshasa on 9 March, under the impetus of our country, with a firm declaration of respect for human rights. I always try to get a positive response with regard to the release of a number of demonstrators. We will continue direct contact with the Congolese authorities on my visit at the end of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and, above all, for the efforts you have already made. I particularly encourage you to continue along the same path. We hope to receive more news from you on your return from Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u64	Madam President, my question is more about the conduct of the elections in the Congo. Mr Minister, after President Nkurunziza's continued power in Burundi, the "referendum" allowing Mr.Kagamé to run for office in the 2017 presidential election, the "saga of the third term" seems unfortunately to have to be repeated this time in the Congo where Kabila's supporters barely hide their will to remain in power, despite the constitutional requirement. Over the past several months, there have been successive attempts by the regime to circumvent the provisions of the electoral process and to delay deadlines. It is now impossible to organise the presidential elections in November 2016 as planned (and I am not even talking about the other elections). The electoral calendar is therefore more blurred than ever, and Belgium's desire for "credible, inclusive, calm and transparent" elections to be held on time seems less and less realistic. Even more serious, these various manoeuvres are accompanied by campaigns of harassment of political opponents, muzzling of the press, arbitrary arrests, "disappearances", violent repression of demonstrations, and so on. Mr Minister, in this context, is it not time to send even clearer signals to the current government in Kinshasa? What is the timetable for the various elections in the Congo today? What about updating the electoral file? What initiatives do you take to support the electoral process and elections that can be credible and at the earliest possible time? What is still our ability to influence the course of things in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? Is a firmer approach by the European Union expected in relation to the Congo? What actions have you undertaken or intend to undertake at European and international level in this matter? In order not to repeat the bad Burundian and Rwandan scenarios regarding the "third mandate", what could be a possible sanctions regime that could target the main political leaders concerned in Kinshasa?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u65	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, today the Congo is indeed at a crossroads and Belgium is very concerned about the political impasse that is continuing and growing in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We are concerned about the narrowing of political space and human rights abuses in a pre-electoral context. It is up to the international community to continue to call on the authorities to respect the Constitution and to organize elections. Belgium is fully in line with the Joint Declaration of the African Union, the United Nations, the European Union and the International Organisation of la Francophonie of 16 February. In the latter, the international community calls on Congolese political actors to make every effort, within the framework of the Constitution, to ensure the speedy holding of elections. Dialogue between the various political actors under regional or international facilitation has become inevitable in order to break this impasse. For Belgium, the challenge of such a dialogue is to ensure that a possible technical delay in the organisation of elections is as short as possible and managed peacefully. It must also consolidate, as far as possible, the democratic achievements achieved over the past ten years. We hope that such a dialogue can begin soon. Political dialogue must necessarily be accompanied by respect for the right of all to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly, in accordance with the Congolese Constitution, as well as the international obligations to which that country has subscribed. The Government should take measures of appeasement and confidence, such as the authorization of peaceful demonstrations, the release of political prisoners, etc. The opposition should also sometimes be called upon to moderate its comments or actions. It goes without saying that Belgium pleads for the mobilisation of the European Union's conflict prevention instruments. It must work with its international partners (such as the United States), but also African (such as Angola and South Africa), to stimulate and support the African Union's strong involvement in resolving the crisis in the DRC, in close cooperation with the United Nations. I have the opportunity to meet very regularly with a number of political actors active in the DRC. As far as the government is concerned, earlier this year I received the Ministers of Justice and Foreign Affairs. In addition, I had the opportunity to receive yesterday the minister in charge of relations with Parliament, Mr Tryphon Kin-Kiey Mulumba. We will continue to try to focus on the use of dialogue in order, in essence, to define the timing of elections, the type of elections to be held and their possible financing. For example, you are aware that the Cooperation budget still includes frozen amounts for local elections. Of course, we can look at how we can also mobilize the international community beyond what the Democratic Republic of the Congo's election budget will provide, but it is essential that a real path be laid out. I will visit Angola and the DRC from 25 to 27 April to assess the situation and examine how to advance the dialogue between all the political actors in order, I repeat, to chart a path for this Republic which is, today, at a crossroads of different possible paths.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u66	Minister, I am pleased that you will soon be visiting this region. It does indeed deserve our full attention. It has sometimes been overshadowed by the dramatic crises we are experiencing at the gates of Europe. I do not fully share the view that delays are of a technical nature. No one is fooled by the fact that these are political delaying manoeuvres in terms of the deadlines for the elections which are constantly postponed. I am very concerned about the development of the situation, because the Congolese will not accept these delaying manoeuvres. They have expressed this on many occasions. So we are moving towards a situation that could be increasingly unstable and violent. Therefore, I really want our diplomacy to devote all the energy necessary to avoid the worst in the Congo, to avoid a situation that could derail completely. To return to the will of the Congolese people, it is important to have credible elections. The Congolese, on two occasions, ran for elections in peace and with great will in order to have credible institutions. These are now becoming less and less legitimate. I would like our diplomacy to be able to devote the time and energy necessary to ensure that this country does not experience a development that could prove dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u67	Mr President, Minister, tear gas and water cannons were used when the newspaper Zaman in Istanbul was stormed some time ago. This happened not by an IS terrorist brigade, but by the Erdogan police themselves. A completely new, government-minded editor has taken over the newspaper. In addition to Zaman, the press agency Cihan fell prey to Erdogan. It is clear that Sultan Erdogan does not tolerate and tolerate any kind of criticism. After his grip on Zaman, his own infrastructure works were defaced on the front page. Unfortunately, these are not single incidents at all. There are many other trials in Turkey against members of the opposition, media and academics. Anyone who criticises the Erdogan regime is being addressed. If we can believe some sources, the Turkish President would even have hired a special unit of lawyers to draw up all these prosecutions and complaints. I give an example from November last year when Can Dündar and Erdem Gül were arrested. They worked for the magazine Cumhuriyet, one of the major newspapers in Turkey that is very critical of the Erdogan government. They are now accused of espionage, disclosure of state secrets, even attempted coup and support for terrorist organisations. This is purely and simply because they had published an article containing evidence of photos and a video of Turkish arms deliveries to militias in Syria. It would be an arms convoy of the Turkish secret service on its way to an Islamic rebel group in Syria. Turkey has long received criticism from all sides that it would supply arms to groups in Syria, including terrorist group IS. In the meantime, these two journalists have been tried for life throughout the trial. According to Human Rights Watch, however, they have only done their job. Of course, the President's intention is to create a climate of fear and intimidate critical voices. All journalists who criticize are faced with legal accusations. This involves providing documents on state security, accusations of political and military espionage, secret documents and even propaganda for terrorist organisations. They risk life imprisonment for such accusations. In almost all the rankings of countries where most journalists are in prison, Turkey is at the top of the list, while Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu is at the forefront of the EU's efforts. People are hypocritical enough to lead the marches organized on the occasion of Charlie Hebdo, for example, in order to express themselves as a major advocate of freedom of the press. There is another example to be added after my interpretation. The consequences of Erdogan's censorship are also felt in democratic Europe. We have to note that German comedian Jan Böhmermann has withdrawn his next broadcasts and that he must now even go into hiding simply because he has put a satirical piece on Erdogan on public television in Germany. It is clear that freedom of expression has its price today. I've already questioned you about this in the past. The lack of freedom of the press in Turkey is once again addressed in every progress report. This year's progress report by the European Parliament, the latest, has never been so critical. There is no mention of any progress in this area at all. I think we can speak more of a retrograde report. So, Minister, I have a few questions. Many angry Turks have ended up on the street following Zaman and all the incidents after that. My first question is whether they are supported by the Belgian Government. If so, how do you support them? Secondly, did this government openly condemn that totalitarian approach, that undemocratic approach of Erdogan in response to these recent incidents? I didn't find that in my own press. Did you convey all your displeasure to the Turkish government? How does that happen? When did that happen? There have been plenty of triggers in the recent past. Finally, do you not think that in these circumstances, rather than opening new chapters in the accession negotiations, the opposite should be done? Recently, I questioned you about this in plenary. At that time, you indicated the opening of a chapter on freedom of the press in the accession negotiations as an appropriate time to engage in a real dialogue on this issue. However, you are actually asking the pyromaniac to put out the fire and that is the reverse world. One has to be in order before one is rewarded with opening additional chapters. I therefore wonder what else needs to be done before these talks are suspended. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u68	Minister, I would like to ask you about your trip to Ankara with your colleagues from the Interior, Justice and Asylum. This trip allowed you to meet many Turkish politicians but also members of civil society and journalists. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of the various meetings you have held in this context? Did you mention the draft agreement recently reached in Brussels at the last European Council with your Turkish counterpart? You have, it seems, expressed the need for Europe to help countries bordering conflict zones, which have to cope with the massive influx of refugees. The billions of euros that Europe is preparing to pay to Turkey must officially benefit from projects for refugees. What monitoring will be established to ensure that this money actually benefits civil society organisations? Will these "checks" be carried out by the EU or by another actor? What are you planning to do for Jordan and Lebanon? As regards the reopening of accession negotiations with Turkey, you have repeatedly expressed your support for such a reopening. At this stage, Turkey is not at all ready to return to the EU because human rights and fundamental rights and freedoms are not respected. Minister, you have repeatedly put forward the argument that it will be easier to democratise Turkey by talking with it rather than leaving it on the side. Have you ever discussed with your European colleagues the strategy to be adopted so that fundamental rights and freedoms are respected? Following the Zaman case, did you discuss freedom of expression and freedom of the press with the Turkish authorities after meeting with lawyers, human rights defenders and Turkish journalists? Finally, can you tell us more about the Lachiri case? While he was intercepted in 2015 in Turkey, Belgium reportedly stopped asking for his extradition in order to judge him. In recent days, there have been rumours that Mr. Lachiri has been exchanged for hostages held by Daesh? You quickly denied these rumors, what about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u69	Mr Minister, at a time when European leaders are preparing to give several billion euros to the Erdogan regime to prevent Syrian refugees from entering Europe, I would like to talk to you about the political and human rights situation in Turkey and the repression that continues to plague all those who still dare to criticize the regime, particularly the Kurdish minority, with increasing force. Since July, there have been more than 700 deaths, including many women and children, including very young children, in south-eastern Turkey, which is a Kurdish region. In addition, many Kurds are marginalized and their rights are often undermined. Finally, as we know, Turkey has the sad privilege of being the country of the world where, in proportion to its population, there are the most imprisoned journalists. Therefore, Mr Minister, following the agreement between the EU and Turkey on the reception of refugees, what guarantees can one have that the right of asylum of Kurds is not directly restricted? What is the European Union's analysis of the question of respect for human rights in Turkey, particularly in the context of the accession procedure? Does the international community intend to look into the various potential abuses by the Turkish government, particularly vis-à-vis the Kurds in Turkey? Have you addressed this issue in your recent bilateral on-site discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u70	Mr President, Minister, before that European summit, there were quite a few legal doubts about the refugee agreement, among other things. Now that we know what the results are, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Can you indicate to what extent international law is respected if a refugee who arrives in Greece and applies for asylum and is entitled to it is sent back to Turkey where he cannot apply for asylum? There is no access to the asylum procedure in the European Union for the people who are being returned. Moreover, so far there has been no one-to-one principle. The latest figures indicate that just over 300 people were sent back to Turkey, but only about 70 Syrians have been recorded from Turkey. Does our country regard Turkey as a safe country? This is important because we need to know whether refugees are protected, can apply for asylum, work, allow their children to receive education and so on. Amnesty International has revealed that on some days up to 100 Syrian refugees are being put back across the border by Turkey. So it is with a country which carries out such practices that we conclude agreements. For refugees from Turkey there are many destinations in Greece and the Aegean. Routes can change. Are the EU and Greece ready to send refugees back from anywhere? What if the routes change towards Tunisia, towards Libya? What changes does this agreement change to other ongoing discussions on the refugee crisis, namely the Schengen Agreement and the implementation of the Juncker plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u71	Mr President, Minister, on 9 March you participated with your colleagues the Ministers of the Interior and Justice and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration in a meeting with your Turkish counterparts in Ankara. This was the third such meeting since 2008. The idea is to increase collaboration between the two countries, mainly in the areas of counter-terrorism, justice, security, consular affairs and migration. This type of meeting is obviously useful, especially since the topics discussed in it are more than ever a key priority in the light of international issues. Nevertheless, Mr Erdogan's Turkey has become less and less a reliable and friendly partner with the European Union and Belgium. This has been seen in particular in the context of the migrant crisis and the ruthless blackmail against a weakened and divided European Union. It is also known how there are increasing violations of rights and freedoms in Turkey: war against Kurdish populations, threats against journalists, arrests of academics who have signed a petition. Finally, we know the questionable role played by Turkish power in the Syrian conflict. Minister, how do you take stock of this meeting, on each of the items on the agenda? You mentioned before you left that all subjects would be discussed, such as foreign fighters, migration, freedom of the press, the Kurdish question. What was the end of it? How did you express your concerns on these topics? Have you been heard by your Turkish interlocutors? What progress has been made? As regards the accession process on 8 March, you defended the new impetus given the previous day by the European Heads of State and Government to Turkey's accession to the European Union. In particular, contradicting MEPs N-VA Mark Demesmaeker and Sander Loones, you said that the view of the federal government, of which the N-VA is a member, is that Belgium is in favour of opening negotiations on new accession chapters. Beyond the differences within your majority, this position of the government raises questions. This new impetus for the accession process was given to Mr Erdogan only because a weakened European Union had preferred to abdicate its values and give in to its blackmail in the context of the migrant crisis. This was the case as the number of infringements of rights and freedoms in Turkey increased. It is difficult to understand that this country claims so much to want to enter the European Union but acts in such a brutal way and contrary to the values of the European Union. On February 17, I was already questioning you about the increasingly serious violations of civil liberties in Turkey. At that time, I was pleased with the terms you used in describing the situation as extremely serious. However, this does not seem to have had much diplomatic impact on the Turkish authorities. Why, in the meantime, have we given in to all the demands of Mr Erdogan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u72	Mr De Roover is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u73	The trilateral Foreign Affairs – Justice – Home, but also Asylum and Migration that we held in Ankara allowed me and my colleagues from the Interior and Justice and Asylum and Migration to discuss with our Turkish counterparts a broad spectrum of topics of common interest, first and foremost cooperation in the fight against terrorism and radicalism and relations between the European Union and Turkey. This meeting took place in a sensitive political context, marked by the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey, under the influence of the migration crisis by worrying developments in Turkey, particularly as regards media freedom and the conflict with the PKK in the south-east of the country. Despite this context, this meeting was necessary in view of the important issues facing both countries. It took place in a constructive atmosphere, but also in an open and frank manner. This demonstrated a clear commitment by both parties to continue dialogue and cooperation at both the political and operational levels. I therefore consider that this meeting was useful. On the other hand, no difficult subject was eluded during the talks, either with regard to human rights or with regard to the Kurdish question. I am not going to dwell on the discussions carried out by my colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration, but I am still able to give you the following information on the results achieved in different areas. At the police level, cooperation with Turkey is crucial to apprehend and return Belgian and European citizens who are trying to join Daesh and other extremist groups in Syria or who are transiting through Turkey on their way back. The ministerial meeting on 9 March resulted in further progress as Turkey undertook to share relevant information on the Belgians included in its "no entry list" and on the functioning of the risk analysis units deployed at Turkish airports. In addition, a Turkish police liaison officer was sent to Brussels, which is expected to have a positive impact on the operational cooperation between the Turkish national police and the Belgian police forces. It is clear that contacts must continue at the operational level in order to implement commitments made at the political level and improve the procedures for the transmission of information. The dialogue on justice continues at the technical level, including on extradition and mutual legal assistance issues. In this regard, and in general, with regard to the fight against terrorism, the Minister of Justice and I have strongly stressed the primacy of the rule of law and the balance between security and respect for fundamental freedoms. Our judicial cooperation is fully within the limits of our legislation and existing international instruments. At the level of Asylum and Migration, a technical dialogue has been established between the Aliens Office and its Turkish equivalent, the Directorate-General for Immigration Management. The Turkish side is committed to facilitating the use of Istanbul Airport as a hub for the repatriation of third-country nationals. The dialogue is also continuing in terms of readmission following the entry into force of the agreement in this field between the European Union and Turkey. The issue of migration was also addressed in the context of the ongoing discussions between Turkey and the European Union on the migration crisis. We also discussed with our Turkish interlocutors the fight against radicalism and the necessary balance between repression and prevention. As I mentioned earlier, discussions with our Turkish counterparts took place in a climate of frankness. It is in this spirit that I discussed with Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu the question of fundamental rights and, in particular, freedom of expression and information. With regard to the resumption of the conflict in the south-east, I condemned the terrorist acts committed by the PKK and called for the resumption of political dialogue as the only lasting way to resolve the Kurdish question. On the sidelines of the trilateral meeting, I met with the Turkish Minister for European Affairs, whom I have just seen in Amsterdam in recent days, as I recalled earlier. I also met with members of civil society, journalists and the lawyer of two journalists who had been arrested shortly before. I also had the opportunity to open a seminar on the energy transition in Turkey, in which several Belgian companies active in the sector participated. To give you an example of the difficulties in managing communication during this kind of visit, I will refer to the Lachiri case. The rumours in the press on 10 March about his exchange for hostages held by Daesh are unfounded. I can inform you that our Consul in Ankara made a consular visit to Mr. Yassine Lachiri this morning. This allowed him to verify his identity and ensure that he was incarcerated in Iskenderun prison. It does not seem to me that he was exchanged, as was mentioned in press articles during our visit to Ankara. On the other hand, Yassine Lachiri's request for extradition to Belgium was refused by Turkey, which we were informed of on 21 March. Of course, I invite you to ask my Justice colleague any further questions on this extradition case. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have mentioned on several occasions here, the deterioration of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Turkey - freedom of the media and the rights of Kurds - is of concern to both the European Union and Belgium. In its report published last November, the European Commission noted the lack of progress on the principle of separation of powers and judicial independence, as well as its growing concern at the declines in freedom of expression. Since then, notably through the voice of the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, the European Union has been concerned on several occasions about the situation of journalists in Turkey, as well as about the prosecution of academics who have signed the petition for an end to the violence against the Kurds. Belgium is openly participating in this debate in European bodies. It is in particular on the insistence of our country that the conclusions of the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 incorporate this concern. I quote: "The European Union recalls that it expects Turkey to respect the highest standards of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. I made myself very clear about the events related to the Zaman newspaper and these issues were discussed, as I mentioned earlier, during the ministerial exchanges in Ankara on 9 March 2016. The situation of the Kurdish people in the south-east of the country is also closely monitored, both by my services in Brussels and by our posts in Turkey. I myself had the opportunity to discuss this directly with representatives of civil society during my visit to Ankara. Our position is clear in this respect, as is that of the European Union. It was true that Turkey faced a serious threat from the PKK and other terrorist groups on its territory, but the escalation of violence in the south-east must be stopped and measures taken against terrorist activities must be in accordance with international human rights standards. Priority must be given to the resumption of the Kurdish peace process and the search for a peaceful and lasting solution for the benefit of all Turkish citizens. In this regard, I encouraged the Turkish authorities to resume dialogue with Kurdish political representatives who peacefully express their position within the institutions. In international law, Turkey has clear obligations that it has accepted by signing the European Convention on Human Rights and other international treaties. Together with European partners but also in a national capacity, Belgium has worked to strengthen the institutions that ensure compliance with these obligations, including the European Court of Human Rights. I would remind you that in the framework of our chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, we have organized a ministerial conference on the responsibility of States in the implementation of the Court's judgments. You are aware that the Commission has already ruled on a large number of cases concerning the issue of the violation of Kurdish human rights. Following the resumption of violence, further complaints are pending before the Court. Finally, I would add that the priority of human rights for Belgian diplomacy is also very concrete on the ground. Our diplomats have recently attended the first hearing of the trial against journalists from Cumhuriyet and will also be present at the trial against academics on 22 April. Thirdly, I would like to return to the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 and the relations between the European Union and Turkey. As you know, an agreement was reached at the European Council on 17 and 18 March last between the European Union and Turkey with a view to resolving the migration crisis. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey clearly provides for the return of refugees to Turkey to be carried out in full compliance with EU law and international law. Any form of collective expulsion will be excluded. Migrants arriving on the Greek islands will be properly registered and any applications for asylum will be processed individually by the Greek authorities. This will be done in accordance with the Directive on asylum procedures. There is therefore no obligation for Greece to send the migrants back. As regards the return of migrants to Turkey as a safe third country, according to current EU legislation, it is up to Greece to take that decision. It is a matter of national competence. It should also be noted that the European directive on asylum procedures provides that all decisions, including inadmissibility decisions based on the concept of a safe country, must be subject to an effective remedy before a court. The Greek Parliament passed the necessary laws on 1 April, but without explicitly mentioning Turkey as a safe third country. Finally, even if the Greek authorities were to consider Turkey to be a safe country of origin or a safe third country, asylum seekers, under the same directive, will always be able to challenge the application of these concepts on the grounds that the country is not safe in its particular case. This was also confirmed during the debate in the Greek Parliament. Each dossier will be dealt with on an individual basis. The agreement of 18 March also provides that the European Union, in close cooperation with Turkey, will further accelerate the disbursement of the initial EUR 3 billion allocated to Turkey under the refugee facilities and will provide funding for more projects for persons under temporary protection to be adopted by the end of March with Turkey's rapid contribution. A first list of concrete projects for refugees that can be quickly financed through the facilities, in particular in the areas of health, education, infrastructure, food and other costs of living, will be drawn up jointly. At the beginning of March, the first contracts were signed and initial payments were made: EUR 40 million through the World Food Programme for Food for 735 000 refugees for the next six months and EUR 37 million through Unicef to bring extra 110 000 refugee children to school. In addition to reception in Turkey, the EU and its Member States also provide financial assistance for reception in Lebanon and Jordan. I have already said this in response to a previous question. The EU and its Member States also provide financial support under the Emergency Trust Fund for Stability to address the root causes of irregular migration and expatriation in Africa set up following the La Valletta Summit at the end of 2015. The EU is aware of the fact that routes may change. The conclusions of the European Council highlight the vigilance with regard to new routes for irregular migration and call for all the measures necessary in this context, in which the fight against smugglers is crucial. The EU-Turkey agreement is part of a broader approach to the crisis. The European Council of 17 and 18 March noted that a number of elements of the comprehensive strategy were already operational and called for further work to be carried out on the other instruments so that they could be implemented as soon as possible. During the negotiations in the Council, these dossiers are progressing steadily. With regard to the accession negotiations, I would like to stress once again that for Belgium, the accession negotiations with Turkey, as well as with the other candidate countries, are a process whose outcome remains open, which must enable the candidate countries to progress on their own merits. The opening of a chapter is only a stage in which the obligation to achieve results is the responsibility of the applicant country. The opening of Chapters 23 and 24, which deal with the rule of law and fundamental rights, would give Turkey a comprehensive roadmap for the reforms to be carried out and would allow us to have a mechanism to monitor these reforms closely. It is for these reasons that the Council, on 29 November 2015, undertook to continue preparations for their opening pending a consensus to do so. For the time being, however, this consensus does not exist on chapters 23 and 24, but only on chapter 33, which deals with financial and budgetary provisions. I repeat that I have pleaded on several occasions for progress on chapters 23 and 24, because I remain convinced that it is better to work on a road map and to monitor fully the progress made in Turkey or not, than to continue to debate it in each of its own parliaments, without direct contact with the Turkish authorities. W These are the recent incidents involving a Kurdish tent and the summoning of our ambassador, the following. The municipality of Brussels has granted permission to a Brussels Kurdish association, not the PKK as Turkey likes to claim to carry out this manifestation until 31 March. This Kurdish organisation is not a prohibited organisation under Belgian law. My services were informed by the Turkish embassy on 17 March of the position of this tent in the vicinity of the EU buildings and their related protests. On Sunday 20 March, the Belgian ambassador was summoned to Ankara to hear the Turkish protest in connection with the demonstrations that were taking place at this tent and who accused Turkey of holding an apology for the violence of the PKK. On Sunday 20 March I received the same telephone request from my Turkish colleague. I have given him the following points: the competent authorities have approved the manifestation, the use of PKK flags or photographs of Öcalan do not constitute, under Belgian law, participation in PKK activities and are not considered to be an incentive to commit terrorist acts. I said this after contact with the competent colleagues in the government and with the local authorities. During this conversation I pointed out my incomprehension and displeasure about the current anti-Belgian campaign conducted by the Turkish media and governments. This is not a conducive environment for cooperation between our countries, although it is crucial for the fight against terrorism. My head of the cabinet received the Turkish ambassador in Brussels on 1 April to send him a similar message. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have to continue our contacts with our Turkish colleagues in order to try to make progress on a number of points which I have mentioned and also to express our remarks, our grievances and our fears about the development of the situation in Turkey on various levels. I am well aware that Belgian parliamentarians also wish to express their views on this point, whether by pointing out the worrying developments taking place in Turkey or sometimes by taking President Erdogan's remarks at length, in order to organise meetings of joint committees in the plenary room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, unfortunately not to all my questions. My fellow Members spoke mainly about the European summit, while my speech was specifically about freedom of the press. Between the pre-arrangement and the agreement on 17 and 18 March, on 8 March, there was the International Women's Day, on which Erdogan in Istanbul literally had another women's rights manifestation broken. Apparently, that doesn't have any effect on closing deals with suets like Erdogan. It can only be seen that the human rights situation and the freedom of the press in Turkey are deteriorating. You are quite right to be concerned about this: every time I talk to you about this, I hear about the permanent state of concern. There are never any consequences or correct conclusions drawn. There is a big difference between going into dialogue with someone and getting into the blackmail policy that someone is conducting. That's a heavenly difference. You call it dialogue, but unfortunately in practice it is the second. Not only should the accession negotiations be stopped as long as there is no improvement, but I do not think that any deals can be made. Moreover, this deal does not resolve the asylum crisis. We have to establish today, as you yourself say, that the flow of migrants is simply moving. Instead of passing through Greece, we are now trying to enter through Italy. The Italian Government expects 200 000 additional asylum seekers by June by that other route. It is not only moving the problem, but also creating an additional problem. If the visa requirement is soon abolished for 78 million Turks, including part of the deal, it will trigger a new wave of migration, not least of the ten to fifteen million Kurds who are almost literally under attack by Erdogan. I find it incomprehensible that they do not oppose this more strongly and do not do so anymore. I certainly have a motion of recommendation ready to change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u75	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u76	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answers. However, it is important to stress that the attack in Ankara has not yet been claimed. It is striking to see how quickly it was claimed that this was an attack linked to Kurdish rebels. The next day, Turkish troops responded against the Kurds in northern Iraq with the victims we know and three days later, eight lawyers defending the Kurdish cause were arrested without justification. This is controversial in Turkey. Does not Erdogan's strategy conceal a political will against the Kurds? We can honestly ask ourselves the question. There were 15 million Kurds in Turkey and, for ten years, there was no single attack until the day after President Erdogan was elected. This is not due to chance. If the European Union wants Turkey's doors to remain closed, it is important to remain vigilant about what is happening there, of course, given the situation of Kurdish minorities, who are still often flouted in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u77	Minister, there is a problem with international law when we talk about the refugee agreement. I think there is a difference between how the agreement is interpreted and what happens in practice. How else do you explain that a number of Syrians have already been sent from Greece to Turkey? A Syrian war fugitive arrives in Greece and applies for asylum under that first registration procedure. In any case, that person is entitled to asylum, but he cannot realize his will for asylum in Europe because he is sent back to Turkey against his will. This is clearly contrary to international law. Moreover, is Turkey a safe country? You are transferring the decision to Greece, but we have agreed to the agreement with the Turks. It is a European agreement, not a Greek-Turkish agreement. Amnesty International has established that there are days when Turkey sends 100 Syrians back to Syria. That's not new. But now it's getting more and more intense. What kind of government do we make deals with? It is the European impotence to realize the Juncker plan, which translates into such an immoral agreement with Turkey. I don't think this is justifiable. It's not something to be proud of. I do not think that this is a great shame in European history. We are facing a migration crisis, a lingering Syrian conflict. How do we react? By putting everything in the hands of the Turks, by denying the Syrians the right to asylum. I find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u78	I note that Mr Dallemagne has left us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u79	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - having regard to the recent serious violations of freedom of the press in Turkey, including the brutal and violent takeover of the opposition newspaper Zaman by the Turkish regime; - whereas freedom of the press is one of the cornerstones of a democratic rule of law; asks the government - strongly condemn the lack of freedom of the press in Turkey and address the Turkish authorities; - to suspend fully the negotiations with Turkey on accession to the European Union as long as the freedom of the press in that country is not fully guaranteed." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - in view of the recent serious violations of press freedom in Turkey, including the brutal and violent takeover of the Zaman opposition newspaper by the Turkish regime; - Whereas freedom of the press is one of the cornerstones of a democratic State governed by the rule of law; asks the government - to strongly condemn the lack of freedom of the press in Turkey and to undertake the Turkish authorities on this subject; - to suspend fully Turkey's accession negotiations to the European Union until freedom of the press is fully guaranteed in that country." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Richard Miller. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Bellens, Ms. Els Van Hoof and Mr. Richard Miller. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u80	Minister, a number of questions on B-FAST have already been asked in the committee on 13 January. There you said that you were still working on the dossier and that you were going to evaluate it on the basis of, on the one hand, the audit which caused some fuss in the press at the end of December and, on the other hand, a number of reports that were still there. You were supposed to make a final report by the end of March and give us all the documents. You also said that the interdepartmental operation of B-FAST is maintained and that more international cooperation for B-FAST is being pursued. On 2 March, a report was published in the press that an EU-level medical corps would be set up in the context of humanitarian aid in the event of disasters. Minister, the timing of the end of March is over, so I have a few questions for you. When will you deliver the various reports and reports from B-FAST to Parliament? What are these reports and audits about? Following the creation of a medical corps at European level, have you looked at possible efficiency gains for B-FAST through increased international cooperation for B-FAST in the future? Are there similar foreign initiatives? What conclusions have you drawn from this? Will a financial review of B-FAST be carried out? What is your argument for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, through B-FAST, a multidisciplinary structure that has proved its worth for more than fifteen years, our country has shown on numerous occasions that it can intervene effectively in the context of international solidarity in the event of disasters by providing emergency relief. Due to the difficulties encountered in deploying B-FAST to Nepal, you promised an evaluation of this particular mission and B-FAST in general. In plenary, you indicated that this audit contained several criticisms, that an interdepartmental working group had been formed and that you would report the results to the House by the end of the year. Finally, you announced a real reform of B-FAST. Several months later, then, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. How do you assess B-FAST's overall action over the past 15 years? When do you intend to formally communicate the findings of this audit to the House? Will there be a debate? Where are you in your project of a "real reform" of B-FAST? Could EU-FAST coordination at European level be organised in a structural and permanent way on the Belgian multidisciplinary (civil and military) model? Do you intend to intervene in this direction at European level with the other competent Belgian ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u82	Mr Minister, as my fellow Members have said, and according to your reply of 13 January 2016, the phase of analysis, research and evaluation should be over. There have been many contacts between different actors. Our group has always advocated a number of accents when it comes to B-FAST. I would like to present it to you and to know what you have derived from the analysis phase. For my group, it is important that assistance is provided to missions by organisations and NGOs with local anchoring. The Red Cross and Doctors Without Borders are clear examples of this. A meeting was held between the Coordination Council and la Croix-Rouge, the Red Cross-Flanders, the Emergency Humanitarian Aid Service of DGOS and the UN Office OCHA. Can you describe the analysis of B-FAST made by those actors? What elements of this will or will not be included in the action plan to improve B-FAST? My group has always argued in favour of the existing advisory committee, consisting of experts and NGOs, being obliged to use it in the decision-making process today, which is not the case with regard to the use of emergency aid. Nowadays, this committee is not being used. Did you also consult with that advisory committee? Will you include this point in the action plan to improve B-FAST? Not only bilaterally, but also multilaterally, should improve synergies. Similarly, consultations were held with the European Operation Centre and the UN Steering Committee. Can you describe the analysis of B-FAST made by those actors? What elements were prevented from doing so? In a second phase, after the first trimester of the analysis, an action plan and an evaluation should be submitted to Parliament. When will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u83	Mr President, Minister, on 16 December last the Council of Ministers was able to read the first part of the evaluation report concerning B-FAST. In response to questions raised in committee on 13 January, you indicated that this first report would not be transmitted immediately to parliamentarians and that the second part of the evaluation would have to wait for more information and complete documents. More specifically, you responded that the final phase was under way in order to be able to come, at the end of the first quarter 2016, with a conclusion to the government and to submit all the documents before the government implements the guidelines that have been defined. These may still be adapted in the light of proposals made by parliamentarians. Minister, what is the status of this issue today? When will Parliament be able to receive all of the promised documents, the full audit report and the action plan for a better functioning of B-FAST that must result? What are the main options on the table? How do you really intend to involve our committee in this work and in the final drafting of this action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u84	Mr. Chairman, at the outset I must say that we are somewhat behind schedule in dealing with this issue within the government. Since January, many departments may have different priorities than such a debate. We are trying to make progress, but this discussion is not the main priority for Home Affairs, Defence and Social Affairs. We're working on it. Discussions on the internal evaluation of the operation of B-FAST have not yet been finalised. The external audit, which has been mentioned on several occasions, calls for a more common and concrete vision and strategy between the departments I have just mentioned, with a view to the development of B-FAST. During the discussions in February and March, this key recommendation for a common vision and strategy was discussed. This has resulted in a number of basic principles, such as the concept of first response, specialization and international cooperation. The concept of first responder remains a general starting point. The logic we have always followed is first in, first out. Action must be taken very quickly to be present on the ground as soon as possible. The decision-making process needs to be strengthened. In this regard, closer cooperation during the projection phase is crucial. This cooperation aims at a successful deployment of Operation B-FAST, enabling B-FAST to fulfil its role as first responder and thus provide added value to the international community during an emergency aid operation. Specialists call this the harpoon principle. This first response mission has been clearly identified as a gap by other actors with the international community and humanitarian emergency assistance. It will also specialize in engagement capabilities based on internal risks, our available expertise and international needs. In addition, the Coordination Council is in favour of studying the integration of B-FAST's capabilities into European emergency response capabilities and in the European medical profession, the European pillar of the World Health Organisation for international assistance in the first instance in the event of a threat to public health. I'll go back. In doing so, B-FAST will become the Belgian interdepartmental anchor for the first response to emergency aid abroad. At the moment, the new vision and mission for B-FAST has been determined on the basis of the external audit recommendations. This enabled the strategic objectives to be defined. Technical working groups will further examine the operationalisation of the other recommendations. Reactivation of the Advisory Committee will also be taken into account, taking into account the experience and expertise they can provide. I will deliver the various reports to Parliament, as I have already said, as soon as that exercise is completed. I acknowledge that there has been a delay in the last few weeks and months. The other reports deal with the same themes as the internal Belgian evaluation, namely the lessons learned after the operation in Nepal in April and May 2015 and the operational review of the operation of B-FAST. The Emergency Medical Corps is intended as a European pillar of the World Health Organisation, a global initiative to better respond to public health threads in the future. The Ebola crisis in West Africa or the outbreak of the Zika virus on the American continent are good examples. We are also trying to obtain a European pillar in a global organisation to allow action on the ground as soon as possible, as with B-FAST. On a proposal from the European Commission, this medical emergency capacity was added to the European Emergency Response Capacity, a component of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Just as further cooperation with the European Emergency Response Capacity on urgent humanitarian aid has already been discussed, the possible cooperation with the Emergency Medical Corps will be examined in the same way. The European Commission had already given this response after an initial evaluation of our action, not in Nepal, but in a previous case. The European Union was wondering why we should not create a European capacity to work on the same actions. So we are trying to do this through a European pillar within a global health organisation and the global capacity to carry out emergency actions. B-FAST's financial resources are an integral part of the FPS Foreign Affairs budget and consist of two basic allocations, namely Operations and Investments. Those budget lines are subject to the same accounting audit processes as the other basic allocations at Foreign Affairs, through the Risk Management Service. They are also regularly evaluated by the control services available to the Federal State, such as the Treasury Inspectorate and the auditor of the commitments. So far, no irregularities have been identified by these filters. This shows that a separate financial review is not appropriate. For financial estimates on the use of, among other things, staff or specific material under B-FAST, I would like to refer you to my colleagues in the Federal Government, namely Mrs De Block, Mr Jambon and Mr Vandeput. We work together with the various departments. B-FAST means first and foremost the coordination of various possible actions by different departments. I will return to Parliament as soon as possible, hopefully next week, with conclusions on the current discussions within the government. I think it will be necessary to make the coordination of B-FAST more professional. I repeat that we have always worked with volunteers from the various departments, and I think it is necessary to continue in the same direction in the future, including by calling on volunteers. Perhaps it is possible to professionalise the coordination capacity. I am engaged in discussions on this with my colleagues in the Interior and Defence Committee. Defence is an important partner, especially for logistics activities and support for B-FAST. There are also activities possible with my colleague from Health. With regard to the control of B-FAST's expenditure, there are several posts of internal control by the Foreign Office. Sometimes there are expenditures by other departments in cooperation with Foreign Affairs, and that is where, I think, the same control happens. Those questions should be addressed to the various fellow Members: I do not have specific answers on specific expenditure by Defence, Home Affairs or Health. In my department the checks are carried out in the same way as the checks on the other basic allocation points. I have no knowledge of any criticism from the Treasury Inspectorate or other supervisory bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand the delay, the last few weeks have been very exceptional. I do not hear when you think you are going to make a specific proposal: I would like to hear that from you. I would also like to thank you for the figures in reply to my written question. That was interesting reading, in the sense that this strengthens me in my belief that an overview of the finances for B-FAST is certainly necessary. You've gone back a long way, to the first shipment, but it's the budgets, not the detailed cost estimate I asked for. I can see that the costs have been mentioned for a number of shipments involving the Defence Department. There are costs in that, according to the figures. This supports me in my opinion, and you yourself indicate that B-FAST has been given an interdepartmental service. In order to get a real view of this, please advise me to ask several departments about the cost picture. It would therefore be useful to have a clear financial overview of what B-FAST costs us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u86	Minister, I also expected to get some more specific information on the schedule. It won't be for today. We shall therefore return to the second session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u87	I fully understand the delay. It's understandable. I am pleased that at first sight no irregularities have been detected in the financial field. Two important points of interest are among your intentions. I am pleased with that. On the one hand, there is the local anchoring. You want to involve the Advisory Committee more closely. You have made that quite clear. On the other hand, you want to work towards a European pillar. I think it is obvious that not every country should be the first to place its flag and that the most efficient way of working should be done. It is clear from your answer that you are very much in favour of this. I am, of course, curious about the concrete content of the action plan. I hope it gets there this year. We will continue to follow up these concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u88	I also understand the delays given the emergencies of the moment. I agree with my colleague Van Hoof. In general, I think that we should have an in-depth debate once we have these documents. I also agree with the question of when you think we could have these documents and have this in-depth debate. It is a matter of interest to Parliament. It is obviously an important instrument for international relief, solidarity and our foreign policy. So I think it is important that we have an in-depth debate in Parliament on the basis of these documents and evaluations. You know that I have long hoped that we will have both a better understanding of the impact of B-FAST's balance sheet so far and see how we can reorient this instrument. Like Mrs Van Hoof, I do not think that being the first on the ground is necessarily indispensable. What is very important is to be effective. From this point of view, my personal experience in managing a rapid response unit of a large international organization on all disasters shows that in reality, in general, it is the local capacities that best enable first aid to be taken care of because it is always too late. On the other hand, what is needed is the delayed urgency. Indeed, after three to five days, extremely serious problems arise that no one answers. It's something we can discuss once we have the background documents, but I think it's important that we have that in mind every time a country thought it was able to respond to the urgency of the first 24 hours, it went wrong. International organizations have made this observation for a very long time and have incorporated this into their relief arrangements for a very long time. These are considerations that date back 30 years, especially after the earthquakes in Mexico, Armenia and other countries. These are therefore important elements and especially for a government which, more than a large NGO, obviously has a series of possible political and budgetary coordination constraints. It is important to take this into account. On the other hand, first in, first out, it would mean that we would leave first. I don't think it's a good idea, since what's important is to be able to stay on the ground for a while. We quickly forget the big catastrophes. It is necessary to be able to take on aid that remains an emergency aid, which remains a first aid aid, but which can last for weeks or even months after the disaster. This seems to me to be essential if we are to be effective and to have evaluations of our interventions now positive. As for the other two elements, specialization and European integration, I can only agree with the proposals. But again, I believe that we need to have a serious debate on the basis of the final reports. We therefore hope to have these documents quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic383x.u89	Minister, there are about 20 questions left for next week. That should work.
