ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I had already asked this question before the judicial and parliamentary holidays to your colleague, Mr Peeters, because I thought he was in charge of this competence. Minister, in Belgium, playing on credit is prohibited under the Games of Chance Act 1999. However, on many websites accessible to Belgian players, the credit card can be a means of payment. Just use my smartphone to see it. In addition, if you want to bet for a bet or play casino, etc, the sites openly explain how the future player can hijack the rules and pay with a credit card. Following the observation of the gambling commission which, in its 2015 annual report, shows that the Belgian has lost more than EUR 1.1 billion in games and that of this money, more than 367 million are spent on online games, I think it is time to take the problem to the body. Minister, are you aware of this situation? If so, what measures are you going to take to sanction gambling sites and avoid this kind of situation harmful to players? If not, are you going to put in place with the gambling commission, an investigation and a plan so that this kind of situation doesn't happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u2	Mr Massin, the law does indeed prohibit payment by credit card. The gambling commission has always insisted that operators comply with these provisions, but it has no control over indirect payment. In fact, ePay, Ogone, Paypal or other online accounts are fed in various ways by their holder, including credit cards. Online gaming operators receive payment from online accounts, but do not know how these accounts were previously fed. The gambling commission is not aware of the fact that credit cards are being distributed to participate in gambling. In addition, banks have the practice of giving their customers credit on a view-by-view basis. Nor is the Game of Chance Commission aware that this type of credit is granted for the purpose of participating in games of chance. The gambling commission has only been questioned twice on the subject without being a formal complaint. In the context of the royal decrees on online gambling, which are in preparation, the problem of indirect payment by credit card will be examined from the perspective of the policy of protection of the player.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u3	Minister, thank you. I understand your explanations about the take on indirect payments – Paypal, for example. Similarly, it is not necessarily known how the accounts were fed. However, on sites that are accessible to players, you are told how you can pay by Visa, MasterCard, etc. The question is therefore one of the constraint that can be imposed. In this respect, the Commission should be given the means – through a legislative amendment – to intervene or simply prohibit this practice by allowing the courts to close the relevant online sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like here to be the relay of the voluntary sector. The experts of the Belgian Centre for Company Law sent you a note in October 2015 proposing to reduce the number of legal forms for companies to 4 instead of 18 at present. At the time, you were in favour of an in-depth reform of our Corporate Code. A group of experts has also been set up with regard to the revision of the Company Code. It seems that this reform would also affect the non-profit organisations, the mutual societies and eliminate societies with a social purpose. The non-market sector in the north and south of the country is concerned that its specificities are no longer reflected in this new legislation. A common core would indeed be set up and would strengthen the trends to assimilate NSOs with economic entities, which could lead to problematic implications at European level and thus also in terms of subsidization capacities. Moreover, it would appear that another group of experts has been set up with regard to the Civil Code. Again, there are specificities at the level of NSOs and non-marketers, particularly with regard to the liability of directors. Minister, what are the deadlines for reforming the Corporate Code? Will the specificities of the voluntary sector be taken into account in this reform? Are you already clear about the changes that will be made? For the group of experts, have we included specialists in the non-market sector, the Flemish dome of the ASBLs and the French-speaking community sector telling me that there is no expert in non-marketing. What are the deadlines? What are the aims? Will you take into account the specificity of the voluntary sector and the non-commercial sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, we wish to complete this reform in this Parliament. Such an in-depth reform must of course go hand in hand with a well-developed transitional law which leaves companies and associations the time to adapt to the new law. The law of associations will be structurally incorporated into a single Code of Societies and Associations. This will require only limited intervention, since the two legal systems are de facto already largely harmonized. The association will continue to exist and the foundation will be maintained. It is clear that the specific nature of the law of associations will be taken into account. As regards the content of this amendment, I refer to the exchange of views I had with your colleagues in the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law on 6 October 2015. A report has been made. Fourthly, I have set up several working groups to prepare reforms for some parts of the Civil Code. These are, in particular, the provisions of the Civil Code relating to inheritances, matrimonial regimes, property law, the law of obligations under certain contracts, the law of evidence and the law of civil liability. These working groups are mainly made up of professors specialising in the subjects concerned. For example, the Succession Working Group also includes representatives of the notariat and bar associations. In my opinion, the working group on companies and associations has specialists in company law and non-market law. The main aim of this work is, on the one hand, to modernise certain provisions and, on the other hand, to establish a clear framework. It is essentially a matter of recoding the provisions. The work will be finalized in the form of preliminary draft laws in the course of 2017, so that Parliament still has a lot of time to study them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u6	Mr Minister, when you say that Parliament will have time to examine them, I have no doubt. But, from what I have seen during this legislature, the time to examine them does not mean that there will be space for the development of pre-projects. I know you discussed it with parliamentarians in October 2015. As I know that when the texts are tabled in Parliament, the carrots are cooked, I would like here, upstream and sufficiently early, to stress the particular, specific dimension of this voluntary sector and the non-commercial sector in its broadest term. A single code could erase these specificities. I know you are convinced of this, but it may be an opportunity to recall the added value and capital in all its dimensions that this important sector brings. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u7	Mr President, Minister, you know that I am an active member and chairman of the Naturalization Committee. In this capacity, I regularly receive emails or phone calls from people who ask about the state of affairs in their files or why their handling takes so long. I also get stories, however, where I find that they are very often misinformed by the municipality. This concerns people who could have applied for nationality perfectly through a declaration from the municipality, which is ultimately also a right. They should therefore not have followed the procedure of naturalisation, which is a favor procedure, which is more difficult and often takes much longer. There is, for example, the case of a retired man from Zwijndrecht, who, in 2011, had started to ask for nationality at the time of the old procedure, and had been told to the municipality that he had no fixed income. I don't think we can do that kind of thing. This has never been a condition in the old law. Even in the new law, there is an exception for pensioners. Pensioners must, of course, not prove that they have worked for at least one and a half years. These are matters on which we can assume that municipal officials who refer people will inform them correctly. If that man had made his application through the municipality, he would have gotten his nationality much faster than he did now, after he started the procedure through naturalization. I was just giving an example. However, there are regular officials who, certainly not always consciously, misinterpret things or misinformed people, with all the consequences. How have municipal officials been informed about the legislation in the past and how have they been informed about the legislation at the time of the amendment and now with the current legislation? Is there sufficient information or an information brochure about the nationality statement or how someone can become Belgian? If it does not exist, do you intend or can you ask your services to draw up such a brochure? What can you do to ensure that officials give the right information to citizens who want to become Belgian? Can you do that by sending a letter? Can additional training be provided for officials who are not sufficiently familiar with the subject matter? The matter may be too complex. The officials concerned must have a great deal of legislation. They need to know which files are still under the old procedure. However, they certainly need to know what the legislation looks like now, so that they do not ask questions that are not included in the legislation or refer people to it. Sometimes people come asking for naturalisation, but they actually mean that they want to become Belgian. In that case, the municipality should report that they meet the conditions and can thus also become Belgian via declaration. I understand that people do not always use this terminology correctly, but officials should inform people correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, my services have made a special effort to clarify the new nationality legislation as well as possible. The new legislation of 4 December 2012 was set out in detail and clarified in the Ministerial Letter of 8 March 2013 on certain aspects of the Law of 4 December 2012. This letter was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 14 March 2013. In addition to a clear discussion of the new nationality legislation, the letter also discusses some types of cases in application of the new legislation. A comprehensive report was also added to the King and the Implementing Decision of 14 January 2013 published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 January 2013. My services also took part in training days for civil servants provided by their professional associations and private organizations. No information brochure is currently made available by the FPS Justice with regard to nationality law. Nor is this planned in the short term. On the website of the FOD the seeker can consult an overview of the legislation. Citizens can also find a lot of information on the website of certain municipalities and other public services, such as the Flemish Agency for Integration and Integration. All this must take account of the fact that the new law has given greater responsibility to civil servants regarding the acquisition of nationality. It is an official of the civil status who is required to examine the completeness of the declaration and to assess its admissibility. In this matter, my services cannot intervene in the procedures for obtaining nationality for adult foreigners. They only play an advisory role, and then only with specific questions in complex cases. However, my services have always answered their questions. Finally, I would like to inform you that an electronic platform has recently been put into operation within the FPS Justice, which was established for the benefit of the municipalities. This platform shall provide opinions of general scope on, inter alia, nationality to civil servants only.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u9	Minister, at the time of the entry into force of the new legislation, there has been a formation. There has also been a debriefing, but apparently that is not enough, as I still receive regular emails from people who have been misinformed. Isn't it necessary to repeat that formation after all? The existing letter may also be recalled if you ask the Attorney General to redistribute it or if you can redistribute it yourself. That would really be desirable, so that the officials would inform the people correctly. Secondly, as far as the brochures are concerned, there used to be a brochure from a civil society organisation, but since these organisations have less and less resources and sometimes no longer exist or are integrated into a Flemish structure, as is the case with the Flemish Agency, they no longer produce brochures. It is true that they have a website, but very often people do not immediately find their way to that website. I therefore think that a brochure of this kind which can be made available to local authorities' offices would be useful. I hope that you will take an initiative in this area and make leaflets available. You do the same for other matters for which you are responsible, so I think this would be a good thing. Not everyone has access to the Internet. Not everyone knows that in order to know what nationality legislation is like, one has to go to the website Aliensrecht.be, to find out which category one falls into. There should be at least one flyer. If necessary, you can refer to additional information on certain websites. I hope you'll consider making such a leaflet. Repeat formation, repeat the letter. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u10	Exceptionally, I will do my best, Mrs Lanjri. The association of civil servants is working very well. Those people meet regularly and have good study days. As far as I can, I will contribute to the realization of your wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the Constitutional Court has annulled Article 335, § 1, paragraph 2, third sentence of the Civil Code, replaced by Article 2 of the Law of 8 May 2014 amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality of men and women in the method of transmitting the name to the child and to the adopted person who provided that "in the event of disagreement or in the absence of a choice, the child shall bear the name of his father". The Court nevertheless decided to maintain the effect of the provision annulled until 31 December 2016. It is therefore necessary to provide for new legislation in the event of disagreement or in the event of a lack of choice between parents as to the family name they wish to give to their child. Minister, have you determined the option chosen to replace the system overturned by the Constitutional Court? If so, what is it? Do you intend to offer families who have been subjected to the application of article 335, § 1, paragraph 2, third sentence of the Civil Code as amended by the Law of 2014, the possibility to reconsider their decision and to change the surname of the child concerned? Since the aim of the 2014 Act is to establish equality between men and women in the way of transmitting names to the child and to the adopted person, have you consulted the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men? It could shed some interesting light on this file. If so, what are the conclusions of this consultation? If not, do you intend to meet them? If not, why? How long do you intend to submit your bill to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will no longer outline the history, because the problem has been clearly raised by Mrs Fonck. However, the demand for the default scheme in the event of a disagreement between parents about the naming of their child remains. In my opinion, it is logical that the dual name should be used. In France, in this case, people work on the basis of the alphabet. In Luxembourg people work with lottery. I remember when we discussed the law in committee we laughed at the question of whether we should have every civil servant thrown with the tartling to decide which should be the first of the two names in the event of disagreement between parents. Mrs Fonck asks for an opinion from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. I think it's already given an opinion. I didn't see the advice myself, but I read about it in the paper. The Institute referred to the lottery, hence I remembered the story of the civil servant who must draw a lot to know which name of the parents should be the first. I ask myself questions when it is necessary to do so individually. Above all, we must strive for parents to consciously choose the name of their child, preferably in broad agreement and without disagreement. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask the following questions. What is the status of looking for a legal solution? Do you have an understanding of an arrangement? A collective draw can be another possibility. In year X, for example, one starts with the letter a, the year after with the letter b, and the year after with the letter c. Then one can of course still look at the moment one gives birth to know which letter one can take first, but I do not think that the disagreement between parents will go that far. At least I hope not. I believe that Mrs Fonck is early on to see whether there is a transitional arrangement for persons who have been given a choice under the previous regime. How can we possibly get back to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Becq, pursuant to the judgment in No. 2/2016 of the Constitutional Court, I asked my administration for a thorough and comparative analysis of it and to prepare a preliminary draft law amending Articles 335 and 335b of the Civil Code on the method of handing over the child's name. Without prejudging the negotiations within the government, the preliminary draft law proposes the following guidelines. The default scheme which grants the child the name of the father in case of disagreement or in the absence of choice is abolished. Parents are invited to systematically choose the name to be given to the child when both the fatherly and the motherly lineage are established at the same time. The award of the dual name shall be provided in the event of disagreement between parents, with a neutral rule to determine the order of the two names. A slope proposed is to provide the alphabetical order of the names and an identical solution for the co-mothers by amending Article 335ter of the Civil Code. In addition, this preliminary draft law proposes to provide for a transitional provision to change the names of the children who have been given the father's name, pursuant to Article 335(1), paragraph 2, or the co-parent, pursuant to Article 335b(1), paragraph 2, because of disagreement between the parents or the absence of a choice of name, subject to certain conditions, in particular in terms of time limits. It provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2017, in accordance with the provisions of the decision of the Constitutional Court. I have asked the administration to analyse the recommendation of the Institute for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men concerning the implementation of Constitutional Court Decision No.2/2016 on the transmission of the name and to take it into account in the drafting of the draft law. My administration has since completed the drafting of this draft law, which will soon be put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. It will then be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion before it is tabled in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will be waiting for the bill, which you have just outlined. However, I believe that in such a debate, even though a vote had taken place in 2014, when it was a ruling of the Constitutional Court, it would be really important to have a societal debate at parliament level. The government is busy positioning itself following a decision of the Constitutional Court and, while not included in the government agreement, why not open the debates here quickly, in which it would be important to involve civil society? That's a proposal I'm putting on the table. It would be important not to move forward in this type of case in a majority versus opposition logic, but rather to have a societal and non-political approach first and foremost. Also, did I understand that you were going to legislate through your draft surrogate mothers bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u15	I said we were going to try to find a similar solution for co-mothers. They're not surrogate mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u16	All right! They're co-mothers and not surrogate mothers at all! I misunderstood!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u17	You are talking about the next question that still needs to be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u18	In that case, excuse me, I misunderstood! They're co-mothers, not surrogate mothers. Of course, it is entirely logical to bring about a comprehensive solution. But I would like to urge the minister or the chairman of the committee. I think that this subject would require a broader debate. This is not just a political position taken by a majority government. On the contrary, it is an extensive societal debate and, frankly, we should listen to the latter about this type of debate. In any case, the participation of civil society in this type of debate seems to me to be even more essential than for other topics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u19	(...) that, in the event of disagreement, the contours of the decision-making area are clearly defined and that neutrality is particularly important. In any case, it can't be a gender choice. The possibilities need to be looked at. I call for a simple administrative solution rather than a complicated one, and I also call for the registration of civil servants to be as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u20	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the European project LAW-TRAIN, which is financed by your department and those of other countries to the tune of EUR 334,000. This partnership raises questions, since I was able to read that the Portuguese Government had decided to withdraw from the project. Minister, can you tell me what Belgian funding for this project is for? What are the conditions for this, particularly with regard to respect for human rights and the rule of law? This latter aspect is strongly criticized by some associations. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u21	Minister, I would have liked to talk to you about the research project in question. It is a fully European funded research project. The Belgian FPS Justice is involved, just like the KU Leuven and a number of other countries. Until recently, Portugal and Spain were involved. The aim of the project is to develop some kind of virtual research platform, which should help train the Israeli police. That's the idea. That is not obvious, of course. The reputation of the Israeli police in the field of human rights and international law is widely known. Several organisations, not least the United Nations, have already clearly evaluated this and reported on human rights violations, on the use of abuse by Israeli police and on practices of administrative detention, which can be extended indefinitely. There is no time limit on that form of detention in Israel. The methods of the Israeli security services are part of such a system of repression, military control and racial discrimination against the Palestinian people. All this serves to perpetuate the illegal occupation of Palestinian territory. This illegal occupation does not benefit stability in the Middle East and violates our security interests. Europe but also the Belgian federal government calls this occupation illegal. That's obvious. Israel also knows that we condemn this occupation in such terms. There is, however, another aspect to the matter. The headquarters of the Israeli police are in occupied territory in the West Bank, which, of course, makes the issue very complex and does not make it obvious that the project in question should just happen. As Mr Crusnière said, Portugal withdrew from the project for a number of reasons. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, Europol has an agreement with Israel and the Israeli police. However, since 2005, this agreement has been frozen just because of a number of legal complications, which makes it not obvious to cooperate with the Israeli police in such a way. Are you familiar with the project? Isn't cooperation problematic for you? Would you consider following the example of Portugal and withdrawing us from the research project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u22	Mr President, Mr Crusnière and Mr De Vriendt, the LAW-TRAIN project is a project supported by the European Commission in which the federal part is involved for our country. The Belgian State does not finance it. The Federal Prosecutor's Office states that the project is part of the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme, which the European Commission has approved taking into account the guarantees required for ethical aspects and their follow-up. The project runs for 36 months and officially started on 1 May 2015. A full description of the project is given on the website www.law-train.eu. In summary, it can be said that it focuses on the creation of a virtual training tool for police officers from different countries to train in the interrogation of suspects conducted in common specifically in the context of complex and cross-border drug cases and in the Joint Investigation Teams (JIT), joint investigation teams. I take note of your concern about the involvement of an Israeli university and the Israeli government and have informed me of this at the Federal Office. According to the parquet, all project partners work together in accordance with EU rules in this area, and all ethical aspects have been and are strictly monitored by the European Commission. The project concerns the development of a methodology which is not different from the methods of interviews taught in European training centres. The major challenge lies in the virtual and computer-driven nature of the training school aimed at training transnational teams in complex international drug cases. According to the Federal Office, cooperation is therefore not problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u23	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I understand that the ethical aspect is verified and monitored by the European Commission. This does not prevent the need for greater vigilance in this project, such as Portugal, which has taken on its responsibilities. I therefore invite you to follow this file in order to avoid any possible drift.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u24	Minister, I do not think it is obvious. I have no problem with the content of the project; it is a good thing that we work together to strengthen police capacity or harmonise interrogation techniques, among other things. I am talking about the partner with whom we work, namely the Israeli police and security services, which, rightly, are under heavy fire in all kinds of official reports. We have no guarantee whatsoever of what the Israeli police are doing with what we are teaching her. There's no control whatsoever on the Israeli police. She's coming out reinforced. We support her and help her, but we do not know whether this will benefit the behaviour of the Israeli police. We only know that we support her and teach her a number of things. Moreover, the territoriality element is important. I think it weighs. We work with a partner operating in occupied territory. Headquarters are in occupied Palestinian territory. The European Union is very vigilant not to cross that border. The project does not fit in with this philosophy and with the official European and Belgian policies. I would therefore ask you to look at it again and see what steps Portugal has taken to withdraw from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u25	Minister, we were told that some time ago you instructed prisoners to be released with a sentence of less than three years, whether they were in prison or under electronic supervision. You know we don't think this is a good signal. It creates an atmosphere of impunity if not every sentence, however short, is carried out. Apparently, you are putting in that area by whatever was more rule than exception under the previous government. I have some questions about this. We got it from the press. I'd like to know when you gave that instruction. What did she mean in concrete terms? How much reduction was given, and to what kind of convicts? Can you tell me what the ratio was? Was this purely based on savings measures, in line with the measures on Tilburg, on the reduction of cell capacity, etc.? How many prisoners have been released early on the basis of your instruction? Have there been any logistical problems? Lack of enough ankle bracelets? Lack of personnel to ensure follow-up? You name it. How many illegals were released? In the article in De Standaard of 8 September there is a mention of this. Were they all locked up in closed institutions for their expulsion? We know that there is also a lack of capacity there. There too, there are problems. What if those people are from countries with which no agreement has been reached on a possible return? Are the people who are in that case all effectively deported? Will this be the rule in your policy, or is it a temporary measure? If it is a temporary measure, when will you stop doing so? I hope that you do not regard this as a permanent measure and that you will automatically convert a short prison sentence for which alternatives can apply in the future. How many illegals are still in prisons at the moment? What additional measures are you planning, together with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, to speed them up to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u26	Mr President, Minister, better punishment is an important task for this government and for yourself. Several steps have already been taken in this respect. I am thinking, for example, of the anklet as an autonomous punishment to avoid impunity on the one hand and, on the other hand, to carry out penalties under three years. We have had a long prison strike in the French-speaking prisons and at some point you decided to release some of the prisoners with a sentence under three years early, both in Flanders and Wallonia. I have already had this discussion with you about the night-out permissions, but this is something else. I have a few questions about this. There is a slight error in the written record of my question. The correct question is whether at least one third of the sentence, and therefore not half, as stated in the written record of each sentence imposed, is also effectively enforced in Belgium. How many inmates could use the favor regime to get out early as a result of the prison strike? What are the conditions for the detainees to comply with? What further initiatives will you take to improve the execution of the sentence? Finally, not unimportant to our group, the coalition agreement included the circular No. 1816 would be modified or even lifted. What is the state of play? Why has no initiative been taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Pas, Mrs De Wit, I can largely refer to my answer to Question No 2 by Mr De Wit. 12949 by Mrs De Wit, who was discussed in this committee on 6 July 2016. The temporary instruction began on 1 July 2016 and ends on 31 December 2016. This instruction shall ensure that the sentenced persons with sentences up to and including three years are released several weeks to a few months early. Convicts for sexual crimes against minors and convicted of terrorist offences are excluded. For them, the penitentiary administration will examine whether a release is appropriate and, if positive, what conditions should be attached to the release. Convicts who were also made available to the criminal enforcement court in addition to the main sentence shall also be excluded. With these temporary measures, I aim to find a solution to the problems facing the prison system recently and to offer decent detention. Recent problems are as follows. Strikes in prisons that lasted almost two months and ensured that prisoners could not be guaranteed even their basic rights such as visit, shower and walk. In addition, there is a capacity loss in Vorst from 405 to 180 places from the end of October 2016, being a reduction of 225 places, and in Merksplas, due to an uprising, there is a temporary loss of 263 places, of which 112 will soon be available again. In addition, the closure of the Tilburg prison, which is gradual, will reduce 500 cells by the end of 2016. As mentioned above, the measure entered into force on 1 July 2016. Of course, at the beginning, the greatest effect was noticeable. For example, between 1 July and 11 July 2016, 89 convicted persons with Belgian nationality and 98 convicted persons without Belgian nationality were previously released. Of those 98 convicts, 68 were without a right of residence in Belgium. They were made available to the Department of Foreign Affairs for expulsion and repatriation. The 89 Belgians were, for the most part, persons subject to their punishment in the form of electronic surveillance. It is difficult to make a precise prognosis of the number of inmates who will be less on a daily basis in the period up to 31 December. The penitentiary administration estimates this number at 120 to 150 people. There are currently about 3 000 prisoners without a residence permit. They are both persons in remand, convicted and interned, and a small minority of the interned have no right of residence. Since the beginning of this legislature, I have been working with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on the repatriation of illegal convicts. This year we are expected to receive a figure of 1 500 effective repatriations. In 2014 there were about 600. Sometimes the convicts are taken directly from prison to the airport, but in most cases they are first transferred to a closed centre for illegal immigrants. I have adapted the legislation to the expulsion policy. Through the potpourri II Act, it is now possible that those sentenced without a right of residence who were not released early can be repatriated six months before the end of their sentence. Until the amendment of the law, that was only two months and that period was often too short to get the expulsion done administratively and effectively. The potpourri II Act also ensured that convicted persons without the right of residence who, after serving the legally determined part of their sentence, were early exempted by the criminal execution court, with a view to the effective removal of the territory, may no longer return to Belgium, subject to penalty of re-incarceration for the remainder of the staff. In this context, the question was also asked as to what happens to illegal immigrants who come from a country with which no agreements were concluded. With regard to the expulsion of convicted persons who have undergone their sentence or part of it and who are therefore exempted for expulsion, no country may refuse its own nationals. There is sometimes a problem with the identification and determination of nationality. Indeed, there is no agreement with certain countries as regards the taking over of the sentence, of those who are punished in prison in their own country. These people are always serving their sentence in Belgium, after which they can be deported. As far as future punishment is concerned, I would like to give a legal basis for the execution of all penalties, including those under three years. I will propose that the minimum time limit be reduced to half, rather than the current one-third and two-thirds. For certain short-term punishments, I see that they can ask at the beginning of the execution of the sentence to undergo that punishment in the form of electronic surveillance or limited detention. For persons without a right of residence who cannot receive electronic supervision or limited detention, I will propose that they may be exempted for a few months for their time condition, subject to effective repatriation. Details are given in the discussion of the draft law on this subject. In particular, it asked for the lifting of circular No. 1816. That circular of my predecessor stipulated that punishments of up to four months should not be carried out. Previously, that was six months. Well, that circular no longer exists. She was included in my codification letter of 15 July 2015 concerning the release of convicted persons with sentences of up to three years. It is true that I have not changed the non-execution of penalties for up to four months. That will be done in the draft of the new Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your very thorough and detailed reply. I have not recorded all the figures, but I will read them in the report. I am pleased that it was only a temporary measure, until the end of the year, and that it will not be a permanent measure, but I am not entirely reassured. In my view, a wrong principle is still being used to create criminal capacity. On the contrary, we must not let the prisoners wander freely. Just give me the example of the Netherlands, where cell capacity has been increased and where every sentence, however short, has been consistently implemented. The result was that there was a surplus of cell capacity there, not because the criminals were allowed to wander around, but because crime was falling. The less of such measures, circulars and instructions I see pass, the better, because I fear that it will only lead to annoyance with the judges, frustration with the police and joy with the criminals themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u29	Mr Minister, I will, of course, also look closely at the figures. It is clear that you are working with Secretary of State Francken on repatriation, and that is progressing very well. I'm just a little stuck with the fact that the punishment of the short-timers isn't being carried out. That's still a bad signal. I note that you will provide an answer to that. I'm just a little concerned about the direction of the answers. At the moment we are trying to solve a great deal with electronic surveillance, which is still a very nasty piece of information. It remains a system whose capacity is insufficient and whose follow-up is apparently not so obvious. It still has to be a punishment, of course, whether or not it is in another way. I'm a little worried about that, but we're definitely gonna keep following it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u30	Ms Jadin's question is turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to return to committee after this summer, and especially after a certain absence on my part. Mr Minister, at the end of June, you reached an agreement with the mayor of Forest that the prison population in Forest Prison would increase from 388 to 180 prisoners, a decrease of about 200 prisoners. Wing C would be progressively closed in four monthly steps, with October 31 of this year as the deadline. Indeed, the prison chapel may collapse. Who could have thought a chapel could collapse! The water escape tunnel and the cells of this wing have moisture and unsanitary properties that are no longer tolerable; the situation is well known. The prison would no longer be a prison and would therefore no longer house new prisoners. The agreement also provides that access by fire services to the psychiatric annex, in prefabricated prison pavilions, will soon be guaranteed. Of course, this agreement represents a major step forward in terms of the conditions of accommodation and detention of detainees, and also in terms of the quality of the work of the officers. It remains to be ensured that the measures thus announced are properly implemented and whether they are not suspended or subordinated to other aspects which have not been mentioned so far. Therefore, the A and B wings of the prison remain devoid of sanitary facilities and working windows. As a result, the placement of prisoners at the end of their sentences in such cells presents a real risk of riots. As for the psychiatric annex, transferred to the prefabricated prison in Saint-Gilles, it does not appear to be adapted to the needs of prisoners requiring extensive medical and psychiatric follow-up. The date of 31 October therefore seems untenable since it is difficult to see how the narrow cells of this prefabricated unit can by then properly accommodate some 100 people, if my information is correct, and allow them to be treated. Finally, the press does not mention a decision which is subject to debate, that is the least we can say, namely that which is taken to reduce the number of nurses in Forest. Today the nurses in Forest are two in the morning and one in the evening. The agreement would provide for three nurses all day, but this service would only be provided on weekdays. A decision which, it is said, was taken without consultation with medical care personnel, psychiatrists. The administration's argument seems to be that this formula works in the prisons of Leuven and Bruges. However, my attention is drawn to the fact that the situation in Forest is somewhat different with regard to the number of persons detained in the psychiatric annex. This figure is of the order of 100 people for Forest, and would be only 40 to 50 in Leuven and Bruges. A prefabricated product obviously does not have the same working conditions as suitable infrastructure. So, Minister, do you confirm that the closure of the C wing of Forest Prison is final and not temporary, that is, it will be closed only for the necessary work? Can the deadline of October 31 be maintained? When will the population have declined to 344 prisoners? The latest report by DG Prisons, which dates back to 2014, reported an average population in Forest of 600 inmates. I dare believe we're not here anymore. What was the impact of the May and June 2016 strike on the decrease in the prison population? How many penitential leave were granted to inmates in Forest between September 2014 and September 2016 and for what period? How many inmates have benefited from it? Were other inmates transferred to other institutions? I think I know that. If so, how many? What are the long-term consequences for the overcrowding of other institutions that have to accommodate the excess from Forest? How will the psychiatric annex be managed, particularly in terms of medical direction? Will a specific care project be implemented to improve the care of transferred psychiatric detainees? What is the extent of the work to be done to provide fire services with access to the psychiatric annex? When will the necessary fire doors be installed? What is the cost? When will this work be carried out to allow effective access to this annex by emergency services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u32	Mr Minister, I would like to return to June's communication. You said that in the short term you were very anxious to stop using Prince's prison as an arrest house. That is obvious: you can reduce the prison population and also tackle the overpopulation. You had a conversation about that with the mayor of Princess. After all, he threatened to close the prison in view of living conditions and overpopulation. I asked you a question about this at the end of June. You said at that time that the detention house would be phased out and finally closed by the end of October. Sint-Gillis would then take over the post of arrest house and Vorst would again take up the post of criminal house for the Brussels convicts. Only, so that you could make those changes, a number of Saint Gillis prisoners had to be taken to other prisons first. If you could keep wing A and B open in Frost, there would be 180 inmates left. Mr. Secretary, how are we doing with the reduction of the prison population in wing C? How many inmates were there originally and how many are there today? Is the closure of wing C still reached at the end of October? In the meantime, how many prisoners have already been moved from Saint Gillis to other prisons in order to take over prisoners from Prince? What prisons were they moved to? Isn't there a threat of overcrowding in those other prisons? How many prisoners are currently in Prince and Saint Gillis? What is the intended capacity of both prisons when the operation will be completed by the end of October? What impact does that have on the number of employees? Was the number of employees in Vorst also reduced? If so, do you have any figures? In the meantime, has the Brussels prison reform also been discussed with the trade unions? If so, what was the result? Finally, is there any constructive cooperation with the mayor of Vorst on the reorganisation? I refer again to the fact that he threatened to close the prison immediately before the holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u33	Mr. Maingain, Mrs. De Wit, I had an interview last June with the mayor of Forest. During this consultation, we agreed to close the C wing of Forest Prison in phases by the end of October. At present, the population in Frost is less than 250 inmates. That number dropped significantly for the first time due to the closure of wing D in 2015. In July 2016, some fifty prisoners were transferred to several Walloon prisons, mainly to Ittre, Leuze-en-Hainaut, Andenne and Marche-en-Famenne. Those shipments did not impose any additional burden of overpopulation on those establishments. The aim was to reduce the population in Brussels in order to implement the agreement I concluded with the mayor of Prince. The impact of the strike on the decline in the prison population in general and in Brussels in particular has been negligible. At the same time, the classification of Brussels prisons has changed. Since 14 May 2016, the Saint-Gilles prison has become the Brussels prison, which implies that the Forest prison no longer accommodates entry. This facility will function as a house for punishment. Wings A and B will continue to accommodate convicts in an open regime, meaning door opening and thus access to sanitary facilities almost all day. Internees residing in the current psychiatric annex are also transferred to Saint-Gilles prison. In the existing building, they will be replaced by convicts also in a semi-open regime. As a result of this move, work is required to ensure that the wing of Saint-Gilles Prison, which will become the future annex, is adapted to the needs of inmates and inmates in the annex. The work is currently under way and is mainly carried out by the technical team of the Saint-Gilles prison. The prefabricated wing is arranged in consultation with the staff. As far as care is concerned, with the supervision currently working within the psychiatric annex. It should also be noted that the prefabricated wing cells are not particularly narrow and are generally in a better condition than the cells in the current annex. Consultation with the trade union representatives of both prisons was planned on a permanent basis, particularly in the context of the whole process of change. A final view of the composition of the future staffing framework on both sites, of course a key element in that consultation, will only take place after the completion of all initiatives in the fields of work, re-use and reorganisation, which should enable that process to be carried out. With regard to the work to be done and the work we are doing, these are matters that are the responsibility of my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. As regards prison leave, in September 2014 and September 2016, 403 prison leave was granted for all prisons. The number of prisoners who benefited from the scheme is 140 for an average duration of 1.5 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u34	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I would like to come back to you regarding the uniform assessment criteria for the appointment commissions of judicial officers. Indeed, in one of my previous questions, you said that vacant places of judicial officer were published in the Monitor. The appointment commissions will therefore have to deal with the various files that have been submitted in the near future. You added in your reply: "As for the uniform evaluation criteria, a list will soon be fixed by royal decree before being published in the Monitor. This list will therefore be made public." However, I think I know that it is necessary to be 25 years old and 5 years old as a judicial officer candidate, but for the rest, it is blurry. It seems important to me to include in the uniform evaluation criteria, in particular seniority (date of validation of the internship), years of experience and the absence of conviction(s) and punishment(s), whatever it(s) it(s) is. Minister, can you clarify to me the uniform evaluation criteria? What will they be? Do you intend to integrate other data, such as seniority and experience?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u37	Mr President, dear colleague, the list of uniform evaluation criteria, as established by the commissions of appointment of judicial officers, was approved by the Royal Decree of 30 August and published in the Belgian Moniteur of 8 September. Seniority and professional experience in the position are included, but also social skills, organizational capacity, knowledge and vision of the profession. Whether or not there are convictions or sanctions in the candidate's head is covered by requests for opinions under Article 515 § 2 of the Judicial Code to the King's Prosecutor and the District Chamber. That's my answer. I have here a copy of the royal decree and then give it to you if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I would like to have a copy of the royal decree. I have no further comments to make, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on 28 July the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment on the effects on access to justice of VAT on lawyers' fees. This judgment follows several questions referred by our Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation and validity of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of VAT. In particular, the Constitutional Court asked whether the right to a fair trial guaranteed by Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights was effectively upheld by the introduction of VAT on lawyers' fees and expenses. It follows from this introduction, effective since 1 January 2014, that a consumer (an individual) sees the cost of his legal defence increased by 21 % while the opposing party (if he is a taxable person entitled to the deduction) does not have to bear the cost of VAT. In addition, access to the defence provided by the State is limited to a small category of persons, given the limited revenue ceilings for the payment of lawyers' fees and expenses by the State in the context of second-line legal aid. In its judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union replied that VAT was not an insurmountable cost making access to justice virtually impossible or excessively difficult. However, the judgment has the merit of taking a critical look at the legal aid system as it is organised in Belgium. It states that "if the particular circumstances of a particular case imply that the imposition of VAT on the services of lawyers alone creates an insurmountable obstacle to access to justice or renders the exercise of the rights conferred by the legal order of the Union virtually impossible or excessively difficult, it should be taken into account by appropriate adjustment of the right to legal aid". The Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone sees it as a clear signal to the Belgian legislator to review the system of income ceilings giving rise to legal aid. We had this debate during the parliamentary work prior to the adoption of the last law amending the Judicial Code with regard to legal aid, the law of 6 July 2016. If we had been aware of the judgment of the Court of Justice before the adoption of this law, the turn of the parliamentary debate could have been different. The question therefore arises as to whether you are planning, in particular during the preparation of your new policy note for 2017, to take into account this warning, this invitation from the Court of Justice of the European Union or whether you are waiting to hear the final ruling of the Constitutional Court, which has not yet given its opinion – which I might understand. But, in any case, how far would you agree to a further reflection on the revision of the income ceilings that could qualify for second-line legal aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u40	Mr Maingain, in answer to your first question, I can confirm that the income ceilings for second-line legal aid were raised on 1 September to EUR 977.13, EUR 12,054.99 and EUR 1,530.80 for different cases. I refer you to the Royal Decree of 3 August 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 18 December 2003 determining the conditions for the total or partial free of charge of the benefit of second-line legal aid and legal aid, published in the Belgian Moniteur of 10 August 2016 and to the notice of adjustment of the amounts taken in implementation of Article 3 of this Royal Decree, published on 31 August 2016. It goes without saying that in the meantime, I am still working in the right direction with the orders and the insurers towards a better equipped legal insurance for those who do not benefit from free. As for your second question, in the current stage of the procedure, it would be premature to already rule on the follow-up to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 28 July 2016. We therefore await the ruling of the Constitutional Court, before considering whether and to what extent a response is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. The debate on the income ceilings taken into account has already taken place in the context of the revision of these ceilings. You know how much, on the side of the bars in particular, it has been considered that this revision was not sufficiently significant to take account of a number of circumstances, including the one highlighted in the European Union's judgment on this aspect, without waiting for the Constitutional Court's judgment. It can be said, in any case, that there is more than an incentive to reconsider the consequences of the cost of VAT on the care of persons for the intervention of second-line legal aid for the benefit of persons, whose incomes remain relatively low according to the legal criteria for obtaining such legal aid. The debate will certainly continue in the coming months and we will resume it as part of the review of your policy note 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u42	Mr President, on the order of business, you are now at item 22. I am still waiting for questions under points 9 and 10. Do I have to wait here? Will the Members of this House still show up for these joint questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u43	You're right. We are waiting for Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u44	Is she coming? I am prepared to postpone my questions if she so wishes, but I would like to be kept informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u45	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh asks that the questions be postponed, but I cannot, of course, speak for the other Members who have tabled questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u46	Then the questions under point 9 can be perfectly postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u47	Mr President, I have just heard that Mrs Kitir also agrees to postpone the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Vaerenbergh. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Vaerenbergh for his excellent report. 13375 by Mrs Van Cauter, 13383 by Mrs Pas, 13428 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and 13726 by Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u50	There are several of us. We will refer item 8 to the agenda if this is a problem for you. Can we postpone it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u52	Thank you for your solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u53	Mr President, Minister, since the failed coup d'état against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and above all its consequences, the human rights situation in Turkey has reached totally unacceptable levels. Arbitrary arrests of opponents have become legion, there are 50,000 civil servants, academics, military or police officers. Direct or indirect repression has now become the rule in Turkey but also elsewhere on the globe. It was in this context that a Turkish parliamentarian and right-hand man of President Erdogan, Metin Külünk, visited Limburg on 8 September to hang the floor at an event that brought together a thousand people. On this occasion, he allowed himself to "warn" the Belgian authorities against the so-called terrorists and to suggest to the Belgian citizens present on the spot – which is much more serious – to engage at the local level in politics, teaching or associative life, so that they could give "their version". This is clearly a question of interference and incitement to infiltration. Hence, minister, my three questions. Can you reassure me that the State Security is making full use of the provisions of the law of 29 January 2016, initiated by my group and Mr. Van Hecke in particular, since the Turkish government launched its violent witch-hunt in Turkey and elsewhere in the world with regard to everything that, in his view, is not in favour of President Erdogan? Have you therefore instructed the State Security to ensure that the activities of espionage and blackmail of Turkish agents currently under way in our territory are followed seriously and thoroughly? We had already had discussions on this. You reassured me at the time. I ask you to reassure me in this regard today. Finally, has an increase in staff dedicated specifically to these tasks in the Counter Intelligence Operational Section of State Security been envisaged or decided in view of the obvious danger that this interference poses to many Belgian citizens of Turkish origin or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, the detection, centralization and exploitation of intelligence on potential espionage and interference activities is one of the Security's main tasks. In the fight against espionage and interference by foreign powers, fundamental economic, diplomatic and security interests are often at stake. Although before the law of 29 January 2016 on the control of the activities of foreign intelligence services in Belgium, the Sûreté de l'Etat had the task of collecting information on this type of security threat, this law ensures that all kinds of activities carried out by foreign intelligence services on Belgian territory fall into the collimator of the intelligence services. To your question as to whether the State Security uses the provisions of the Act of 29 January 2016, I can answer that it does so on a daily basis. As a counter-espionage service, the Sûreté de l'Etat automatically pays the necessary attention to events on Belgian territory which could possibly be described as problematic. Also, I must not give any further instructions on this. In addition, I have seen that in the follow-up to the events that you refer to, the State Security cooperates closely with various other public services. Together with other bodies, I am regularly informed of the results of its activities. As I had already communicated in this Commission on 11 May, an operational Counter Intelligence section was created within the Security and it brings together all intelligence officers in charge of the surveillance of foreign intelligence services. This centralization of knowledge and expertise makes it possible not to carry out a special extension of staff within the counter-intelligence activities of the security service. However, the Act of 29 January 2016 expanded the scope of this section to a significant extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. Today, therefore, hundreds of Belgian citizens of Turkish origin are under surveillance, at least, or, at the most, pressure from the Turkish authorities directly or indirectly. It is therefore normal for our police services and the State Security to be able to control exactly what these Turkish agents are doing on our territory at this somewhat troubled time. The stakes are those of the staff. There is a need for sufficient staff to be able to verify what is happening in the field. In the delicate context of terrorist attacks, there are priorities, but here we are talking about an extremely serious matter, the freedom of expression and the freedom of association of Belgian citizens, which must be absolutely guaranteed since this is guaranteed in our Constitution. Thank you for reassuring us about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u56	Mr President, Minister, when you hear the title, you will probably think that I should ask this question in Flanders. However, you also know that it is all inextricably linked. In your criminal execution policy, you want to make electronic supervision increasingly important or give more tasks. We know the anklet as an autonomous punishment. But in the end, you are dependent on the Communities for their implementation, as the justice houses have been regionalised since the sixth state reform. At the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision, there have been a lot of problems over the past year concerning staff shortages, which has reduced the use of ankle straps rather than increasing them. A year ago, there were 1 200 in circulation. This was then reduced to a maximum of 900 due to staff shortages and ministerial measures following the long prison strike in the spring. Inmates with less than three years' imprisonment were released from prison more quickly or came to ET. At some point, the number of ankle tyres in use fell even to 695. That is much lower than what was originally intended. A year ago it was said that this would only be temporarily reduced to 900. Today, however, that number has still not risen and we are left with this limitation because we simply have too few staff to monitor the behaviour of the ankle-band carriers, which is of course very important, and to prepare the dossiers. After all, that requires a lot of energy. Hence my questions, Minister. I know that this has become Flemish matter, but since this is crucial for your criminal policy, I would like to ask you if you have consulted your colleague in Flanders to raise this issue. If so, what measures are being taken now? For you, this is the final part of a policy, and that is where it is actually stuck. Do you have any idea when one is planning to have the full 1 200 anklet in circulation in Flanders again? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u57	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, as you rightly point out, the Courthouses responsible for carrying out electronic supervision fall within the competence of the Communities. As a federal minister, therefore, I do not have a direct say in this matter. I do, however, have regular contacts with the relevant ministers of the various Länder in the context of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Justice Houses, including on electronic monitoring in Flanders. From my contacts I heard the following. A number of measures were taken within the Justice Houses department in Flanders, under the responsibility of the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision, in order to gradually reduce the daily population in Flanders to the level of the past and to structurally eliminate the resulting waiting lists. An increase in the number of slots for electronic surveillance via an anklet box has been achieved so that 144 activations per month can be done. The increase in the number of slots for home detention via electronic voice recognition was also increased to 30 instead of 10 per week. In this way, 240 additional slots could be opened for the next six months by mid-August. In concrete terms, these measures mean that 88 more people can be placed under surveillance per month. As a result, the daily population will rise again and the waiting list can be reduced. I am assured that the impact of these measures will be strictly monitored, so that timely adjustment is immediately possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that measures have been taken. At the beginning of September, however, the services have made it clear that for the time being it will never be more than 900 ankle straps, if that number is already reached. We must be aware of this when we decide on further measures. We must ensure that these measures are also practicable in practice. So our decisions must not become hollow decisions. This matter is certainly still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u59	Mrs De Wit, the next item on the agenda is your question No. 13689 together with Question No 13673 by Mrs Van Cauter. Would you like to postpone your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u60	(...) She didn't ask me anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u61	It's your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u62	I will postpone that question and come back to it next week. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u63	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u64	Mr President, is it true that, according to the rules, a question can only be postponed once?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u65	Yeah, that's a proposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u66	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u67	I do not know exactly whether I will be able to come and ask oral questions next week. In that case, my question would no longer be on the agenda, and that is why I choose to put it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I think this is a very interesting subject. I asked you another question in July about the witness hearing in homicide cases that have now been corrected. The great thing about the assists procedure was that all the witnesses were called up and questioned. I admit it was often too many. However, there were a lot of essential testimonies, which made the debates in assist cases very interesting. There is no such tradition and habit in the area of correction. Witnesses are much less likely to be dealt with there. That's why a lot of lawyers called the alarm bell. This point was also raised during the discussion of Potpourri Il Act. The court has to organize itself and people can ask. It is currently in the Code of Criminal Procedure. One has to judge in all reasonable terms, but in practice it appears that very few correct judges respond effectively to these requests. It's not actually happening. They only ask for it to be limited, yet it is not allowed. That's why some lawyers called the alarm. You replied to me at that time that it was about the courts of appeal, that they knew the file and all the witnesses' statements, and that you had the utmost confidence in them. I have that confidence, too. That's not the point, but suddenly another player comes on the field, because the ECHR condemned Belgium because we don't have enough witnesses' interviews. It is possible but it is actually systematically refused in Belgium, so eventually lawyers often stop making the effort to ask for witnesses. Apparently, it is thought that this is mainly to prolong the situation. I am not going to judge that, in some cases it may be true but not in others. However, Minister, I am convinced that in some cases a hearing of witnesses is essential, especially if a given testimony is the whole basis of a trial. The condemnation of the ECHR is perhaps a turning point, especially now that we are dealing with the potpourri law and the correctional process which is much more extensive than before. I come to my specific question. How do you assess that arrest? As part of the potpourri law, we discussed whether there should be an obligation somewhere to hear at least some people. We have put our trust in those courts. Will you now take initiatives to allow the interview at least of key witnesses or certain experts to become more effective in our correctional courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u69	Mrs De Wit, like the College of the Attorney General, I believe that it is too early to draw conclusions on hearing witnesses in cases currently being dealt with in the courts and previously by the Court of Assists. Since March 2016, few such cases have been dealt with by the correctional chambers. In most cases, an introductory session was planned and conclusions were then determined, so that the first cases on the substance will only be dealt with and decided in autumn 2016. As you know, all parties, including the defendant, may call witnesses under Articles 153 and 190 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The judge may also request the prosecution to summon or subpoena certain witnesses. In the present system of free proof, it is the judge who finally decides whether hearing the witness is useful for the truth finding. However, it seems logical that, in disputed cases, witnesses are called by both the prosecution and the defense to review their statements at the hearing and that experts are asked to present their reports to medical, ballistic, DNA, psychiatrist, toxicologist. There is therefore no legal obstacle preventing the parties from summoning the witnesses they consider necessary for the discovery of the truth or in support of their position in such corrected files. With regard to Belgium's conviction by the European Court of Human Rights for not hearing key witnesses, I assume that reference is made to the judgment in the Riahi case. The case did not, however, concern any matter which would have been dealt with before the entry into force of potpourri II in a court of assistants. In the case of the correct cases, this situation existed before the reform of potpourri II. Nor did the European Court condemn Belgium because there are too few interviews of witnesses in Belgium. Such a generalisation does not correspond to the scope of the judgment. On the other hand, the Court ruled that Mr Riahí's right to a fair trial was infringed by the fact that the entire charge was based on the statements of one witness. However, the defence's request to call them for a hearing of witnesses was rejected. In addition, the appeal court motivated its conviction solely on the basis of an analysis of the witness's statements made to the police and confirmed in a detailed, precise and nuanced manner during the hearing by the investigating judge. In so doing, the European Court notes that the Court of Appeal has not relied on an obstacle on the part of the witness to make a statement at the hearing, nor that the Court of Appeal has cited a factual, procedural or legal reason which could prevent the hearing of the witness. The European Court therefore concludes that the statements to the police and the examination by the investigating judge alone cannot compensate for the absence of the witness hearing and that, in other words, Mr Riahi has not been able to defend himself sufficiently. However, I am still sensitive to the argument that the handling of heavy and criminal cases by the courts of the Member States provides the necessary basic safeguards for fair trial, including the hearing of witnesses and experts at the hearing, where necessary, in order to ensure a fair trial. In this respect, I have still not forgotten that I promised you that we would proceed to an evaluation of the potpourri II Act over time. In that sense, the Riahi judgment is indeed important, since it indicates that the evidence must be conducted more carefully and, in some cases, more contradictory than in the present case. This will be an important point of attention for the committee of experts dealing with the reform of criminal proceedings. Finally, and as I said earlier in dealing with the potpourri II Act, I think it is appropriate that, in the long term, the most important facts should be dealt with in a specialised criminal chamber of the Court of First Instance, where procedural safeguards can be provided for. This evolution will be addressed in the context of the forthcoming reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I hope that our experts will be able to report on this to the Justice Commission on 7 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Especially the last part is important, but you already knew that. I believe I have already made a plea for a criminal chamber with special guarantees. That seems essential to me because it concerns special matters. I still remember very well the hearings, where assistant counsellor John Maes said that the child should not be thrown away with the bath water. The oral debate and certain other matters are essential. These are matters that are literally of fundamental importance to many people, both to victims and to perpetrators. I think it is very important to have that debate on the ground, without falling into an assistive process. There are supporters and opponents for the assists process. I certainly wasn't an opponent of assists, because I've seen the beauty of that procedure. However, it would be good if, in such cases, at least part of the substance of that procedure could be retained at the correctional level, while at the same time everything could be more efficient. I'm really looking forward to the experts' report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u71	Mr President, is the partnership protocol for digital justice concluded with the professional organisations of lawyers, notaries and judicial officers the result of a negotiation between the SPF and the professional organisations of the actors of the justice? What are the concrete commitments made by each of the parties to this protocol? Has an evaluation of this cooperation protocol been planned? What is the deadline? How will this cooperation protocol be implemented? Finally, what are the projects included in this cooperation protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u72	Mr President, this protocol was established on my initiative and in consultation with the various signatories and serves as the basis for cooperation in the field of TCI. The basic principles of the protocol are to allow for extensive computerization of the justice system and to provide the best possible support to the parties responsible for technical development. The protocol sets out six lines of force which are essential for such cooperation. For example, it provides for a half-yearly plenary meeting at which cooperation is assessed. The aim of this consultation is to monitor the progress and management of each project, but also to enable the parties concerned to indicate their possible concerns. As required, additional meetings will be organized. The Protocol also provides for consultations in the preparation of legislative and regulatory initiatives which have an impact on one or more of the signatories. The cultural change required by digitized and more efficient Justice is only possible if users are properly informed and trained. The Protocol provides that the signatory parties shall assume responsibility, each for its own basis, for the dissemination of information and for such training. They also agree to make available to each other the necessary tools for the training of the users belonging to the different parties, but also to make them available to the Judicial Training Institute, so that the Institute can, for its part, provide initial and subsequent training to members of the judiciary who will be important users of most applications. In order to make the use of the various applications as simple and efficient as possible, it is planned for each project to make possible the connection with the existing computer and central platforms of the different signatory parties. However, it is not excluded that temporary solutions should be used, in a temporary phase and with the necessary security guarantees, so that users can benefit as quickly as possible from the benefits of the applications and databases already created. The guideline for funding the various computerization projects provides that when the Act assigns the creation and management of a computer platform or service to one of the partners, the Minister of Justice and the FPS Justice ensure, within their jurisdiction, that a funding model is provided. The partners are expected to be financially transparent so that a correct calculation can be made. Finally, the protocol lists a number of projects which, as the case may be, are already in the development stage or will be launched in the near future. All of these projects will operate or be implemented on the basis of the guidelines set out in the Protocol. Indeed, each signatory party will apply the principles to the best of its possibilities, in order to achieve the computerization of justice in an optimal manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u73	Minister, thank you very much for your encouraging answers, which show how well the shared will to see successful computerization is on track this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic492x.u74	The following points were deferred:- Questions Nos 13152 and 13155 by Mr Pivin, - No. 13157 of Mr Flahaux, - point 13301 of Mrs Jadin, - the attached questions No 13320 by Mrs Jadin, Nos 13351 and 13352 by Mr Goffin, No 13708 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, No 13713 by Mrs Ben Hamou and No 13577 by Mr Maingain, - the attached questions Nos 13336 by Mrs Pas and 13429 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, - the attached questions Nos 13375 by Mrs Van Cauter, 13383 by Mrs Pas, 13428 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and 13726 by Mrs Kitir, - Question No 13604 by Mr Vanvelthoven, - Question No 13681 by Mr Ducrame, - Question No 13709 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. I have no news of Mrs Özen on Question No 13717.
