ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u2	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u3	Monsieur le President, Chers Collègues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want a better future, more secure and more prosperous. For two years we have been working hard to modernise our country, to better prepare it for the challenges we face. The EUR 8 billion tax shift, the reduction in the employer's contribution from 33% to 25%, the increased support for SMEs and the reform of pensions and health care are some of the decisions that we have already taken and which bear fruit. Exports are rising, investment is falling, fiscal and parafiscal pressures are falling, employment is increasing, and these are good results, but they are obviously not enough. The announcements at Caterpillar and ING have brutally reminded us of our responsibility, of the duty to fight for every employee, for every job, for every family. We will continue the complex task of rehabilitation. If the deficit is not eliminated, the debt will rise, each euro to repay the debt is a euro lost for purchasing power, public services or to ensure solidarity. More efficiency to create jobs and more equity in the tax field, these two objectives go hand in hand, even more so, they need to strengthen each other because they are the weakest who pay the price first when jobs go down. The global macroeconomic outlook for 2017 is moderate. However, global economic activity should slowly regenerate. Our economy has progressed more than expected this year and should reach 1.4 percent of GDP in 2016. The Federal Planning Bureau has adjusted the estimates to 1.2 % for 2017 and the IMF expects a growth of 1.4 %. The National Bank expects the creation of 140 000 new jobs by 2018. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, negative impacts are to be feared as a result of the vote on Brexit, and our country, as you know, is particularly concerned. Our economy is very open to Europe and the world. In 2016, Belgian exports were boosted by the drop in labour costs and, for the first time in ten years, our trade balance is emerging from the red: exports increased by 5.4% and imports increased by 3.2%. However, as we know, the pace of exports could be slowed in 2017 due to the slowdown in the European economy. This means that we will need to redouble our efforts in our strategy to continue attracting additional investors. Without taking into account the exceptional operations of previous years, the volume of business investment grew by 6.2% this year. This is, of course, due to relatively low interest rates, but also to greater corporate confidence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost two years ago we launched our programme for a stronger future. We did that because it's necessary. Popular measures are easy to take, especially if the bill is passed on, but we do not want to make that choice. Our trade balance is positive for the first time in ten years, business confidence has grown and, according to the OECD, Belgium is one of the countries that has implemented the biggest fiscal reform in 2015. So the basis has been laid: we are keeping our course, our budget is in order, we are implementing structural reforms and we have a pact for the future with strategic investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this Friday, as you know, the government closed the 2016 and 2017 budgets and has also validated many structural reforms. Our European commitments are being respected. The government will therefore pursue the structural balance improvement targets set at 1.2% of GDP for the 2016-17 period and thus choose to keep the return to balance possible in 2018. This commitment involves a budgetary effort of EUR 3 billion and we are cautious, since we have included a buffer of EUR 739 million. The main aim is to take account of the evolution of tax revenues. We also took time to ensure careful, precise, line-by-line, taboo-free monitoring of the decisions that had been taken. This exercise enabled us to identify €1.2 billion in addition to which, for €1.8 billion, additional measures had to be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have made choices, choices that are consistent. We have decided not to introduce taxes on consumption, no additional VAT, no additional excise duties, no taxes on workers, no restrictions on unemployment benefits, no change in the indexation mechanism. In this way, we will pursue consistent support for purchasing power, support for lower labour costs, tax shift is confirmed. By 2019, 140 net euros per month more for low income. It is a decision that creates the difference in the daily lives of many families. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Ladies and gentlemen, 100 % of the new tax revenue is for income on capital or environmental taxation, EUR 600 million. The household allowance will increase from 27 per cent to 30 per cent. The grant tax is doubled and extended. Internal gains will be taxed and the tax reform on the fuel card will be coupled with free choice for mobility, either other modes of travel or net wages. Colleagues, exactly two years ago, in this same forum, on behalf of the government that was settling down, we made a commitment not to increase the tax burden. In fact, today, two years later, we are doing better than expected. The tax and parafiscal burden on labour has decreased by 3.4 billion euros; 3.4 billion euros mobilised for employment, mobilized for growth, mobilised for economic recovery! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] We have also chosen to initiate the dynamics of structural reforms. More than 200 pieces of legislation have been submitted to parliament to reform our country in depth. The world is changing with unprecedented speed. We need to adapt our economic and social model, create and grow businesses, invent new solutions, innovate and ensure strong social protections. We have assets. I observe it with you: we are successful. Audi invests 600 million in Brussels. In Louvain-la-Neuve, IBA announced the recruitment of an additional 400 people. Pfizer has just opened its European logistics centre in Zaventem. Agoria announced a few days ago the concrete creation of 3,000 new jobs and forecasts an additional 10,000 by 2020. The unemployment rate has been at the lowest in a quarter of a century. However, despite the additional 70,000 jobs that have been created, the employment rate is stagnating because many young people are entering the labour market. For this reason, we are launching the reform of starter jobs in order to encourage youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to take this opportunity to announce, on behalf of the government, the launch of this strategic reform for the future. Firstly, the modernisation of the labour market. Secondly, the reform of the 1996 law on competitiveness and wage formation. Thirdly, the e-commerce law and the digital agenda. Fourthly, the establishment of a "mobility" free choice. Fifthly, pension reform. Sixthly, the reform of health care and the unavailability and disability systems, and seventhly, the stimulation of investment and the guarantee of tax fairness. Through these seven strategic reforms, we are undertaking and amplifying reforms for employment and social cohesion. I would like to take a moment to present to you the direction and content of these reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, the modernisation of the labour market must allow people to better reconcile work and private life. It is also an opportunity to use new technologies better. The social partners remain a very important point of contact in order to achieve this reform, but the objective is clear: new work systems should give greater freedom to employers and workers. The 38-hour week continues to exist but is now calculated on an annual basis. So anyone who claims that everyone suddenly has to work 45 hours a week, distorts, to remain diplomatic, the truth. Annualisation must be activated at enterprise level and at sectoral level, and employees will also be given the option of spending a maximum of 100 voluntary overtime. These hours are paid immediately with an overwage allowance. Training within companies has a lot of added value. That is why we are strengthening the framework there to encourage training. For unexpected moments, such as a doctor's visit or an appointment at school, employees now have to take leave, but by making occasional telework possible, we give employees more freedom again. The sliding working hours also fit in this context. The employee himself can determine the beginning and end of his/her performance. We also ensure that the work system becomes less rigid. The obligation to include all timetables in the working regulations is deleted. This is an important administrative simplification. This is therefore a balanced agreement in the interests of companies and workers, and this will create jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] The second reform is the 1996 law. Over the last two years, we have managed to eliminate the pay handicap. But now we must also ensure that labour costs do not rise again in relation to our neighbouring countries. The 1996 Law is therefore amended. The indexation and palliative increase in wages, as today, remain guaranteed. However, the law is amended on the basis of the two-yearly determination of the wage standard by the social partners or by the government. The historical wage handicap established by the Central Council for Business is also considered. The third reform concerns the digital agenda and e-commerce. We can, that is the conviction, create tens of thousands of new jobs in the digital sectors, but that is only possible if we adapt quickly. Our country wants to be a pioneer in this respect. We are the first European country to give electronic documents the same value as paper documents. We have created a tax shelter for young entrepreneurs, but we cannot wait in e-commerce. That is why we want to amend the legal framework for night work. The online trade is in the elevator, so now is the time. We want to give our e-commerce companies equal weapons in competition with our neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy transition and COP21 lead us to adapt our mobility strategy. We have therefore decided to initiate tax reform on the fuel card for employers. We also want to introduce free choice for workers: a company car, another mode of travel or additional net wages. It is not for us to penalise the use of the car, but to encourage the possibility of using other modes of travel. Working to prepare for the future, to pursue structural reforms, is also to launch the strategy for pension reform. The reforms of our pension system allow for an overall savings of €1.5 billion by 2020. Thus, we guarantee future generations the payment of pensions. The main aim of the measures is, first and foremost, to extend the average length of careers and, secondly, to preserve the purchasing power of pensioners. We are going to raise it, for example, by revaluing the lowest pensions or by reducing the solidarity contribution from pensions. By allowing all salaried workers to voluntarily set up an additional pension, we will also generalize the second pillar of the pension. Finally, the government will set out, as it has undertaken, budget allocations that will allow for the inclusion of the hardship of certain occupations in the determination of pension rights. Health is a precious asset. Our health care system is among the best in the world and we want to ensure access to quality health care for all. In this spirit, we have validated the "Pharma" Pact. We are continuing to reform hospital funding in consultation with the sector. We also note, for example, that the number of long-term patients has increased by 64% in ten years to peak at the end of 2015, at 370,000 people who have been absent for more than one year. That is why a reform aimed at promoting accountability and reintegration will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, another crucial challenge is to link economic efficiency and fiscal justice. We are in the process of examining the proposals put forward by the Minister for Finance with a view to reforming corporate taxation. Our goal is to increase the attractiveness of our country, to better support SMEs and to create jobs. We want to strengthen legal certainty, legal stability and fiscal justice. We will also examine proposals to reconcile economic efficiency and fiscal justice. For example, we will look at the opportunity to implement measures that promote investment mainly in the medium term, in relation to SME debt instruments, the digital agenda and start-ups. We will also examine the proposals on the taxation of shares, including added value. On the basis of analyses and simulations, proposals on these issues will be submitted to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely everyone must contribute to the financing of solidarity. Together with the sectors concerned, we want to act against social dumping. We do not want to accept unfair competition or the decline in social rules. We have, for example, adapted the law on public procurement. We strongly support European initiatives to adapt the Detachment Directive. To be concrete, in 2015, the action plan to combat social fraud and social dumping brought in €180 million. It's a record. We also want to act against tax fraud: almost 100 agents have been recruited from the ISI. This represents an additional 25 per cent of staff. Concrete measures are being taken. We continue to act. The results are here: in 16 months, an additional EUR 448 million was actually collected. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to our budget and structural reforms, an investment strategy is essential. Not investing is for a country, as for a company, impoverishing and building a hidden debt for the next generations. I launched a project with the government for a strategic pact. It is a project that identifies the different sectors, respecting the competences of each level. Mobility, energy transition, digital agenda are some priorities. We also want to appoint a strategic committee with academic, economic and financial experts. This is a plan to be implemented between now and 2030. I am also counting on the support of non-political personalities who can play a role in the deployment of the strategy. It is my intention to quickly identify the projects involved and the funding possibilities, and I hope that positive cooperation with Parliament will be possible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am continuing with a commitment that was made at the time of the formation of the government. As regards ARCO, the Government Agreement on the establishment of an effective scheme for partial compensation of natural persons-co-operatives of recognised financial cooperatives is confirmed. [[Rumor]] A plan of action will be drawn up at the initiative of the Minister for Finance. A task force will be set up to accompany the development of the scheme. Operational implementation will be launched in 2017. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is perhaps one of the best places in the world to be free. Free to love. Free to criticize. Free to believe or not to believe. Free to disagree or do politics. And yet this year our democracy has been hit by tragic attacks. Today I want to pay tribute once again to the victims, including our policemen, our security and intelligence services, our soldiers in the streets or abroad. Thanks to them for guaranteeing our security and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, in Brussels and Zaventem, we have been shaken in our certainty, and we must live up to those who have been dramatically struck by this tragedy. To be up to date is to mobilize additional resources for intelligence and security services. In two years, an additional €640 million has been made available to strengthen security. In total, more than 1,000 additional staff will be recruited before the end of the legislature to strengthen services, and 30 measures have been taken. For example, searches are possible 24 hours a day for terrorism; telephone taps have also been expanded in this context. As I have said on several occasions in this rostrum, we will always ensure that the balance between the right to security and respect for the rule of law is respected. We are aware of the difficulties before us, and we are acting. The Canal Plan has been decided and 485 additional officers have come to strengthen the police services in seven communes. The additional judicial staff complement the scheme. The first results were that 600 people had been removed from national registers and 57 persons considered dangerous had been arrested. Ladies and gentlemen, our work on safety is not finished. The legislation on surveillance cameras is being amended. Security services are also being reformed in order to be able to operate more efficiently. Reforming the core tasks of the police remains an absolute priority for us. We have also pursued a voluntaristic policy in the field of computerisation of our judicial system. The five potpourri laws adopted have led to a huge improvement in civil and criminal proceedings. Lawsuits are dealt with more quickly and the workload of the court is eased. Almost EUR 100 million was made available for investment and recruitment. New vacancies for 455 magistrates and more than 1 100 members of the judicial staff were announced to the court. Legal aid was also reformed to give better access and to prevent useless appeals. We are also fully engaged in the analysis of the prison master plan. The government and the minister want to reduce the overpopulation and renovate the infrastructure. The results are there: this year 1 200 people are already less in our prisons than last year. In the field of energy, we need to develop a long-term vision. We need to build greater independence. An effective energy mix must be the goal: cheap electricity, both for consumers and for businesses. The government is also preparing the core step, not only on waste management, but also through the implementation of a 2030 national energy climate plan. Sustainable mobility is a constant exercise. Public transport must be more efficient and coherent. We are continuing the reform of SNCB with one goal: to optimise customer friendliness and safety. Ladies and gentlemen, our borders are the European external borders. Last year our country showed great solidarity, but now the trend has turned. In 2016 there were an average of 3 700 applications per month, but now we are at 1 500 per month. The government has worked hard on a strong return policy. This year we have more than 4 000 repatriations. The expulsion of illegal criminals is one of the absolute spearheads. Last year, more than 1 400 criminals were sent back, which is twice as much as in 2014. We are united with those who need it and hard for those who abuse it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has for several years been confronted with an addition of tremors. War and instability south of our external borders, in Syria, Iraq and Libya, have paved the way for unprecedented migratory pressure. The pressure also linked to terrorist attacks on European soil increases anxiety and uncertainty. The relationship with Russia raises questions, doubts for the future. Finally, more recently, the British vote in favour of Brexit is indicative of a form of scepticism about the future of Europe. And yet, this European ideal has long resonated as an obvious one. At the Bratislava Summit, a necessary and fragile process of relaunching the European project was initiated and we intend to play an active role in trying to bring the European project closer to the direct concerns of the citizens. Belgium wants to be a loyal and reliable partner, realistically and with no naivety, in the United Nations concert or, for example, in NATO. We choose to be responsible and supportive. In this spirit, for example, we have introduced our candidacy for a non-permanent seat at the UN Security Council 2019-2020 and we also want to give our Defence a short, medium and long-term future. That's the meaning of strategic vision. We will comply with the commitments made in Poland at the last NATO Summit and we have already begun the consideration of the military programming bill in the Council of Ministers for some time now. Recently, the African note was submitted to Parliament. It marks our strategy for this neighbouring continent that binds us through history as well as for the future. The strategic objectives for sustainable development are a cardinal line in our strategy for development cooperation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to present to you the state of our country, to identify the successes and also to recognise the weaknesses that must be corrected. I have also tried to highlight the strategic reforms that are necessary to build confidence, to return to the hope of a stronger future. In the coming days, as I had committed myself to it, I will meet with the social partners to explain our decisions and give every chance to the consultation, to the social peace that we care about. Like you, like all of us, I understand that our fellow citizens are often confronted with tedious concerns: the fear of losing their job or not getting a job, the fear of bills at the end of the month, but also the fear of terrorism or insecurity. I would like to note with you that 21% of the Belgian population – one in five Belgians – is at risk of falling into poverty. No one here, regardless of the bench on which we are located, can be indifferent to this observation. It is precisely for this reason that we are extremely determined to succeed in economic recovery and social cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u4	Breaking poverty is not a gesture of charity, it is an act of justice. It is about protecting fundamental human rights, the right to live in dignity, free and decent. These are the words of Nelson Mandela and that is also the meaning of our action. Because economic progress, job creation and social justice are in our eyes intimately linked. We are acting to produce effects. We don't just manage the country every week, we don't just align "copied-paste" budgets one after the other. We want to put our action in a vision of the future that we want to make better, stronger, for our citizens: to get a job, to educate their children, to study, to care for themselves and to feel protected by the authority of the State. Our reforms – I believe – are bearing fruit. We will build on this momentum, amplify the positive results. More incentives for work, more support for the initiative, more incentives for SMEs, more justice, more tax and social equity, more innovation, more creativity, these are the lines of strength of the project that we want to achieve: optimism without naivety, trust without illusion. More than ever, we know that our country's best asset is its citizens, their inventiveness, their generosity, their desire to look the future straight into the eyes. That is why we want a better, stronger, more prosperous, more optimistic future. As Saint-Exupéry said, it is not a matter of planning the future, but of making it possible. Making a more optimistic future possible: it is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is asking for your confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has given me a motion of confidence. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the confidence of the Chamber'. Colleagues, the Prime Minister has just given me a motion of confidence, which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that the government's statement be discussed in plenary, Monday from 10.15 a.m. and Tuesday at 2 p.m. on the motion of confidence. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents today, I propose that we meet in plenary for the discussion of the government statement tomorrow from 10.15 a.m. and Tuesday at 2 p.m. for the vote on the motion of confidence. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u7	Colleagues, I have received an order motion from Mrs Wouters and Mr Vuye with the following questions: "How many members of staff or members of external corps have been called to this session today? What is the cost of this extra session on Sunday?" I must say that, strictly speaking, these questions have nothing to do with the order of business. I could therefore, in fact, declare that motion inadmissible. However, Mr Vuye and Mr Wouters, I suggest that you give me the time to collect this information as soon as possible and to deliver it to you. Is that okay? [[Assent]] Thank you very much, Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly. Two agreements were reached at the Conference of Presidents. Firstly, the Prime Minister's speech would be distributed as usual. In the meantime, we have received them in our mailbox, for which we are grateful. Secondly, the budgetary basis of these fine words would also be distributed. However, that has not yet happened. There's a table circulating... [[Rumor]] Mr Verherstraeten, it is important for us as an opposition to know how much savings are being made for people who are struggling, and how much is being made for the greatest abilities. So, Mr President, I would ask you to carry out the agreement we have just made. This will enable us to have a good debate on the future of this country tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u9	Prime Minister, I assume that the agreements will be respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u10	Mr President, as we committed ourselves to it, we will table the statement I have just made; as well as the table mentioned by Mr Calvo, on the basis of which the 2016 and 2017 budgets have been validated. At the same time, we are transmitting the documents to Europe, as we have committed ourselves to it, and at the same time, Parliament will receive the full budget documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-16-54-plenair-ip131x.u11	Then we can close the hearing. The debate will begin tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Monday, 17 October 2016 at 10.15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Monday 17 October 2016 at 10.15 a.m.
