ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, the European Commission has announced that it has reached a pre-agreement with the United States on the Privacy Shield, which allows private companies to transfer personal data from one continent to another. This agreement was published a few days ago by the European Commission. This text replaces the Safe Harbor invalidated by the Court of Justice, which considered that the rights of European citizens were not sufficiently protected there. However, voices have already been heard to express severe criticism of this agreement. Notably because the biggest fault of Safe Harbor, which did not adequately protect against the intrusion of US surveillance agencies, is not addressed by the project. More generally, critics believe that the new draft does not respond to the invalidation judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The opinion of the G-29, which brings together all the European privacy committees, is expected in mid-April, followed by a vote by the European Parliament. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, let me ask you the following questions. What is your opinion on the draft agreement concluded by the European Commission? Why does this project not address the issue of access to data by US surveillance agencies? Do you consider that the differences with respect to Safe Harbor are sufficient, particularly in view of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Has Belgium been involved in these negotiations? If so, how? What were his demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u2	Mrs Özen, the agreement on Privacy Shield between the European Commission and the United States is already in February. The aim of this agreement was clearly to find a solution to the legal uncertainty generated by the Schrems judgment. We have already looked at the text negotiated by the European Commission. It presents interesting and specific points: the strengthening of the rights of the persons concerned, the clarification of the retention period, or the creation of an independent Ombudsman who could receive complaints and requests from every European citizen. These are very important elements. We note that there is also a binding arbitration mechanism, as well as an annual joint review mechanism for the Privacy Shield, which allows us to examine how it is applied in the various sectors. Yet a series of questions persist. These have been put to the European Commission in order to clarify matters. There are still shadows about the appointment and guarantee of independence of ombudsmen, or the need to implement a good link with the European Data Protection Regulation (adopted a few weeks ago). Finally, it would be good to obtain clarification on the place of data protection authorities in the joint annual review. In the end, how will the various agencies and authorities be involved in this process? The Article 29 Working Group has already delivered an opinion which fully confirms the existence of these shadow zones. With regard to your second question on access to data by US surveillance agencies, I believe that the Privacy Shield agreement provides for a range of considerations that provide safeguards on the use of data for national security purposes. In Europe, we have a slightly different opinion from that of the United States on the management and obtaining of these data. However, I believe that there are many instruments in the United States with regard to national security: the presidential directives and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which provides for the collection of data for specified purposes and considered legitimate. However, we must be vigilant. Access to data by U.S. public authorities is one of the issues discussed by the European Commission with the delegation. The current Privacy Shield agreement could therefore evolve on these points. Significant improvements have been made to the Safe Harbour. The original idea was to renegotiate in such a way that it could be brought before a court of law. Here I hope that the European Commission which has conducted the negotiations with the United States will inform the various Member States via the Committee 31. It was within this committee that the Belgian points of attention were relayed and discussed. The European Commission is shortly to convene a meeting to report on progress on Member States' points of attention. Finally, I would like to inform you that during the negotiations, my predecessor had several contacts with the European Commissioner, Mr Jourová. When I was a Member of the European Parliament, I also had several contacts with her during the negotiation. We have therefore pointed out the Belgian priorities on this issue and, more specifically, a quick resolution of legal uncertainty. But there must also be a clear and effective consideration of the protection of privacy and personal data. These points have been particularly highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u3	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, for the past few months, French press publishers have prevented Internet users who block advertising via adapted software from having access to their website. In a letter in response to a question from a UK privacy activist, the European Commission suggests that the detection of adblocks (name of these advertising detectors) by website publishers is illegal. Indeed, the Commission confirms that the scripts inserted by publishers in their web pages to detect blockers of advertisements must comply with the Directive called privacy and electronic communications, and in particular Article 5.3 thereof, which states that: "Member States shall ensure that the use of electronic communications networks for the purpose of storing information or, I insist, access to information stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user is permitted only if the subscriber or user is provided with clear and complete information." Recital 24 of the same directive states: "any information stored on equipment is a matter for the privacy of the user." The use of an advertising blocking system is undoubtedly such information. The websites in question use a script that would detect if the visitor activated an ad blocker. Thus, when an adblock user tries to access these websites, the following message appears: "We noticed that you are using an ad blocker." This type of script, because it is intended to obtain private information from the internet browser, would be prohibited without the user's prior consent. Did your services find out about similar practices on Belgian websites? Do you agree with the European Commission's reading of the illegality of the ban on access for Internet users using advertising blockers? Does Belgium intend to take preventive measures to encourage website publishers not to take the visible illegal path of their French counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u5	Internet users can install software to block advertisements on certain websites. IT developers have created new software that identifies Internet users who use ad blocking software. When this anti-advertising software is identified, the website gives the choice to leave this website or to give up blocking advertising. Most of the websites that operate in this way are free-of-access online press sites. It is not easy to demonstrate that this software accesses information stored on the user's terminal equipment. You referred to Article 5.3 of the directive. I think it is necessary to interpret it. This article was adopted to prevent cookies and other spyware from entering computers. The recitals in this directive give a very broad interpretation to this article. The European Commission considers that the presence of an advertising blocking system is information stored in the user's terminal equipment and that the website publisher cannot access it without first informing the user. I agree with the European Commission that the person has the right to be informed of all software which accesses the information contained on his computer. Adblock detector software is not illegal as websites inform users of their use. But this is a prerequisite for compliance with the various regulations. It is up to institutions such as the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) to monitor that online websites comply with our legislation. The European Commission has already communicated its intention to revise the e-privacy directive, which dates back to 2002. It has already begun an analysis of the need for new legislation at European level to improve this directive. We take part in the negotiations of this proposal for a directive and, as always, we will ensure that the development of business model also respects privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u6	I thank the Secretary of State for his very comprehensive answer. Advertising in general and Internet advertising in particular are invasive and debilitating. This is the reason why Internet users increasingly and massively equip themselves with this type of advertising blockers, the most famous being Adblock. The Internet advertising model has shown its limitations. It is up to publishers to find a new business model and a much less intrusive way to still offer messages on the internet. As you have said, as the Commission says, and this is also my view, scripts are undoubtedly related to cookies or spyware. I therefore strongly encourage you, during the current negotiation of the old e-privacy directive, to ensure that this system is always banned and the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u7	Question No 9671 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u8	Mr. Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, I am very honoured to be able to ask this first question within your privacy jurisdiction. These questions are a continuation of those I have had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice in plenary about the evolving digital environment that criminals and ill-intentioned people use as part of their misdeeds. Within the framework of this necessary trust between the users of this economy, of this digital environment in relation to what is done with their data and the intentions that some might have in it, it is a question of seeing what the relations between the authorities of justice are. It is also a question of how to maintain this necessary balance between the protection of our privacy and the security needs and various legal approaches that are required. Mr Secretary of State, what guarantees does a court have to respect in order to have access to a user's data? Are these rules identical throughout the European Union? What is your light on this aspect of things? What is your view of the place of privacy in access to evidence procedures? Are these safeguards and procedures sufficient? What will your role as Secretary of State for Privacy Protection be in the Minister of Justice's projects? How will all this work out in the coming weeks, months or years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u9	Mr President, Mr Foret, there are already a lot of legislation in place to carry out investigations which are also capable of preserving the secrecy of the investigation, the rights of defence and the principle of adversariality. These include the Criminal Investigation Code, the Computer Crime Act of 28 November 2000 and the Privacy Act of 8 December 1992. These are national provisions. But of course, neither criminals nor the information that is stored on the various databases is at the national level. It is therefore becoming increasingly clear that coordination at European level is needed. There is still room for manoeuvre between Justice and the various services. Secondly, it is clear that new technologies are not only there for citizens, but also available to criminals. We must be able to keep the various advantages for citizens and the digital economy. I am convinced that the three elements, privacy, the digital economy and the effectiveness of justice, are complementary if they are well framed. I have always defended this position in the past and also since I was Secretary of State. As to whether privacy guarantees are sufficient to regulate access to electronic evidence, for the time being, I can answer yes. It is clear that our legislative framework provides sufficient protection for citizens. However, we are developing a new arsenal of measures because this framework must evolve. In view of the increasing multiplicity of technologies and the internationalisation of actors, we will have to ensure that this legislative development maintains the essential guarantee of independent judicial control. It's very important to me. We are evolving and we must remain very vigilant about the various developments. We really need to protect the privacy of people, and at the same time protect their security in society and ensure development opportunities for the digital economy. These are the three forces we must bring together. I believe that in the coming weeks and months, at European and Belgian level, we will be able to establish a situation where things will be more effective and transparent for citizens than at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u10	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State. I have no doubt that he will take things very seriously with efficiency and pragmatism. It is clear that this balance between the protection of privacy and the effectiveness of justice must be permanent and that the right questions must constantly be asked as to the principles of proportionality and purpose in the management of all such data. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again and again in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the secretariat of the committee and the committee for their willingness to postpone this question because of my convalescence. However, this issue is timely, although my question was specifically about the issue of women. Indeed, Minister, a recent French study makes an unprecedented observation on the situation of women incarcerated. It is important to look at their situation here in Belgium. Perhaps even more particularly at the moment. Women make up only a very small percentage of the prison population and are described as a "poor parent" of the prison administration. I wish I had more information. My questions are as follows. What is the proportion of women prisoners in the prison population? Can you give us the establishments with a women's neighbourhood, the number of places in these neighbourhoods and therefore the proportion of men in prison? I had the opportunity to see a report recently showing a section for women with children in Berkendael and Lantin. Given the limited number of women's institutions in each of these institutions, are there sufficient meeting and visiting facilities to maintain the family link between the detainee and her children? Would you have any figures and a proportion to give us on unsupervised visits and family visits to inmates? What is the proportion of male overseers in wings and prisons for women? Is the principles of non-search of male guards over female inmates respected in each institution? What are your ambitions in the face of the situation of Belgian prisoners who are often in dire need of hygiene and the basic means necessary for any woman? With regard to terrorism, were there specific wings for radicalized prisoners? What prisons are they in? The issues raised in this report, which are pending for Belgium, are of course particularly acute at the moment. Are there conditions that are even more degrading given the strike we are currently experiencing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Matz, women are only a small minority in Belgian prisons. As of 23 February 2016, there were 539 women in prisons for a total of 11,079 prisoners, or 4.8 per cent of the prison population. There were 407 places in the prisons of Bruges, Antwerp, Ghent, Hasselt, Lantin, Marche, Mons and Forest. Apart from the Forest prison where the women's building is physically separated from the rest of the infrastructure, the other sections for women are integrated into existing prisons. Women can therefore make use of all the facilities available in the establishment in terms of meeting places, preaux, visiting rooms, etc. I cannot provide you with figures on the number of unsupervised visits or family visits of inmates, but this will be a step forward. As for the male staff who work for women, no significant problems have been reported in the past. It goes without saying that rules of non-search are scrupulously observed. In recent years, more attention has been paid to the situation of women prisoners. I have planned the opening of 20 places in Zelzate specifically for interned women who are at high risk. Similarly, Haren Prison provides for two sections for women, one of which will be open, a first in Belgium. It won't solve all the problems, but we're on the right track. A radicalized prison wing is not appropriate at this time. The number of women in detention who would meet the criteria for placement in such a wing is so small – we are talking about a maximum of 2 or 3 inmates – that such an infrastructure would have a totally disproportionate cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u13	Minister, thank you for those answers that seem reassuring about the situation of women. I am surprised at such a dichotomy between a French report of similar conditions of detention in the way of proceeding with regard to France and the Belgian situation where everything seems to go into the best of the worlds for women in prison. I am therefore a little surprised at this difference from France and the alarm cry made in this French report. I am surprised that you seem to say - but I am glad if that is the case - that everything is going well in the best of the worlds for these women and that there is not, as such, a real specific policy in terms of incarceration on a whole series of elements. It seems to me that you do not mention the particular wings where women can be with their children that were presented very recently in the press. There are avenues, but don't there need more, if not more? In the context we know, I admit that I am very concerned, especially for this more vulnerable audience of women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u14	When you left the JHA Council on 11 March, you announced that general guidelines for a new proposal for a European anti-terrorism directive had been adopted by the Council. This directive is important for harmonising European practices in this area and for strengthening the Union's legal framework to combat terrorism and of course prevent new acts that could be prepared in the territory of Europe. It was announced that financing, organisation and logistical assistance would be particularly targeted by this new directive, as well as the provision of weapons of all kinds and the organisation of terrorist shelters. The federal Parliament has already passed various bills strengthening our legal arsenal in this area both in 2013 and in July 2015. Minister, what are the specific recommendations of the directive on combating terrorism? How soon will this directive come into being? Will Belgium need to further strengthen its legal arsenal in this area and if so, in which areas more precisely?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Matz, the JHA Council of 11 March 2016 did indeed approve a proposal for a directive on the fight against terrorism on the basis of a Commission proposal. The Directive will replace the 2002 Framework Decision, as amended in 2008. Compared to the Framework Decision, the Directive includes new criminalizations of terrorism and in particular, receiving information, staying abroad and financing linked to terrorism. The agreement of 11 March is only a stage in the negotiations. The text determines the Council's starting position before negotiating with the European Parliament. It is possible, given the importance of the dossier and the topicality, that a final agreement can be reached in June. As far as Belgium is concerned, our legislative arsenal is already largely in line with the new proposal for a directive. Training in terrorism had already been re-criminalized in 2013. Staying abroad for terrorist purposes was included in our Criminal Code in July 2015. Our Council of Ministers on 11 March also approved a bill to strengthen criminalization of terrorism. It provides for the criminalization of acts preparatory to a terrorist attack, changes certain aspects of the criminalization of participation in terrorist groups or incitement to terrorism, and expands the offence of financing terrorism. The text was sent to the Council of State. Belgian law actually goes further than the directive approved by the Council last week. I have thus regretted to the colleagues of the last JHA Council that the text proposed by the Dutch Presidency only criminalizes movements outside the Union for terrorist purposes and not intra-Union travel as proposed by the Commission. It therefore remains to be seen what the final text will be, but it is unlikely that it will require major adaptations of Belgian law. The Directive is an important instrument of harmonisation. We will have to compromise, but I will do everything in my power to maintain the ambition of the European text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u16	Minister, thank you for that ambition. No later than an hour and a half ago, it was an exchange of information and Europol that I was discussing with your colleague from the Interior, in particular the fact that Belgium had always been a great provider of information at Europol. The European Parliament adopted a series of provisions this morning. We regret the non-mandatory but voluntary nature of states when we know the European ramifications of terrorism-related issues and the lack of European ambition in the broad sense of the term on the exchange of information, criminalisation and on a legal arsenal that Europe could develop in a uniform manner. The NRP is only on a voluntary basis at European level and we realize that if there are countries that want to move forward, others are holding back the four irons and it is very annoying for the fight against terrorism. I hope that you will be able to raise the standards as high as possible in terms of harmonisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u17	Mr Minister, I am sorry to come back with this dossier, but it upsets the players in the judicial world in Liège enormously. Last February, you had answered several of our questions about the threat of disappearance of the Forensic Institute of Liège due to the significant drop in the pricing of its DNA research service that you had decided. Justice makes less use of the DNA analyses of this institute, whose reputation is indisputable. His links with university and research are known. This is why the removal of his DNA laboratory will eventually, probably in 2017, lead to his pure and simple disappearance. I've been looking in vain for answers, but I hope you can give them to me. For what reasons, almost brutally, does justice address the Institute much less? Applications will therefore have to be transferred either to Brussels or to Flanders or abroad - in this case to Germany - and this is a big deal, since Wallonia will be deprived of this institute, which houses a laboratory specializing in DNA analysis. Why did justice suddenly choose not to use the DNA analyses provided by the Institute? It is the second one that closes in Wallonia, for lack of sufficient budget. How do you justify this situation? Above all, if there is an explanation, is another structural solution possible? We cannot let an institute of such quality disappear – but if another one closes elsewhere, it would be just as unfortunate. I would remind you that several notices have already been served. The call made by the Institute is of concern to the Liegeians present in this commission. It would be a gross mistake to consider that these are cases and that if DNA tests are cheaper in Germany, that is where we have to go and so much worse for the Forensic Institute of Liège. It is all the expertise accumulated by the Institute that is set aside and we move on. Again, one of the essential parts of the justice system is meaningless.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u18	Dear colleague, I want to be clear and to remove all the misunderstandings that persist on this subject. As I have already indicated, the correct remuneration of judicial experts because of the quality required of them is one of my concerns. The difficulty of striking a balance between proper remuneration and the quality requirements of judicial experts is particularly evident in criminal matters. In civil matters, it is essentially the parties who choose the judicial experts and pay them at commercial rates. However, in criminal cases, the court pays the expert at rates which cover only the costs of carrying out his duties of general interest. These rates per service are the same for all labs, the authorities acting here in the interest of the person from whom these costs are recovered after conviction. This also applies to the analyses that the approved laboratories must carry out for justice. Since previously indexed applied tariffs date back to 1999, it is still difficult to say that the analytical apparatus is in a very expensive stage of research and development, on which the previous tariffs were still largely based. A new cost analysis and examples from abroad clearly indicate that tariffs should be adapted to the new economic reality of the company. In my answers to your question no.9177 of February 17, 2016, I provided you with figures by adding that the King's prosecutors or investigating judges were the only ones who were authorized to appoint the experts attached to the laboratories approved by the King. They autonomously decide which laboratory they want to use to establish the DNA profile and to carry out the comparative DNA analysis in the context of the judicial files entrusted to them. The principle of separation of powers does not allow me, as a minister, to intervene in the selection of experts attached to the laboratory. With regard to the possible causes of a decrease in expenditure on DNA analysis and of a shift that seems to have occurred, in terms of prescriptions, in the behaviour of the King's prosecutors and investigating judges, I can only refer to the findings raised at the last conference organized by the INCC in June 2014 on DNA analysis and legal costs. It appeared that in 2014, magistrates requested significantly less DNA analysis than in the past, throughout the country. This information was confirmed by the head of the biological section of NCIC and experts from some laboratories. There are several reasons for this decrease. First, since 1 January 2014, the National DNA Cell has started its activities under the Act of 7 November 2011 and the Royal Decree of 17 July 2013, which brought it into force. Reducing the costs of testing for convicts also has undeniable consequences for Belgian laboratories, since they are now excluded from doing so. Following a European tender launched by the SPF Justice, the German laboratory Eurofins was appointed to carry out all analyses of the profiles of Belgian convicts. The profit in budgetary terms is very high. The average cost of the analyses was thus reduced from EUR 317.17 to EUR 29.90 excluding VAT per analysis. The increase in records in the "condemned" data bank leads to the identification of traces of suspects. This avoids doubles or even triple requests for analysis. CNCC's forensic boards, which can now be consulted by magistrates, have certainly allowed and will still have to promote savings thanks to the relevance of their opinions, which avoid unnecessary expertise. Guidance tests also help to avoid unnecessary requests for expertise. This is the case, for example, if, from the outset, one can exclude the presence of a human trace on a biological trace. A shift to certain other approved laboratories may be due to the state-of-the-art equipment used by these laboratories or to the speed and accuracy with which an approved laboratory expert required for the comparative DNA analysis performs and can provide it. Another possible factor is the complexity of the cases to be dealt with by the judges concerned. For the requesting magistrates, it remains essential that quality requirements be guaranteed on an ongoing basis. In addition, it should be noted that accredited laboratories derive only part of their income from DNA testing at the request of the judicial authorities. These are paid according to the benefits and the consequent cost statements issued by the laboratory. These statements of costs must be taxed by the requesting magistrate and accompanied by the summons. It is therefore neither an allocation nor a grant to the various laboratories. Of course, it is not within my competence to decide whether a laboratory should close. This decision shall be taken by its Management Board. Therefore, I can only take note of the fact that in Wallonia university and other laboratories no longer want to meet the challenge of conducting DNA tests for justice. The workload will be distributed among the six approved laboratories in Belgium. This should not, however, lead to delays in judicial proceedings. As to why the decrease in expenditure on DNA analysis affects Walloon laboratories, it is possible that the cause may also lie in the modalities of university funding in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels, in the policy of investment carried out by laboratories and in the efficiency of the use of the apparatus available in these laboratories. As I promised, there will be an evaluation carried out with the laboratories for the implementation of the new Royal Order and its effects on the ground. This assessment time was set at 10 a.m. on June 9, 2016 at the Office of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u19	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand very well the lab part that you have just explained again. This is an area where the Public Procurement Directive applies, etc. You can't intervene in the choice of a lab. On the other hand, we know that it is part of the Forensic Institute that objectively exceeds the unique framework of DNA analysis. This part that is threatened threatens the whole. On the other hand, you have a possibility of intervention about the forensic institute that does not only DNA analysis. That's what I'm saying. When you tell me: "I take note that the Walloon labs no longer want to perform analyses, etc.It's not that they don't want it anymore, it's that they don't know how to do it anymore! Indeed, at the level of financial sustainability, this is no longer possible. That was what also allowed them to maintain the balance of other missions of legal expertise. I think there's some confusion. There is certainly DNA analysis and I understand very well what you are telling me. You do not have a directive on public procurement. But a forensic institute is more than DNA analysis. We have an institute that, in spite of him, will have to shut down in the long run. Its director is giving notice to a whole series of employees; if you think it's nice! We know this institute has a reputation. In every judicial case, even if it goes beyond the borders of the country, the director intervenes effectively on several cases to give a global expertise. I'm not so sorry about the DNA aspect. We are indeed subject to European constraints. On the other hand, I regret that your department cannot support the other activities of the Forensic Institute that belong to you. You can "support" them! With you, I look forward to the June 9 meeting and this evaluation. It's not about changing pricing, but recognize that we're in a public service. We're not in the private sector. These are autopsy and other legal acts. I very much hope that you will realize that the labs still want to work. The fact is, they don't know anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u20	I don't think I said they don't want to work anymore, but they don't want to meet the challenge, in this case, in the case you probably find that I imposed. To tell you everything, I am busy reviewing all the rates that justice pays upwards or downwards, depending on the circumstances. This means that I have reviewed, for example, the tariffs of judicial officers down. But it is clear that for some expertise, the rates will have to be revised upwards. The evaluation I am talking about will also highlight this exercise. It is a general exercise - public or not - in which justice is forced to adjust the prices it pays to market conditions, in both directions. It is obvious that from time to time we can no longer collect the necessary expertise with the old tariffs. They will therefore have to be amended upwards. This is the exercise that I do in the most objective way possible and in the interests of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u21	Mr Minister, of course we have to adapt to the market, but we recognize that this is not a conventional procurement market for supplies, for which we are going to examine which paper is the cheapest. There is a public service mission that you must take into account in a comprehensive manner. The dichotomies between Flanders and Wallonia continue to challenge me. The evaluation will take place on June 9, and I look forward to it. I am sure that at some point the reason will come back in this case to the benefit of the efficiency of the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u22	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Vanessa Matz and the response of the Minister of Justice, - Whereas the Walloon expertise which is carried out, not only at the level of the DNA laboratory but also at the level of the Medical and Legal Institute in general, is recognised on a very wide scale, - Whereas the reduction in budgets allocated to DNA laboratories will result in a significant loss of knowledge and know-how of this staff towards other horizons, - Whereas, following the closure of BIO.Be (another Walloon centre for DNA analysis), the Forensic Institute is the only and only Walloon forensic institute, which means that due to the forthcoming closure of the DNA laboratory in Liège, Walloon parquet floors will therefore have to use Brussels, Flemish or foreign laboratories in the future, asks the government to allow the maintenance of the Forensic Institute of Liège, now the only Walloon institute, and to review the enormous budgetary savings that are realized there and which result in the future closure of the laboratory, and ultimately of the entire Institute." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Vanessa Matz and the Minister of Justice's reply, - whereas the Walloon expertise of both the DNA laboratory and the Liège Institut de Médecine légale is generally widely recognised, - whereas the reduction in the budgets for DNA laboratories will lead to a significant loss of experience and know-how of such staff, which will be used elsewhere, - whereas, following the closure of BIO.be (another Walloon centre for DNA analysis), the Institut de Médecine légale is today the only Walloon institute for forensic medical research, which means that the Walloon parquets will now have to appeal to Brussels, Flemish or foreign laboratories as a result of the imminent closure of the DNA laboratory in Liège, calls on the Government the continued existence of the Liège Institut de Médecinelégale, which will soon be the only Walloon institute in which such investigations are carried out, and to review the drastic budgetary savings relating to that institute which will lead to the closure of the laboratory and, in the long term, to the closure of the institute as a whole." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie De Wit. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie De Wit. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u23	Mr. President, Minister, according to the CSC Public Services, the infrastructure at Forest Prison is not suitable for the reception of persons suspected of terrorism. Indeed, it is prisoners who must be subject to special measures and who, in some cases, must be isolated. Up to 12 detainees were held for terrorist acts in Forest. This is not the only concern, since the reception of these detainees also presents organizational difficulties. Every move poses difficulties since the entire prison is blocked, which affects the daily lives of all prisoners. According to staff, three or four "terrorism" detainees would be manageable, but they say they have neither the cells nor the staff to accommodate them in an already overcrowded prison. The prisons of lttre and Hasselt are, for their part, being adapted to provide for a special wing dedicated to the reception of radicalised prisoners. Minister, how many people suspected of terrorism are currently incarcerated in Forest Prison? Are there any adaptations to the prison and its surroundings for the reception of these particular prisoners? What additional human resources are planned, or have already increased, to deal with the observation that, for reasons of ease, detainees in connection with terrorist acts are placed in Forest pending the processing of their case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Özen, your question is dated 19 April. The answer was ready in time, but in the meantime, for various reasons, we had to postpone it. I would therefore not dare swear, in view of these particular circumstances, that the answer is 100% up-to-date. As of 23 April 2016, six persons suspected of terrorism were detained in Forest Prison. It is true that as a result of the 22 March attacks, the number reached a dozen for several days, but this remains an exceptional situation that has not continued. The majority of suspected persons are arrested in Brussels and are taken into Brussels detention centres. After their first appearance before the Chamber of Counsel, many of them are transferred to prisons in Flanders and Wallonia, with the agreement of the investigating judges concerned and in collaboration with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Taking into account the infrastructure of the Forest prison and, above all, the closure of the D wing, a few months ago, the Forest prison has only one wing or even a section where these detainees can be accommodated. We are aware that hosting 12 inmates presenting this profile presents difficulties at different levels. However, there is no intention or policy to maintain such a number in the long term. On the contrary, we are ensuring that these detainees are distributed in the prisons of the country as soon as possible. There are no infrastructure adaptations planned, but at the regime level, prisoners suspected of terrorism may be subject to special security measures or may be placed under a particular individual security regime. They may be subject to special measures in case of transport to courthouses and the instructions for visits may be more stringent. In general, we believe that the normal regime is the best to protect them from even more serious radicalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. Between the time the question was tabled and the current situation, which is even more serious given the strikes that have taken place in recent weeks, it is a pity not to have up-to-date figures. You know that these detainees require specific, complex management, with staff who have training to avoid spreading the radical message within our prisons. I think we really need means, even if you say that we should integrate them into another system and not leave the prisoners radicalized together. This requires additional staff and infrastructure resources for the proper management of these detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u26	The President Question No. 11083 by Mrs. Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u27	Minister, although this question is still very topical, in view of the current problem, it has already been tabled at the beginning of the strike incident. At that time we heard that prison staff were lagging behind for no less than 500 000 days of leave. That's a figure to fall back on, isn't it? That is to say, 65 days per full-time employee, according to the trade unions' calculation. They claim that the number of staff will fall further, making it even more difficult to take those leave days. Loose vacation days are only given if they are requested three months in advance. Of course, that is not flexible. They fear that this year they will have a million overdue leave days. That's a huge number. I come to my questions, only on this subject. I will ask a number of questions about the situation in prisons today. Now I'm talking specifically about leave days. Are the numbers true? Did you get a chance to check them out? These figures come from the trade unions. Is it true that there are an average of 65 vacation days open for each member of staff? Is the prognosis that this number could reach a million? Do you share the concern that the number can double? What measures can you take to address this problem now and in the future? What is the state of play regarding the possibility of paying flexicurities to prison staff? Finally, there is a question to which we already know the answer, Minister. I was wondering if you would continue to consult with the trade unions to resolve this problem, but we know that you are now meeting almost daily with the trade unions. Perhaps you could give a hint of the veil on the other aspects after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u28	Mrs De Wit, there is indeed a delay of 504 751 days' leave, of all kinds, for all employees. On 1 April 2016 we had 9 053 employees. This means that the average leave delay per employee is 55.75 days. These figures were discussed with the trade unions in mid-April. You know that these talks have resulted in the so-called "backpacks'. You also know that there is a distant connection to the great absenteeism in our prisons. Leave delays increased by 1.84 % from 2014 to 2015. We can therefore assume that this year's leave delay will not double. If the increase is linear, we end up with a delay of 514 038 days at the end of 2016. A working group, composed of the administration, the trade unions and my cabinet, has been working on pistes since January 2015 to analyse the problems in this area and to work out solutions. One of the slopes revolves around the system of applying for leave. There should be a uniform procedure and clear guidelines. The flexi premium shall follow the administrative and budgetary control followed by any amendment to a Royal Decree or Ministerial Decree. At present, this premium is part of the negotiations with the trade unions. Further negotiations are also under way in the Working Party on Leave. A specific date for the next meeting has not yet been set, but it will be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u29	Mr President, Minister, it is certainly reassuring that we are not going to go to a million. I was hoping this was a slight exaggeration. I am also aware that there are many other factors, including absenteeism. I have a question on this, but I am going to turn it into a written question, because apparently the figures could not be requested. It also has to do with last year's trade union leave, so others simply couldn't take their leave. We must remain vigilant, because if this is one of the triggers, there are apparently more than one to get into a situation as we know it today, then we simply need to find a solution. I am certainly pleased that the prognosis of growth is more nuanced than what we could read in the press or in other communications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u30	Minister, I told you, I have a series of questions about prisons. We know that 16 prisoners from the Lantin prison, two Huy inmates, and three of Paifve's interned, have been proved right by the Liège Court of First Instance. They had charged that there was no minimum duty during the strike. They now receive 300 euros per day per plaintiff if the Belgian State does not guarantee their daily three meals, one of which is warm, a walk of at least one hour, access to a telephone, at least three family visits per week, normal access to the showers and visit of their lawyers. In itself, these are not abnormal demands of those involved. There are other charges pending, that's how we read in the press. There is also a proposal from the Ligue des Droits de löjmme and others to release a number of people prematurely. These would be people who do not belong in prison or who are about to be released. They hope to reach between about 11 000 and 10 000 inmates. Mr Minister, do we already pay the 21 prisoners and interned the compensation they have obtained today? In the meantime, has the court ruling been complied with? I don't think so, because the strike is still going on. Or did the prison director intervene himself? Are you appealing the verdict? Do you have an idea of the amount of compensation that the Belgian State had to pay in 2014, 2015 and 2016 following similar complaints? What is your opinion, Minister, on the proposal of the Ligue des Droits de l'Ivre-Homme to release prisoners early, or to give them a discount, in order to solve today's problem of overpopulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u31	Mrs De Wit, the decisions provide that if certain rights are infringed from the day following service of those decisions, the Belgian State must pay a periodic penalty payment. It is up to the requesting party to indicate whether there were any violations. If that is the case, the State will pay the periodic penalty payments. The decisions were taken on a unilateral application, i.e. without the State being heard. We're working with our lawyer to see if there's any reason to object to the orders. The figures you are asking for need a calculation analysis, which we cannot provide in the short term. Like the chairman of the Ligue des Droits de l'l'Homme, I believe that detention should be carried out in normal circumstances, for each inmate. Penitentiary overpopulation hypothesizes that. As has often been pointed out in Parliament and in committee and as reflected in my judicial plan, I have already taken a lot of measures and will take a lot of measures to combat overcrowding. It concerns both the interned, the convicted and the temporarily attached. We have also made strong progress in the area of the emigration of illegal convicts, that is to say, faster repatriation. Over the past year, 300 interned and more than a thousand illegal aliens have flowed out of prison. Today there are about 11 000 inmates for about 10 000 places. This varies from day to day, but there is an overpopulation compared to the capacity of only 10%, while up to a few years it was more than 20%. So we are making progress and will certainly make further progress in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u32	Minister, from your reply I have concluded that no service has yet been received, that no claim for compensation has yet been made. I have no problem with those figures coming later, I understand that. You took a little bike ride around the last question. Of course, I am also in favour of humane conditions for prisoners, that is obvious. You have indeed taken measures to deal with the overpopulation; you are working on it and you will continue to work on it. However, my question was about the specific proposal made last week by several channels, about some kind of collective grace or early release. I found that you didn't answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u33	Mr Minister, according to the RTBF, more than 1,200 Belgo-Turks are listed on a Turkish government blacklist, which would prevent them from returning to Turkey again. It is their positions against the Turkish government and against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in particular that would justify this unacceptable means of pressure to reduce political opponents to silence. This information is being revealed while, at the moment, in Turkey, more than a thousand people are being prosecuted for insulting the President. Questioned by RTBF, UCL researcher Vincent Eiffling says about how this list would be drawn up: "If so, we must go to the most active base of AKP activists, Erdogan's party, it is a way to go through informal channels to gather information from those who are opposed to its policy, to identify them, to target them". This episode recalls the discussions we had in the House last January when we discussed the bill that Mr. Van Hecke and I had filed about the control of the activities of foreign intelligence services in Belgium. Minister, my questions: What initiatives has the FPS Justice taken to implement this legislation passed in the House on January 21, 2016? Has State Security seen its personnel framework increase in order to carry out this new mission to combat interference? In the particular case of Turkey, have you instructed your services, and in particular the State Security, to ensure that the activities described by the RTBF can be followed up in detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u34	Mr Hellings, since the law of 29 January 2016 amending the Organic Law of 30 November 1998 of the intelligence and security services, the State Security and the General Intelligence and Security Service have the express task of exercising surveillance over the activities of foreign intelligence services on Belgian territory. Although the task of the Sûreté de l'Etat was previously to collect information on the activities of foreign intelligence services in the area of espionage and interference, the law of 29 January 2016 has the merit that all foreign intelligence services activities in Belgium must now fall within the scope of our intelligence services. As far as State Security is concerned, the focus of its Counter Intelligence section created in 2015 is expanded. An important impact is that it is able to respond more quickly in an appropriate manner when such activities do not comply with Belgian law or if they pose a threat to our vital interests and values. A second merit is that the State Security can now use special intelligence methods in the context of the constitution and strengthening of an information position in this area. Previously, they could not use this category of BIM methods to combat foreign interference. A third merit of this law of 2016 is that it explicitly establishes as a legal mission the supervision of the activities of foreign intelligence services on Belgian territory. In doing so, our country is part of the small number of countries that have responded to an important recommendation of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. The State Security has not taken any specific measures for the implementation of the law. The above-mentioned reform of its organizational structure led to the creation of its Counter Intelligence operational section, which includes all intelligence officers specializing in the surveillance of foreign intelligence services. This centralisation of knowledge and expertise has resulted in the fact that the implementation of this priority of the intelligence service did not require any particular expansion of the personnel framework. As I have already said, the law of 29 January 2016 extends, to a large extent, the legal means of this section. Finally, I am in a position to inform you that I did not have to give specific instructions to the State Security regarding the examination of the problem you are referring to. As an internal intelligence service, the Sûreté automatically pays due attention to signals which could be indicative of problematic activities carried out on Belgian territory. She confirmed to me that the issue in question was the subject of her specific attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u35	You have listed all the advantages of the bill that Mr. Van Hecke and I have filed for the excellent reasons that you have just recalled here. On this subject, we all agree. It is very good to be able to have a skill, it is also very good to have the staff to exercise that skill. I hear you're saying that the Sûreté has enough staff to take over, I'm not so sure. The Security Force already lacks staff to carry out its essential task of combating terrorism. We see today that the Turkish diaspora is under enormous pressure, and we will come back to it later on in another question in relation to the interference of the diyanet in Belgian internal affairs. This is an essential issue. If we are ever to create the ideal conditions for integration, we must also ensure that countries such as Turkey cease playing this role of controlling this Turkish diaspora. Today we have the legal means, but we still need the human resources to be able to carry out this new task, and we will follow this issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u36	Minister, after the attacks of 22 March in Brussels and Zaventem, there was a minute's silence in many places in the country, including in several prisons. During that minute of silence there would have been several incidents, in which prisoners would have disturbed the minute silence. Mr. Secretary, in view of these incidents, I have the following questions for you. How many incidents would it involve, exactly? What prisons did these incidents take place in? Are these incidents about individuals who are known for their radicalisation background? If not, will they receive specialist guidance in prison from now on? Can and, if so, are specific measures taken against those individuals? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u37	Mr Metsu, a number of reactions were indeed reported in the context of the minute silence in honour of the victims of the attacks of 22 March. It is a very small minority of the penitentiary institutions, in particular Beveren and Oudenaarde. Some of the prisoners involved are known for their link with radicalism, but there too they were a minority. The detainees concerned will continue to be followed up and screened in response to the facts. In such cases, risk derivatives shall be weighed and appropriate measures shall always be taken in terms of informing the security services, setting up disciplinary procedures and taking security measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u39	Minister, Salah Abdeslam was transferred to Beveren's prison before his transfer to Paris so that he would not get in touch with the arrested terrorist Abrini. In Beveren, Abdeslam was placed in a highly secured and separate cell. We have talked about this a number of times. Prisons can be important schools for bad behavior and also a hotbed for spreading extremist ideologies. When terrorists are placed together in a closed group, the exchange of know-how is at risk. The risk of terrorist planning on release would also increase. Thus, isolation would be appropriate in a certain sense. However, there are also a number of other elements to be taken into account in specialised departments in prisons. When one radicalizes or places terrorists together, one gives them a kind of lofty status and they might already proactively consider themselves a martyr. Their frustration could also increase as a result of that isolation. In prisons we are aware of this, including in the special departments of Ittre and Bruges, and so we are trying to establish a regime as normal as possible. I understand that in addition to the two departments in Bruges and Ittre, there are also five so-called satellite prisons in Saint Gillis, Ghent, Bruges, Lantin and Andenne. There prisoners are intensely observed when they are eligible to be placed in Hasselt and Ittre. As a result of these situations, I have a number of questions for you, Mr. Secretary. Firstly, why exactly was Abdeslam transferred to Beveren's prison and not to one of the two specialised departments or one of the five satellite prisons? Secondly, is Abrini currently being completely isolated? If so, when will Abrini end up in a group, a specialized group of twenty, as it now exists in Bruges and Ittre? If this does not happen, is social isolation desirable in the long term? Thirdly, are all 20 places in Bruges and Ittre currently taken? Fourthly, there is currently no specialised department, at least as far as I know, in the prisons for women radicalised individuals. Are there women who are currently staying in our Belgian prisons because of such acts? If so, how many? Do you think about setting up such a department for women in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u40	Mr Metsu, it is important to know that the question where an arrest warrant is executed is answered by the investigating judge. So he decided that Salah Abdeslam should first be locked in a secure cell in Bruges and then in Beveren. Also with regard to Mohamed Abrini, an investigating judge decided on the place where the arrest warrant had to be executed. In the Bruges prison, as you know, there is no department for terro, as is the case in Hasselt and Ittre. Bruges does have a high-security police officer for prisoners who are of flight risk and/or pose a permanent threat to security, e.g. for detainees suspected or convicted of terrorist offences, but also for other offences. As you know, the specialised departments are located in Ittre and Hasselt. Places aren't full yet. A gradual occupation is elected after a thorough screening. The main criterion is the degree of contamination or infectiousness for other detainees with radical or extremist ideas. A two-track policy is being pursued. There's no systematic concentration of the terra-convicts. Firstly, there is an integrated and widespread follow-up to detention, but if there is a serious risk of radicalisation and infectiousness of fellow inmates, a placement in the specialised section is envisaged. As I have just said to Mrs Matz, there are too few female prisoners who have been radicalised to justify a separate department in prison for them. They could end up in one of the five satellite prisons you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u41	Minister, it is a clear answer, but there may still be a few concrete figures missing. How many places are occupied in the prisons of Ittre and Hasselt? How many are still free? You're also saying there's not enough female inmates. How many female inmates is that, exactly? I understand that the nature of the contamination is important and that you do not equate and categorize everyone in the same way. It can then be from heavily radicalized individuals to slightly less radicalized individuals. I am very much looking forward to the way you will deal with this in prisons, but it is very encouraging that you do not want to put them together by definition. However, if there is a risk of further contamination, these persons must be absolutely prevented and kept as far away from prison as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u42	I turn my question No 11162 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u43	Mr Minister, on 25 April, at your hearing in the European Parliament, you stated that the "Diyanet Belgium", the Belgian branch of the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs, brought with other Belgian organisations an action for annulment to the Council of State against the Royal Decree of 15 February, which reorganises the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. The complainants rely on three arguments: from sprains to the principle of state non-interference in matters of worship - it is to fall from his chair! - new prerogatives granted to the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium and, finally, the very structure of the latter. This case breaks out as we know that in our territory, some Turkish mosques, even when recognized by the state, refuse to preach there by imams paid by Belgium. Turkish imams are sent here and paid directly by the Turkish government. This is totally contrary to the spirit of the royal decree which you took the initiative - which I congratulate you on the passage - and which promotes the emergence of a Belgian Islam. Hence, minister, my three questions. Does this umpteenth interference by the Turkish government in Belgian religious affairs prompt you to implement quickly the law of 29 January, referred to in the previous question, which aims precisely to monitor closely the activities of foreign intelligence services in their inadmissible control of diasporas, in this case the Turkish diaspora? What political and diplomatic initiatives have you taken, together with your Foreign Affairs colleague, to protest officially to the Turkish Government about this intolerable interference in the affairs of worship in Belgium? Finally, what are the political consequences of this recourse to the Council of State for the implementation of this important royal decree reforming the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u44	Mr Hellings, for your first question, I invite you to refer to the answer given to your question No. 11150 on the control of the activities of foreign intelligence services. I have taken note of the fact that the association "Diyanet Belgium" apparently does not agree with the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 recognizing the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. It has therefore used the legal means available to our State under the rule of law to bring an action against this royal decree. It goes without saying that I would have preferred things to take another turn, but democracy involves burdens and duties. On Monday, 2 May, a meeting was held, at the initiative of my cabinet, with the other firms concerned, in order to define a coordinated approach for various bilateral issues that we are dealing with with Turkey. Since the appeal to the Council of State is not suspensive, the Royal Decree in question remains applicable until further notice. The Belgian State filed its note in defence of the Royal Decree last Monday. The State Council can now consider the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, I am pleased to see once again that we agree on the excellence of the law that Ecolo-Groen voted on January 20, 2016. It must therefore be implemented quickly. It is a pity that this appeal takes place while you have visited Turkey recently. The Foreign Minister also visited Turkey. Recently, the Prime Minister, at a European Council, signed and signed an agreement with Turkey on immigration. The constant feature of all the agreements, be they judicial, political, asylum and migration and others, that we sign with Turkey is that Turkey is not only an authoritarian state with which it is difficult, as a democrat, to envisage agreements but also a partner that is unreliable. The question posed by Turkey's lack of trust is demonstrated. I think we need to be as careful as possible as democrats before we can imagine anything coming from this country in the future. We must retain this episode of recourse to the State Council of the Diyanet, which is an organ of the Turkish Government as such that plays a role of interference in the internal affairs of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u46	Mr President, Minister, one of the cornerstones of a rule of law is access to justice for all, which is also constitutionally laid down. For those who cannot afford legal assistance themselves, there is the second-line assistance, which people know as pro bono. However, this system is under increasing pressure. The budget for second-line assistance has more than tripled over a decade, from EUR 25 million in 2003 to EUR 78 million in 2013. The number of files also increases year after year. It is to be expected that this increase will slow down for a while. After all, the Salduz assistance will soon have to be extended to all subsequent interrogations in the criminal investigation. It will therefore not be limited to the first hearing. Moreover, in view of the recent asylum crisis, there may also be an increase in the number of foreign files. In the context of the reform of second-line assistance, which is likely to be submitted to Parliament in the near future, a new list of items or nomenclature would be drawn up, inter alia, in close consultation with the desk associations. A new point would correspond to one hour's work, which means a switch. This is based on a point value of 75 euros. However, there is growing doubt as to whether this value can be guaranteed. The concern of lawyers is to such an extent that they protested at the end of March 2016, but also two weeks ago, and left the work for an hour, which is not really common among lawyers. I would have liked to ask you the following questions in order to alleviate the legal uncertainty. Firstly, will the value of the pro-Deopunt for the judicial year 2014-2015, which currently amounts to EUR 25,02 and which I believe has been recently paid, be adjusted in 2016? Secondly, can you confirm that the reform of second-line assistance will also include the proposal for the creation of a fund, as laid down in the coalition agreement? Thirdly, do you therefore consider it possible that we can finally achieve a certain form of guaranteed compensation for pro-Deo lawyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, I am prepared to make proposals to the government to adjust the value of the pro-Deopunt for the 2015-2016 judicial year, as I did for 2014-2015, resulting in a point value of EUR 25,02. I hope to be able to count on the support of everyone to match the value of the point also for the ongoing judicial year. The proposal to set up the second-line legal assistance fund will be discussed together with the draft law that I have recently submitted to Parliament. The proposal concerns legal assistance and will be submitted by a number of majority parties. You will no doubt remember the coalition agreement which provides for second-line legal assistance to be based on the principle of a closed budget envelope. I know that you too attach great importance to this principle. With your help, I hope to be able to combine the principle of closed envelope financing with the demand for fair compensation from the pro-Deo lawyers. Know that I am in constant consultation with the two national orders on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u48	Minister, I am already somewhat reassured that you will also be taking the trouble this year to begin discussions on the adjustment that is now around EUR 25. If I am not mistaken, I do remember a protocol from 2010 which provides for EUR 27. Unfortunately, we are not yet in a position to do so. We must also admit that we have asked a great deal from the lawyers in recent years. There has been the introduction of VAT, which was not evident. Recently, there were also procedural changes from the three potpourri laws, which require great efforts from lawyers in the field, which they are knowingly fulfilling well. You will certainly agree with me on that. I therefore believe that fair compensation in the pro-Deo system is essential for the correct compensation of lawyers and also for those who enjoy it to ensure that the assistance remains high quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u49	My question No 11243 is transformed into a written question. Questions No 11253 by Mrs Jadin and No 11257 by Mr Brotcorne are also raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u50	Minister, from the court bailiff's practice a neutral service has been launched, an objective and legally accepted system under the name MyTrustO, perhaps not unknown to you. The bailiff looks at the costs and revenues of a debtor and, on the basis of this summary, makes a proposal for debt mediation with creditors. It's a kind of budget management, as they know it with the OCMWFs. The debt management is supervised by a bailiff. This gives the creditors more certainty about effectively and fully repaying the debts. The debtor can save a lot of money through MyTrustO because he does not go from one procedure to another. The cost of this procedure is 150 euros once for start-up and about 50 euros each month for follow-up. It does not in itself provide legal protection, but provides a good alternative to prevent the financial situation in a family from getting structurally out of hand. The current government agreement allows for a re-evaluation of the legal procedure and scope of the collective debt regime. Where necessary, measures shall be taken to adapt and adjust the existing legal procedure. Has there been an evaluation of the procedure and its scope, as provided for in the coalition agreement? If so, what are the results? Are measures being taken to ease or simplify the current regime? If not, is this planned? How do you feel about the fact that the bailiffs, on the one hand, recover debts for the creditor and, on the other hand, mediate for the debtor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u51	With regard to the first question, in a first phase, my priority is the electronic conduct of the collective debt settlement procedure. Once electronic litigation has been introduced, the law on the collective debt regime will be reviewed in a second stage. As for your second question, it may be noted that MyTrustO is an out-of-court form of neutral service that allows debtors to deal with their own financial problems and pay off their debts with the help and under the supervision of a bailiff without creating new major costs. If problems arise in such proceedings due to the attitude of the intermediary bailiff, for example because he is insufficiently neutral, a complaint may be lodged if he so wishes, with the National Chamber of Court of Auditors of Belgium, which may give rise to disciplinary proceedings, or the Federal Ombudsman may be addressed to the FPS Economy for mediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u52	Mr Minister, the collective debt regime is certainly receiving our attention, because it is, so to speak, a true epidemic. The consequences for the debtor's family are also often catastrophic. If I understand correctly, we can expect the evaluation in the short term. We'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u53	Mr President, Minister, on 30 December 2015, you suggested in a number of media the idea of linking a tax advantage to the conclusion of a global legal aid insurance by private individuals. In these budgetary times, it is not so self-evident to implement this idea. You would have asked lawyers' associations to draw up a proposal on fixed fees for the assistance of lawyers under this global legal aid insurance. The OVB has indicated that it is essential to examine whether these fixed remuneration rates are not in breach of existing European competition rules. When discussing your policy paper at the beginning of December, I stressed the need for initiatives to promote legal aid insurance, so that access to justice after the introduction of VAT on lawyers' remuneration would also be protected for the middle class. That's why I have the following questions for you. Did your cabinet already consult with your colleague, Minister of Finance Van Overtveldt about the intended tax advantage? If so, what is the result? In the light of the response of the OVB, have you sought advice on whether or not a system of fixed remuneration rates is in breach of European competition rules? If so, what is its content? If not, do you intend to seek such advice, and by when do you think you will receive that advice? Where are you now with your consultation with the insurance sector, lawyers and consumer organisations? What's the target timeline? In addition to the proposed tax benefit, have you considered other options for promoting legal aid insurance? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, access to justice has my particular attention. I have been working to this end since my arrival, together with the insurance sector and the counters, on a quality legal aid insurance scheme which is sufficiently attractive to provide a comprehensive risk cover for a premium accessible to the public. Consultation on such legal aid insurance is based on three pillars, which require an effort from the three actors involved to ensure that the project succeeds. Firstly, insurance companies should be able to offer a product that covers the most common risk derivatives with a reasonable premium so that the general public is willing to join. To this end, the insurance sector was asked to analyse the most common disputes and the most appropriate risk cover. Secondly, in order to provide appropriate risk cover for each type of dispute, insurance companies should be able to make a reasonable estimate of the costs. Provideability is essential in this respect for the sector. Therefore, the counters were asked to assess the remuneration of lawyers by type of dispute, on the basis of which insurance companies could determine the appropriate level of risk cover. Thirdly, the government can contribute by providing a tax advantage to make the insurance product attractive to the general public and thus provide better access to legal dispute resolution. Following the government agreement, the project also includes incentives for alternative dispute resolution. Indeed, on 29 February 2016, I requested the opinion of the Belgian Competition Authority on compatibility with competition law. The Competition Authority replied to me on 10 March 2016 that determining the conditions to benefit from a tax advantage is a measure which falls outside the scope of the European and Belgian competition rules laid down in Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty. Moreover, since the proposed amendment does not affect the freedom of lawyers to determine their fees and the freedom of insurers to lay down their policy conditions, there is no problem in the light of Article 4.3 of the Convention. The project is indeed designed in such a way that the lawyer can freely determine his fee and the insured person, regardless of the actual remuneration, receives a flat-rate remuneration from the insurance company or receives the actual remuneration if the performance does not exceed the maximum coverage. The delivery of the important project depends on the position that the legislative chambers will take in this respect. It goes without saying that I will involve my colleague, the Minister for Finance, in the section on the tax benefit, as soon as the progress of work with the desks and with the insurance sector raises this issue. At that time, the promotion and campaigns will have to be considered in order to reach as many citizens as possible. Indeed, it turns out that the Belgian is rather reluctant to insure itself against risks which he has not yet experienced in person. Several studies show that those risk derivatives are closer than average. As insurances work on a proactive basis and need to be closed before the risk occurs, it is better to make the Belgian aware in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u55	Mr Minister, I can emphasise the importance of promoting such legal aid insurance. I understand that you have already come up with a way to reach an overall agreement with all the actors involved. I suppose it will come to a definitive picture, now also the lawyers since March, if I have it well ahead of me. I understand that you will take the final project to your colleague, the Minister of Finance. We can talk about it here in the hemisphere at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament 11114 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u57	Minister, every Flemish prison has had a central entry point for drug addicts since 2011. It shouldn't be, Minister, but a lot of prisoners are appealing to it. Drug aid workers go to prison at least once a week to talk to drug addicts. They assist in the provision of assistance and provide for a take-up and treatment as soon as they are released. A certificate from the CAP is important if they wish to qualify for a conditional release. So it is very important that the central registration point is there, especially as up to half of the prisoners are suffering from addiction, if we look at the figures. That's huge. Between 2011 and 2015, 6 243 applications were received. The problem is that the contract with the FPS Justice but ran for five years, until February 2016. The Finance Inspector gave a negative opinion on the extension, while there is a request from the Justice Department to extend it. The CAP has paid its employees themselves over the past few months, but the reserve is now up. Normally the story should have ended two weeks ago: the employees were fired. Minister, it is obvious that an urgent solution is needed here, if not a very important and useful initiative in prisons may disappear and the drug addicts in prisons will be left to their own devices, which cannot be the intention. Could you explain the reasons for the negative opinion of the Finance Inspector? For what reason is there a negative opinion just now, while the evaluation study is still ongoing and its results are expected at the end of this year? What solution do you work out in the short term, so that the service can still survive? Will those six people be effectively fired? That is, of course, a problem, because if the CAP can continue, recruitment must take place again. Will you develop long-term solutions? Do you believe that the CAP should be organised at federal or partial level? If so, have talks been made with the Länder? What is your position? Does a similar problem arise in the Brussels and Walloon prisons? Now this problem arises in the Flemish prisons. What solution will be worked out there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the problem has already been outlined by my colleague. In response, you said that you would meet with the Minister for the Budget on a temporary extension of the contract so that the prisoners can continue to enjoy the necessary help. At the end of this year, the results of a scientific study on CAP debt instruments would be available. On that basis, their future would be decided. In addition to the central reporting points for drug addicts in our prisons, there are also the drug-free departments, unfortunately only in Hasselt and Bruges, for dealing with the drug problem of prisoners. I would also like to mention the drug treatment room, which has been in place since 2008 at the level of the court in Ghent, but it is being extended for only one year and there is no follow-up yet. However, the problem is addressed in the beginning. From the moment a case is dealt with before the court, there is someone present from the aid department who prepares a route for the defendants. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you tell me how many applications the CAPS received since 2011? Has a decision been taken on a temporary extension? If so, can you explain it? Are you considering other measures to tackle the problem of drugs in prisons? If so, which one? Have the drug-free departments in the prisons been evaluated? Are there any plans to expand them? Are you also considering extending Ghent's drug treatment room?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u59	Mr President, Mrs De Wit has indeed outlined the problem well, so I will not repeat it. Minister, I understand that the Finance Inspector gave a negative opinion on the basis of an argument of competence, in particular whether it was a federal or a regional competence. Your colleague in the Flemish Government, Mr Vandeurzen, replied to a question from my colleague. We believe, like our fellow Members, that it is impossible for people to be denied aid, especially because the problem in prisons seems to be so great. Mr Minister, I will not prolong my explanation any longer. I'll put my questions right away. Are temporary measures being taken so that the operation of CAP debt instruments can continue? Surely it is not possible for prisoners with drug problems to fall victim to a government that does not know whether something belongs to regional or federal matters? In the meantime, is there any conclusion on that question? What measures will you take to further ensure the functioning of these CAP debt instruments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned earlier, in October last year a financial dossier was submitted by the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions (EPI) to temporarily extend the contract for the organisation of central notification points in the Flemish prisons by the Flemish Associations of Treatment Centres Drug Addiction Care until the end of 2016. This was done with a view to launching a new public contract for a period of five years. The contract of the VVBV expired at the end of February 2016. A temporary solution was therefore proposed for the operation of CAPS in the Flemish prisons. In its opinion of 29 October 2015, the Finance Inspector requested additional information and also questioned the jurisdiction of the federal government. Following the submission of the requested information and explanations, his colleague from the Treasury Inspectorate on 21 December 2015 advised that an extension would be contrary to the law on public procurement, that the issue of jurisdiction, in his view, was irrelevant, and that the contract should be placed in competition, despite the actual monopoly position of the VVBV in the Flemish drug aid landscape. A new file to search the market was prepared for this. On 29 March 2016, the IF again failed to deliver a favourable opinion and in particular asked again to demonstrate federal competence in this matter. In the alternative, it was also pointed out that budgetary control did not allow the specific demand for additional appropriations for the CAP operation by the budgetary authorities. In the meantime, consultations were held with the Budget Minister's cabinet and, at the request of my policy cell, a professional file was prepared by the Directorate-General for EPI against the IF's decision, which still needs to be adapted. My policy cell has given the order to do so in a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, I cannot make any commitment today, either in terms of success or in terms of the timing of the profession. We do what is within our capabilities to ensure continuity, without any guarantee. Meanwhile, prisoners with addiction problems will have to address themselves directly to the institutions providing extra muros for drug aid, for example in order to be able to submit a possible offer of therapy and treatment to the criminal court or the psychosocial service of the prison as part of a request for conditional release. That, I believe, is not an optimal situation. In the longer term, in the light of the results of the PROSPER study, a scientific study by Belspo on the effects of CAP action in prisons, co-financed by Justice and Public Health, a new public contract can be drawn up for the CAP debt instruments for a longer period of time. The precise definition of the tasks of the CAP debt holders will be crucial to define precisely the competence, the performance to be provided and the means necessary for that purpose. The final report is expected by 1 November 2016. At the request of colleague Vandeurzen, the Flemish administration is also working on an analysis of the issue of competence. I refer to the annual reports of the various organisations for the number of notifications to the CAPs since 2011. It would lead us too far in the context of an oral question to discuss it in detail. For the years from 2011 to 2014, there were 4 819 applications in all Flemish prisons, of which 3 877 led to a conversation with the client. The CAPs are not the only initiatives on the drugs problem in prisons. I refer in this respect to some drug-free departments, as well as to the substitution treatments prescribed by the prison doctor. The drug-free departments are generally evaluated positively. Here too, cooperation with the Communities is essential. In the current budgetary situation, further enlargement is not evident. These projects are not under discussion. In the drug treatment room they try to prevent as much damage as possible to detention. They intervene in an alternative way to avoid prison. This project is definitely successful. Therefore, the protocol with the drug treatment room was extended for another year in December 2015. Following the signature, a roadmap was handed over by the team of the drug treatment room in Ghent and the registration guidelines were set to be able to assess the project optimally. In the light of the sixth state reform and the transfer of the justice houses, the financing of the liaison function for 2016 was also taken over by Jo Vandeurzen, Flemish Minister of Welfare and Health. As you know, the potpourri IV project, if I am not mistaken, will now place the victimless penalty mediation in all prisons. I look forward to evaluating the project on the basis of the new guidelines. The aim is and will continue to be not only to evaluate this model but also to compare it with other models of specialized chambers in the courts of first instance in order to ensure a broader application of a specialized approach. Finally, I would like to inform you that negotiations are currently being held at official level with the Public Health Office in order to examine the extent to which they can intervene in the provision of drug aid in prisons, in particular at therapeutic and medical level. The research in this field is still ongoing, but an experiment is envisaged in three different institutions in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. However, the project is still premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Perhaps first for my fellow Members, I have more recent figures. Until 2015, it was 6 243. So there have been a little more requests. Minister, there are indeed other initiatives, which are also important. One tries to send someone to the aid service before going to prison or to avoid going to prison. If it is just a drug problem, I think it is only obvious. I believe that we should try as much as possible. The most important thing is still getting rid of it. In the meantime, we know that this is not the case in prison. I saw a headline yesterday at RTL or something like that that the strikes have even caused a problem for the provision of drugs in prisons because they cannot get visitors. How hallucinating is it? It's obviously a problem. If an initiative such as the CAP can help to get those people off it, that must of course be the goal, to guide them to get rid of that scumbag, because otherwise I cannot call it, then it is very unfortunate if due to procedural issues and problems of competence people who have done good and useful work now have to stop. That is what I understood from your answer. The CAP can't go on for a while. I am very sorry about that. After all, I am convinced that there are people, including within the prison walls, who need this. I am particularly sorry that this project is going to die for such a reason and I hope that you will find a solution with the Minister for Health or with Flemish Minister Vandeurzen, no matter who.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u62	I, in turn, thank the Minister. Firstly, my reply goes in the same direction as that of my colleague. Anyone who, occasionally, goes to prison or speaks professionally with inmates knows that drugs are widespread in prison. A lot of the inmates are on drugs. Worse still, some of our inmates are familiar with drug use or the use of heavier drugs in prison. We're all aware of it, which is why the approach in prison is so important. I can only regret, as your answer shows, that the discussion of powers is the cause of the fact that prisoners do not have a point of contact today. The division of powers does not always lead to a clearer or simpler approach, is my conclusion. You say that we must now turn to institutions that require extra muros, when prisoners in their files or for a procedure need proof. My experience is that extra muros do not have the capacity to provide drug aid in prisons. They already have waiting lists to help people out of prison, so I don't really believe in that. In any case, I hope that with the many common sense that exists within our governments, the heads will be put together and that a solution will be found. Then there are the other initiatives on drug aid. Your answer indicates a status quo. Drug-free departments are good, but will not be expanded. A drug treatment room is successful, but is only extended by one year each. The conclusion is that there is still a lot of work to be done. Unfortunately, we are taking a step backwards today because of the CAP's problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u63	Prime Minister, I would like to join Mrs Lahaye-Battheu in her reply. There is no capacity for extra muros to do that work. That's as ready as a whistle. So it is extremely regrettable that this is happening. I am very disappointed that no solution can be found. If it was not so sad and if we were not aware of the existing needs, it could be a good Belgian joke. It concerns the law on public procurement and on division of powers. Some people really need all the help they can get. I know you're doing your best, but these people are the victims. I think that's sad. I did, however, remember that in the longer term you will do the necessary with your fellow Members. I am convinced of your goodwill in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 11149 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u65	Mr. Minister, on 25 August 2015, the composition of the Committee for Objectivation of Maintenance Contributions was published in the Belgian Official Journal. The purpose of that committee, as its name suggests, is to establish a system for calculating the maintenance contribution objectively, which, on the one hand, will be a great help to the judges and, on the other hand, will provide legal certainty to the creditors and entitled persons. The Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Elke Sleurs, also announced that he would work on an alimony calculator. Has the Committee on the Objectivity of Maintenance Contributions already started its work? If so, what is the state of play? Has it made any decisions or made any concrete proposals? If so, which one? Is there any provision for cooperation between the committee and Secretary of State Sleurs as regards the alimony calculator?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u66	Mr Minister, following the law of 19 March 2010, a committee on maintenance contributions was indeed set up. I was there when the law was passed. The then Secretary of State for Family Policy stated here in our house that this committee would only be necessary if no coherence and transparency were achieved in the case law after the Objectivation Act. The Secretary of State put it as follows: "First of all, the magistrates should be obliged to give more detailed reasons for their decisions. That alone should be a major step forward. The evaluation committee must then check whether the new law is working properly, on the one hand, and evaluate the various methods of calculation, on the other." The agreement that was made then was that the evaluation committee should not look for an ideal calculation model, if the objectification works properly. What is the state of play in the work of the committee? Has an evaluation been made of the law of 19 March 2010? What are the results of that? Today, six years after its entry into force, can you mention some consequences for maintenance contributions? Are there currently higher maintenance contributions? Will the committee evaluate the various methods of calculation? What exactly is the commission's mission? The Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Mrs Sleurs, herself stated in July last year that she had commissioned the University of Antwerp to develop a model of calculation that includes all factors, including the income of the two partners and the situation of the child. Is this mission entirely in addition to the work of the committee or how should we reconcile one with the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u67	Ms Uyttersprot, Ms Lahaye-Battheu, having regard to the Royal Decree of 7 February 2014 establishing the composition and functioning of the Maintenance Contributions Committee, the effective and alternate members of the Committee were appointed by royal decree of 10 August 2015 on a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The committee has already met twice. The first meetings focused on the start of the committee with the appointment of a chairman and vice-president, the drawing up of internal rules and arrangements for work under Rules 5 and 13 of the ECSC Treaty. The next meeting would be held on 17 June. The Committee first decided to draw up an inventory of all existing data, both nationally and internationally. In accordance with Article 1322 of the Code of Justice, the Committee shall be responsible for drawing up recommendations for the budget of the maintenance and education costs of the children and the respective contributions of each of the parents. She does not have as specific assignment to produce an alimony calculator or calculation model. Nor is an evaluation of the law of 19 March 2010 itself provided for only an evaluation of the recommendations made by the committee. This does not prevent the King from drawing up a method of calculation to facilitate the application of the recommendations. However, it seems too early to do so. The committee has just started its work. As regards the elaboration of the calculation model in collaboration with the University of Antwerp, it is advisable to ask the question to colleague Sleurs. The cooperation between the committee and Mr Sleurs was not formally established. However, such cooperation could be envisaged by the committee. This could be suggested at the next meeting of the committee by my representative, who takes part in the meetings in an advisory capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u68	Minister, I think it is very important that the calculation of a maintenance contribution should be as transparent as possible for all interested parties. That objective calculation is indeed the task of the committee, which identifies all important factors such as income and costs. It is clear that the recommendations may result in an alimony calculator. For the calculation model that will serve that purpose, I address myself to Secretary of State Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u69	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in explaining the commission's mandate and the state of play. As far as the calculation model is concerned, I would like to remind you that we have held a number of hearings here in our home in connection with the discussion of the Objectivation Act. One and the same case was tested against the different calculation models in our country, such as the Renard method and the Tremmery method. On the basis of the same case, we came to different results each time. At that time we decided not to introduce a calculation model into the law here in Belgium. The situation in the Netherlands is different. That is where the magistrates themselves have developed a calculation model, which appears to work. I am not convinced that the situation has changed today, six years later. Personally, therefore, I do not believe in an unambiguous model for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I know that you were on the scene yesterday and that you were able to see things for yourself. I had to do it with the photos I could see in the newspapers and the digital press. I've been at the Turnhout counter for years, so I know Merksplas a little bit. I know the state of things back then. I can imagine that the situation has certainly not improved. Last weekend, unrest broke out in Merksplas prison, where 170 inmates refused to return to their cells. Then it's hallucinating what happened there. They charmed penitentiary officers with stones, destroyed windows and set fire to furniture and cells. The peace could not return until after the deployment of special police units. Even in other prisons there would have been smaller problems and there was also some unrest in Antwerp, but especially the situation in the prison at Merksplas spanned the crown this weekend. Minister, I have a number of questions on this subject, as far as we have not already read it in the media. What exactly happened in prison? You were able to see it yesterday and perhaps hear it well from those involved and those responsible there. What exactly was destroyed? How much damage is it? What's the cost of it? How many cells are currently unavailable in Merksplas prison due to the destruction and arson? How many inmates were transferred from Merksplas prison after the riots? What prisons were they transferred to? Only to Antwerp or to other prisons as well? Did any of the prison staff get hurt in the rebellion? Did anything happen in other prisons? Maybe you can't answer me the next question right away. If so many prisoners have to be moved to another prison as a result of a rebellion, and since the contract with Tilburg has been terminated, I wonder if it would not be an option to continue to receive prisoners. If we continue to embezzle more prisoners to other prisons because of such situations, the problem will eventually move, because it will increase the population in other prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u71	Mr President, the unrest began on Sunday evening around 5.30 p.m., when prisoners did not want to return to their cells after a walk. The police were informed of that. Around 20 h 30 a.m. a fire was started in the adjacent pavilions, which are close to the walkway and where a number of interns are housed. The staff could be brought to safety and with the assistance of the police, the Red Cross, the fire department, the Civil Protection, present and voluntary staff and the Executive Board the situation has been tried to stabilise. The walkway was cleared around 04 am 00 Sunday morning. The prisoners who were in the affected pavilions were also finally brought to safety. By 06:00, all the prisoners were locked in a cell or in a secure common room. The police thoroughly combed the site with the deployment of a helicopter with a heat camera. Of course, a lot of glass damage, smoke damage and fire damage has been done to a number of pavilions. Two pavilions, together accounting for 130 inmates, have not yet been released by the fire department. On the walkway there are repairs needed at the pavement and the gates. The Regie has started with the most urgent work in the field of security. 263 places are currently unavailable. After the cleaning and repair work that is urgent, some 130 sites will be re-used within a dozen days. On Sundays and Mondays 156 prisoners were transferred, distributed among various establishments, namely Root, Antwerp, Hasselt, Beveren, Turnhout, Mechelen, Leuven-Help, Leuven-Central, Bruges, Dendermonde, Oudenaarde and Ghent. There was therefore a great solidarity between the Flemish prisons, so that the overpopulation in the other prisons did not increase too much. Two officers were wounded by shrapnel. The local reception team and the Red Cross were responsible for the reception of these officials. I visited the Merksplas prison yesterday to evaluate the situation and express my gratitude, among other things, to the local authorities and to the staff, as well as to the management for their efforts during those difficult times. Two internees have also been seriously injured by the development of smoke. They are currently being nursed in a hospital specializing in burns. Among the internees, a number of people have been severely traumatized, because they have obviously immediately withdrawn into the building, but have been the victims of the development of smoke. In the region of Noord, the prisoners of Antwerp and Dendermonde also refused to enter after the walk. The intervention would have gone very well there, without any damage being done. In the prison of Antwerp, the situation is under control and an inmate consultation is planned. The most important thing is that, within the framework of Master Plan III, the government will decide as soon as possible to start the renovation works needed to make Merksplas prison a decent place for 400 prisoners. You should not forget that the population of Merksplas has changed significantly in recent times, because 170 interned people have been transferred to Ghent. This has led to an important population of short-term punishments, with which Merksplas was previously much less familiar, being housed there. In addition to many other reasons and reasons, that is perhaps one of the reasons why it has been able to rise up to such a rebellion. However, taking the situation into account in terms of causality is too early, despite all the discussions I had yesterday. The havoc is terrible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are referring to the causality of the fact that it may not have been by chance the first really hot weekend in terms of weather conditions. When we look at the times when prisons are difficult, there is often a link to the good weather. I can imagine, if several people are trapped in a cell and the temperature outside is high, but this is completely aside. Besides, in Merksplas, I think there's more to it than just the sun shining. I am pleased to hear that you intend to use your master plan III to speed it up and give priority to the renovation of the prison at Merksplas. I think this is important. Don't get me wrong, I don't want to give any prisoners any ideas, but in that sense, at least the events have led to the possibility of dealing with things. Since things were broken down, it really needs to be renewed. That is not evident and it is a pity that people had to get hurt and that such things had to happen. By the way, I agree with your words of respect for the prison director, but not just for the people of Merksplas. I have seen and heard in the last few days that strikes involve a lot of directors and take over tasks, and that is something that has already been forgotten. Not by you, Minister, but in general it is often forgotten that there are other prison staff than just the penitentiary. There are also board members who take over a lot of tasks. I would like to take this opportunity to give the management, not only of Merksplas but also of other prisons, a compliment for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u73	Mr Minister, my question concerns the use of the army in certain prisons in Brussels and Wallonia. The prison staff cease and when the penitentiary officials cease, the police should in principle take over their security mission. He doesn't like that, but there is no other way, as there is no minimum service. The government has now decided that soldiers will also have to contribute to law enforcement in prisons during the strike. In which prisons are there military deployments? How many soldiers are we talking about? I think I read earlier in a newspaper that it would be about 120 soldiers. Sometimes the answers come a little early. How are they distributed among the prisons? What will be the concrete tasks of the military? Do they have the same powers as the police officers who take over prison surveillance? If not, who does what? Of course, it will depend on the negotiations, but how long will the military take over these tasks? Does that mean that fewer policemen are needed, Minister, because the military come to give a hand to guarantee the service in prisons? Do you have a view of the cost of the military deployment? The next thing is for the Home Secretary, but if you know, I'd be happy to take it with me. Do you have any idea how many policemen and man-hours have so far had to be deployed to replace the prison staff in the strikes? What is the cost of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u74	Mr President, Minister, the current situation in our prisons reflects the consequences of irresponsible policy. We have already had the opportunity several times in plenary to denounce both the working conditions of prison officers and the conditions of detention of prisoners! You wanted to be extremely reassuring and you had the file in your hands! Today, prisons are almost in the hands of the military! I deliberately choose this shocking and exaggerated formula to force you to take the measure of the choices your government poses by imposing austerity and disregarding the concertation! Yet there is no miracle formula, the prison officers keep repeating it. The rationalisation of the staff does not allow us to meet the requirements of a minimum quality prison policy or to exercise our profession in good conditions. Strikes are not mood movements, minister, but the ultimate way to try to bring claims to fruition. The prison staff is at a standstill and has had the opportunity to let you know in the last few days. It cannot carry out its tasks with fewer staff. And beyond their personal situation, it is also the situation of detainees that is deplorable. The courts and tribunals have reminded the State very recently, some of the detainees are living in inhuman and degrading conditions that may be tantamount to torture, and this is no exaggeration. In the face of this situation, what is the government doing? He sent the army to prisons when it was already limited in its human, budgetary and material resources by Operation Vigilant Guardian. With this inadequate solution, the government shows us how disdainful it is of public service and social consultation. Does this militarization of our public services not sufficiently demonstrate that government policy is inadequate? Can he at least, in view of the absurdity of the situation, with the military in the prisons, understand the usefulness of his measures of blind savings? You had the opportunity to express yourself on different sets and you made a kind of confession of failure. The fact of using the army is a flight forward. This is not his role and the military have certainly not received the adequate and necessary training to manage detainees in an already tense situation. How do you justify the requisition of the army in prisons without dealing with the fundamental questions of the means allocated to the public services of which prison staff are part? Do you think you have exhausted all possible solutions before resorting to such an extreme measure? Can you tell us more about the conditions for such an army requisition, both human, budgetary, logistical and legal? How long will the military be present? What will be the military's missions in this context? Are they in a position to fully assume all the tasks imposed on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u75	Minister, I have a few questions about the presence of soldiers in our Brussels and Walloon prisons. How many military personnel are present in prisons? How are they distributed among the different institutions? What specific tasks have been assigned to them? Under what authority do the military carry out these missions? We know that police officers who sometimes operate in prisons are not allowed to carry their weapons. I guess the same goes for the military. What are the already visible results of their presence in prisons? When will the first assessment take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u76	The strike in our prisons has been going on for some time now. In the event of a strike, our legislation provides for the assistance of the local police and then the federal police to ensure the service. In addition, we have called on civil protection, volunteers and professionals, and on the Red Cross. I am more than grateful to those services, because they, along with the willing and the executives, to which you referred earlier, Mrs De Wit, have been truly heroic in the difficult circumstances that are theirs, and have tried to offer a dignified regime to our inmates. As the strike lasted longer than we expected, following the draft protocol agreement we had negotiated with the trade unions last Friday, we felt that it would be useful, on the basis of Article 111 of the general police law, to call on the assistance of the armed forces, as provided for in Article 111, to the Belgian army, so that certain activities could be reorganised in our prisons. This is positive for the situation of the detainees. It is welcomed in the prisons concerned and may help to ease tensions. Very concretely, military personnel are currently deployed in the prisons of Lantin, Saint-Gilles and Forest. It goes without saying that they are not equipped with their intra-mural firearms. Their task is to support the police in guaranteeing security and human living conditions in these institutions. Their mission is primarily humanitarian, which the government has emphasized since the beginning. They are therefore placed under the direct authority of the police. This is done, inter alia, through the support of the police in the supervision of prisoners and the protection of staff performing tasks in prisons. This may again mean undertaking a series of activities. The military is deployed to support and alleviate the tasks of the police in prisons. The aim is, on the one hand, to meet the most pressing needs and, on the other hand, to release police personnel who can thus be assigned to tasks dedicated to the maintenance or restoration of public order and security in prisons. This makes it possible to deploy 40 police officers less per day. The military will be deployed as long as they are requested by the police. It is the Commissioner-General who is progressing on the basis of Article 111. Today no exact timing can be given, but the next evaluation is scheduled around 18 May. We cannot therefore give an assessment of the overall cost picture. Mr Jambon, the Minister for the Interior, can, of course, give you more precise details about the police's involvement. I can tell you that at the moment we are trying to guarantee in every prison the minimum occupation in the event of a strike as defined, with all the resources available to us. Those minimum resources are for short-term strikes. We are trying to get above that, because, of course, we have been on strike for a long time. For example, in a number of prisons where this has not been the case until recently, another day walk can now be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do believe that the military can carry out useful tasks in prisons. While the military are doing what they have to do, they are getting an assignment and cannot refuse it, there was protest today before the barracks. That's what really disturbed me. The penitentiary officials who do not do their job and exercise their right to strike, which is their right, are therefore going to protest to the military who have taken over their duties. The cynicism of that gradually disturbs me. The military are only doing what they're told. They are only doing something to improve the living conditions of the prisoners. I have the impression that the strikers in all the proceedings and all the discussions are gradually forgetting that the prisoners are the victims within the prison walls. Things are taking too long. I really hope that you will find a solution quickly and that we will get rid of the bizarre situation, with the use of police and military in prison. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u78	Mr Minister, of course, the military can carry out certain missions in prisons, but not the missions of the prison officers who are trained for this purpose. We made it clear to you. They are there to ensure a minimum of security for people working in prisons, but I agree with Mrs De Wit on this subject, and this solution must cease. We have to find another one. I visited Saint-Gilles prison this morning. That's right, since yesterday, the detainees have benefited from exits. As a result, wing A made an exit in the preau. The Aile B is promised a pre-departure today, but it depends on the number which is decided in the morning by the Commissioner-General who comes to ask how many people are needed. In fact, nothing is safe! The organization is established on a day-to-day basis and can generate tensions, because what was planned for some inmates yesterday is not for others today. This is unacceptable! These people live in inhumane conditions, both staff and detainees. You've had the opportunity to go there. A solution must be found as quickly as possible to safeguard human rights and enable these prison officers to work in acceptable conditions. The military and the police have nothing to do with it, especially since they have additional missions. We know, since the attacks, they've been put on all the sauces. The solution is temporary and must remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u79	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers on how this is organized. Everyone wants this to stop as soon as possible. I don't doubt you're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u81	Mr President, the press has revealed that, at the end of last year, it was estimated that more than 60 % of the criminal fines could not be recovered by the State, corresponding to a sum of EUR 158 million. It would appear that the situation is the most critical in large cities, with a rate of perception below 30% in Brussels, Liège, Antwerp and Charleroi. You will agree, this situation is challenging. In addition to the State's loss of profits, this situation is also conducive to nurturing a sense of impunity among some offenders. However, and it should be stressed, the public authorities obviously did not remain inactive in the face of this problem, by launching an action plan in 2014 for a more effective collection of criminal fines. It is also my responsibility that a specific application called "FIRST", aimed at further automation of case processing, is also being used at the present time. Regrettably, there still seems to be a number of efforts to be made to deal with this problematic situation. Improving the perception system seems to us to be very important, and we can only encourage you to continue efforts in this direction. In this capacity, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm to us the information about the collection of these fines? Are the reported figures proven? What initiatives have been taken to improve the system for collecting criminal fines in the coming months? What about today's action plan launched in 2014? Have you conducted an evaluation of its implementation and, if so, what lessons have been learned to improve the tools available to your services? Finally, can you tell us whether you have set yourself a target for a better collection of fines, in the light of the 2015 figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u82	Mr President, Mr Calomne, for the confirmation of the figures, I invite you to address the Minister of Finance, since the collection and recovery of criminal fines is his responsibility. However, I would like to describe the context and its data. First of all, they relate to recognized rights. This means that a fine is included in the statistics from the moment it was imposed. As instalment payment plans or bankruptcies are processed, payments are charged to the year in which the charge was recognized. It follows that the actual percentages of collection are only stable after about 5 years and that those relating to the older accounting years are closer to reality and closer to cruising speed than the percentages relating to the most recent years. In addition, a distinction must be made between traffic fines and other fines. 89% of traffic fines are immediately collected on the basis of the prompt request for payment and its reminder. 5% are collected after a transaction proposal. The remaining 6% are fines imposed by the police judge and Finances receive between 30 and 74% depending on the Region. Other fines are those imposed by the correctional judge. It is very common for the offender to stay in prison and therefore have no income. A third element affects the percentage of collection: imputation rules. The payment is initially charged against legal costs and the victim assistance fund. It is only then that it is charged against the fine itself. This distorts the perception that judicial costs and contributions to victim support funds are relatively well received, while fines themselves are to a lesser extent. The coordinating body to improve the perception of pecuniary penalties facilitates dialogue on the computerisation of data flows from justice to finance and in the opposite direction. A detailed file will soon be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate. It must ensure the computerisation of data flows at the level of justice and strengthen the means of forcing the payment of fines. Thus, the legislation on the order for payment will be improved by introducing an enforceable title that will speed up the collection by Finance. This measure avoids the need to initiate lengthy proceedings before the police judge. Finance will adapt the legislation on the use of ANPR scanners so that they can also be used for the collection of criminal fines other than traffic fines. A circular governs the implementation of the subsidiary sentence of imprisonment that applies when the Finances cease recovery because the offender persists in refusing to pay the fine. At the same time, the Prosecutor's Office is also using the data on fines in the Finance databases to better understand the problem of recidivism and to be able to determine the sanction based on the offender's past behaviour with respect to the payment of fines. As part of the implementation of the Crossborder Directives, trading systems are being set up with the aim of improving the recovery of fines owed by foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as statistics are concerned, I will address a written question to your colleague from Finance. I have taken note of the various measures that have been taken and those that are in the process of being considered in an attempt to improve the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u84	Minister, on April 17, you announced that the victims of the March terrorist attacks will be eligible for financial assistance through the Victims Fund. This support should take the form of a grant of up to EUR 15 000, which should be requested from the single point of contact set up within the Fund. In addition, it was also announced that the Government would work on initiatives to facilitate compensation and care for hospitalizations, without waiting for the sometimes long delays of insurance agencies. At the outset, let me welcome these measures, which obviously go in a positive direction. However, I would like to ask you the following questions. What steps have been taken to proactively inform victims and their families about the assistance provided to them? Have any partnerships been established with hospital services or with any other relevant agency? How will the communication chain materialize for the benefit of the target audience? Could you provide us with more details on the measures the government has taken to facilitate compensation and care for hospitalizations? What is the expected timetable for the implementation of these measures? Finally, if I believe the information that I have been able to read, citizens will be able to contact the contact point through an email address and a telephone number. However, it appears that the latter uses prefix 0471, which is specific to mobile phone networks. Could you clarify this point of detail? Moreover, why not have preferred a free number in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u85	Mr Calomne, it was made available to the victims of the terrorist attacks, with a wide dissemination in the media, a single telephone number and an e-mail address allowing victims and their relatives to obtain complete information on the procedure to be followed for applying for financial assistance from the Commission for financial assistance to victims. Since the establishment of the telephone line and email address for the victims of the attacks, nearly 100 emails have been recorded and responded to. In addition, more than 60 telephone calls were recorded as at 2 May 2016, and 25 requests for assistance from the Commission were communicated. In addition, a proactive collaboration has been established between the Justice FPS, through the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence, the Social Security FPS and the Institute of Veterans of War. In consultation, the single point of contact set up is assisted by two administrative assistants responsible for contacting victims on the basis of the official lists drawn up, to clarify the possibility of financial intervention by the Commission for financial assistance to victims. The social workers of the Institute of Veterans of War can then, at the request of the victims contacted, go to the victims' homes and help them prepare for the submission of a request for financial assistance. These administrative assistants and social workers have been trained in the area of victim financial assistance in order to be able to respond as quickly and as fully as possible to the questions of the victims of the attacks. Regular contacts have already been established since the day after the attacks with the various hospitals where victims remain and where they remain. Social services are proving to be a valuable link between victims and the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. It should be recalled that the State's system of financial intervention for victims of terrorist attacks, as well as for victims of intentional acts of violence, is based on the principle of collective solidarity and the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission's intervention is financial aid and not compensation or full compensation for the damage. For its part, the subsidiarity principle confirms that the Commission's intervention is wasteful, underlining the importance of priority compensation for damage by the insurance companies concerned, e.g. airport, STIB, insurer-law and private insurance. Nevertheless, aware of the seriousness of many situations and of the urgency for victims and their families to be supported in the face of a tragedy without common measure that deeply affects the victims and their families morally, physically, psychologically and financially, the federal government has decided that the Victim Assistance Commission can grant urgent financial assistance in the form of an advance, to those victims of the attacks who have been hospitalized or who are still hospitalized. The advance was also favoured for the relatives of the deceased victims. The first effective decisions on financial assistance are expected by mid-May 2016. In order to respond to the urgency of the situation to be able to have a special line with the Commission's single contact point, telephone number 0471/123.124 was opened on Wednesday 20 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. This issue came to light again this morning as a victim filed a complaint against STIB. So we are really at the very heart of the problem. I am pleased to hear that you have this question in your hands. I'll come back to you if new questions arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u87	Questions No 11270 and No 11282 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u88	Minister, the mayor of Forest has recently taken the decision to strictly enforce a communal decree prohibiting the presence of a trio of detainees in the cells of the Forest prison. In addition, he indicated that, in view of the current state of the prison and the risks to the physical integrity of visitors and detainees, he intended to take all legal and regulatory measures to close the prison in question. Mr Minister, no one can deny the current difficulties of the prison world in general, and of Belgian prisons in particular. However, it should be stressed that the government is implementing the masterplan prisons, which provides for infrastructure renovations and also the construction of prisons, as is the case with the Haren prison project in the Brussels Region. However, the scenario of a closure by the mayor of Forest would very likely complicate the situation even further and put the construction projects in difficulty. What is the government's position on the intentions of the Mayor of Forest? What measures do you intend to take if the prison is effectively closed by the latter? Can you tell us whether consultations have been undertaken between the municipal and federal authorities to find a solution in the short term? What measures do you intend to take to improve the situation in the Forest prison and to resolve the difficulties as relayed by the forest mayor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u89	I know the situation in Forest very well. I believe that I am aware of the difficult and unacceptable conditions there. It is precisely for this reason that, in the past, the decision was taken to close this facility. According to the initial schedule, the new prison in Haren should have been ready this year. All kinds of reasons beyond our control, mainly due to procedures, have resulted in a significant delay in the project. I can only repeat my desire and my will that all parties to the case take it to heart, with all the urgency that is necessary. As far as I am concerned, I do not see this as a political issue, but as a real problem that concerns the quality of life of almost 2,000 people, both personnel and detainees. The extreme time limit to which you refer is now exceeded. In the meantime, detainees are no longer placed by three in Forest, with one exception, at the specific request of the detainees concerned, and this will remain so. The mayor also visited the site to see the situation. The interview was constructive. I hope that he will continue to maintain close contact with my services and myself, as is currently the case, so that we can address all problems, big and small. In the meantime, the intention is for the Régie des Bâtiments to carry out the repair and maintenance work on an ongoing basis. A consultation between the Commission and Justice will take place next week, to monitor and discuss this issue in detail, because it is clear that the necessary maintenance and stability work is of high priority. It is not excluded that more important work is required, given the condition of the building. I will not hesitate to speak to my colleague in charge of the Régie and to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u90	Minister, thank you for this reassuring answer. I hope that the consultations and contacts you have with the mayor of Forest will remain positive and constructive and that we will not come to this ultimate solution which would not facilitate things already sufficiently complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u91	Question No 11371 by Mrs Stéphanie Thoron is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u92	Minister, although of course I would very much like to have an answer to my question on the guarantee of services, one of my questions is a question of the number of days off. I understand from the people of your cabinet that postponement was requested to answer this question. If that is no longer the case, I would like to ask my question. If you can answer me, I would like to ask the question, but I had understood that this was not yet possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u93	I don't know if we're talking about the same thing, but I have one more question from you about protocol No. 351. That's what the chairman was talking about. That's what I'm done with. I also have a question about the staffing in our Belgian prisons. That's what I'm done with. But you were talking about days off from a trade union. As far as that is concerned, I have no draft reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u94	Then I'll ask this question. As you know, Minister, the federal government agreement has been incorporated into the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unhuman Treatment following the formal notice given by the protocol agreement No. 351 of the Sectoral Committee III and Justice of 19 April 2010, a guaranteed service is introduced into the prison system. I remember, by the way, the origin of that protocol. Back then, Minister of Justice De Clerck was also faced with a terrible number of strike days. That's how the protocol came into being. Minister, I have a number of questions. What is the state of play with regard to the review of this protocol agreement, which has been announced for a very long time, together with the trade unions? I have repeatedly asked your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom. She constantly replied to me that the evaluation would be complete by the summer. After two years, I asked her what summer she was talking about. I hear today that the evaluation isn't here yet, and we're back a few summers away. So I would very much have liked you to give me an update on that evaluation. In addition, I would have liked to have heard about the state of play of the social dialogue you are conducting with regard to the introduction of this guaranteed service in the prison system. It is, of course, very difficult in the current context. Do you hope to conclude this consultation successfully and to be able to introduce the guaranteed services in consultation with the trade unions? The third question related to this concerns the number of strike days, which was ultimately the reason for the protocol's emergence in 2010. Can you tell me how many strike days there were in 2014, 2015 and 2016 within the Belgian prison system? How many of these prisons, and in which prisons, were not in compliance with the Agreement in Protocol Agreement No. 351?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u95	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the evaluation of the protocol agreement No. 351 was completed on 13 May 2015 through the mediation of the social mediator for the public sector of the FOD WASO, in consultation between the administration and the various trade unions. We have reached an agreement to determine various punctual adjustments to the existing protocol, such as the preliminary procedure. A conflict handling and incident management procedure was also added to the protocol. The revised protocol still needs to be formalised by the Sectoral Committee III. Immediately after the evaluation of Protocol No. 351 work was started to bring about the creation of a guaranteed service in consultation with the trade unions. On 22 June 2015, the meeting concluded that the discussions should be continued through mediation. The first plenary conciliation meeting was held on 12 October 2015, followed by meetings on 25 November 2015 and 15 January 2016. On 9 May last we were supposed to continue the discussions on the guaranteed service, but the current situation was different and the discussion was about the current situation in prisons, and in particular about the strike and the protocol that we proposed to the various trade unions on Friday. In 2014, there were 22 797 strike days for nine local actions and twelve national strike actions. Of these local actions, six were not according to Protocol No. 351 have been initiated. These were spontaneous actions in Ghent, one day, Mechelen, one day, Hasselt, two days, Merksplas, one day and Sint-Gillis, three days. In 2015, there were, I might say, only 15 451 strike days, of which seven were local actions and nine were national strikes. In four of the local actions, Protocol No. 351 not followed. That was so in Mechelen, one day, in Beveren, two actions of one day each and in Bruges, one day. For 2016 until the end of April we are already at 7 803 days. This is twice a spontaneous action of one day in Antwerp and in Mechelen. Following the national strike on 26 April, there is a spontaneous continuation of this action for all French-speaking prisons, including Saint-Gilles, which is still in progress. In Beveren there have also been four days of action, following the national strike. This continuation is not covered by Protocol No. 351 and not by any other strike commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the figures, which I will take a quiet look at. I welcome the evolution towards a reduction in the number of strike days, although I think that what is going on now, with figures up to the end of April, can change that, although I really hope not. I'm not an opponent of social consultation. On the contrary, if a guaranteed service is to be considered, social dialogue with the penitentiary staff must be given every opportunity. You have to admit with me that it's starting to take a very long time. Just because this is not yet there, today we are in the difficult state of the prison system that we know, with the use of the police, with the use of the army, with procedures of detainees because minimal human conditions can no longer be guaranteed. Minister, if this is no longer possible through conciliation, then we must take steps here in the Chamber. It is in the coalition agreement, but I hope that you will be in love with those efforts. If you succeed, with all your current agreements and consultations, in order to achieve that, the better. If it doesn't work, we have to do it for them. You must agree with me: it is not possible to do this anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u97	Minister, it has now been at least two weeks since the Brussels and Walloon prison guards were on strike. I think that all of Belgium knows that the anger of prison officers is deep and touch on a lot of aspects. This strike is particularly well followed. Some even call it historical. The determination is powerful. The agents denounce their working conditions and your rationalization plans. They also believe that their claims are also in the interest of the detainees. In their focus is therefore your rationalization plan, which results in a downsizing of up to 20%. Similarly, the schedule between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. poses a problem, as they will receive fewer bonuses, but it also affects inmates, as their activities and visits will be limited. Married prisoners also state that, in view of their working hours, they can only see them after 5:00 p.m. On 6 May, a protocol was concluded, but the strike continues. The guards even believe that the flexibility bonus will serve as a "vaseline" to pass the rationalization plan. Do you confirm that the May 6 protocol maintains the rationalization plan? Will it further reduce the number of guards? Do you confirm that there is currently a shortage of prison staff to perform all the work in a dignified and effective manner? That's what prison officers have been saying for a long time. Will the change in working hours, given the lack of staff, result in less night work for guards and less work for inmates? Finally, does an increase in the number of guards not constitute a necessity for dealing with the challenges of Belgian prisons, both for the guards and for the detainees? We know how badly these institutions are considered at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u98	I know you're working hard to stop this situation. We hope that it will end as soon as possible. What have been the thoughts on the resumption of work and how will it be organized to ensure the safety of guards and detainees? Have any specific instructions been communicated to the establishments at this stage? Some guards want a systematic search of prisoners' cells by the police before the guards return to the facility. Is this envisaged? It is known that walks are often conducive to the actions of inmates. Will special precautions also be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously not the first question this afternoon on prisons. So I risk repeating myself a little for those who were present, but I also risk not hearing everything from those who have just arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u100	Are you talking about questions asked by colleagues? They weren't attached?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u101	There are five attached questions that are now being asked. I'm going to try to synthesize without disappointing you too much. It is always difficult to know why a strike starts, especially when it is spontaneous. I do not wish to speculate on this because I would probably not be complete on the number of causes present. Through the draft protocol that I proposed to the unions last Friday, I tried to understand as much as possible the situation of the strikers. As a first step, the unions committed themselves to defending with me the Memorandum of Understanding with their members. The exercise of optimisation to work otherwise is not intended to reduce the number of guards in each prison to 90 per cent, nor to reduce the capacity of prisons to 90 per cent, but to seek, by methods appropriate to the regime of the prison in question, its infrastructure, its seniority, the appropriate framework for this situation. In a protocol supported by the unions in December 2014, which included seven subjects and seven working groups, it was agreed to do this exercise of rationalization, of theoretical optimisation for each prison. This exercise was started and, contrary to what has been said, its aim was not to say for Lantin, that is 90%, for Marche, that is 90%, for Leuze-en-Hainaut, that is 90%. No! In dialogue with several working groups within each prison, a framework was sought that was adapted to the circumstances, regimes, seniority and specific infrastructure by seeking new working methods. They focus on three things. First, the concentration in the day (10h00 to 20h00) of the activities, without deletion. Second, the exercise focused on more effective incumbency. Thirdly, it dealt with the reduction of movements by new equipment. For example in Marche or in Leuze-en-Hainaut, the fact that there are telephones or microwaves in a cell makes it possible to optimize the movements and thus a less presence of guards between 20h00 and 22h00 or 24h00. That is what this exercise was about, which has been fairly well received in some prisons and to a lesser extent in others. I proposed on Fridays to the unions, with their agreement initially, but subject to base approval, to freeze the savings this year and to recruit 405 people to make it possible to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the rationalization exercise. I proposed to post-implementation as soon as possible in 2017. The freezing of savings was exactly – if I understood correctly, but one can always misunderstand – what I had understood as a demand from the unions. Therefore, I did not want to impose this measure at all, but to take the necessary time. It is for this purpose that we have carried out this exercise. The "vaseline" you're talking about is a product that is obviously very effective in certain circumstances. It was strongly demanded by the unions. Of course, it does not bear fruit...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u103	You're the one who used that term. That's the risk you took. You're the intellectual owner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u104	I used it in a certain sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u105	This measure was strongly supported by trade unions. This amounts to EUR 4.8 gross for certain hours in order to compensate for the potential loss of salary that could follow the implementation of certain optimisation exercises. I thought I'd do good that way. So the metaphor you're using, which I fully appreciate because of its literary character, doesn't exactly match my impression when I was talking with the unions. These were the two points that were essential in view of the exact demands I had understood. It goes without saying, Mr Van Hees, that we still have an overpopulation problem. I've never denied it in the last eighteen months. I have been constantly working towards a reduction of staff and have managed to reduce them to 11 thousand. It is an overpopulation of 10% relative to capacity, much less than two years ago. It's not final. I want to reduce more and I never hid from it. In all my bills, I have taken steps to do so, because it is really necessary. And I will continue to do so by submitting very concrete proposals to the government at the end of the week. Secondly, it is clear that we have a problem with modern infrastructure. Those who visit Forest, what I have done for a long time, those who visit Merksplas, who visit some Walloon prisons, will obviously be disappointed. I met last Monday with the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. I had already met him on several occasions during the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe. I understand that the state of some infrastructure is outdated and very disappointing. The Masterplan III, which I have been preparing for a long time, will in any case be approved in the coming weeks by the government. But it is clear that we are somewhat behind schedule as a result of the additional deadlines for Haren and Termonde, for reasons of environmental permits and procedures. Be sure that I am as upset as the parliamentarians! At the infrastructure level, essential things will have to be done and renovations will have to be done in some institutions in the very short term. I don't know. I will, in the weeks and days to come, be proactive about this, as far as possible. As far as social dialogue is concerned, I will of course try to pursue it. We had another very constructive meeting last Monday. I understand that the unions also want to continue. But know that the situation is not obvious because we have different agendas. I try to meet each other's requests as much as possible, but there is also a need for equality in treatment. I thought gel was a solution that could suit everyone. We have apparently been wrong, I deeply regret it, because I have done everything possible to reach this agreement with the support of the entire government. At the moment, the situation is difficult, but I will always look for solutions to remedy it. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I have answered your questions in this way and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u106	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I feel prudent. I understand that you are careful because the social movement exists: it has already pushed you back and it will perhaps make you back even further. But, apparently, you're sending the bullet back to the government. I warned you in plenary last Thursday that the movement was probably far from over. The facts made me right. You say it's hard to know why a strike starts. No, I don't think it was hard to guess in that case. It was not certain that the strike would arise, but when prison officers find themselves in an unbearable situation and come with further rationalization, there is a good chance that a strike will start. You say that this rationalization must solve the problems. I think it is above all a budgetary approach. Like your government colleagues, you're pretending to do better with less. However, we see in all areas that with less, we do less. You said you thought you'd do the prison officers good with vaseline. I think it's a historical phrase. But no, you don't do them good; they don't agree and they express it very well. You say that, in some prisons, the officers agreed and, in others, no. Are you talking about Flanders or the French-speaking part of the country? Perhaps the level of discontent is slightly different from one prison to another, but I see a great unity between all the prisons, all of which remain on strike. I wonder to what extent this is not a new way of dividing the movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u107	I was talking about the country. I'm still talking about the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u108	Then you opposed Flanders to Wallonia and Brussels. There are objective differences between the situations in these prisons. But I also hear discontent in Flanders. What you were proposing to them, besides the "vaseline" bonus, was to postpone, to freeze the plans. That means you don't give up your plans. The prison officers obviously want you to give up your plans once and for all, not to freeze the situation and come a few years later with the same proposal. You tell us that infrastructure presents some problems of modernity. It's an understatement, minister! What should be done in this case? Investing, that is to say paying out money! We must stop breaking public services and start investing in them, the opposite of what this government is doing! It takes money at the same time to satisfy the demands of the guards but also of the detainees to have prisons worthy of the 21st century in Belgium, which is not the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u109	Minister, you were questioned in the afternoon about prisons and you managed to concentrate your remarks without necessarily repeating yourself and recalling the essential elements. This approach has existed in your head for some time to understand the whole issue. It is a pity that we are being blocked from concrete proposals and the effort made by this government, with regard to prison overcrowding, is not sufficiently emphasized. Indeed, you are quoting figures, according to which the prison population has increased to 11,000, but if it were to be passed on as a percentage of the decrease in overcrowding, it would be enormous. One can make the figures speak in one way or another, sometimes take the percentages, sometimes take the raw figures, but it is a very tangible reality. It is not sufficiently implemented and I hear that you still have proposals in this area, in addition to the steps that have been taken and which do not produce their immediate effects. A law also takes time to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u110	Questions Nos 11458 and 11459 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u111	Minister, I am trying to understand the record of the prisons and to find out what is going on. That is why I have already asked many different questions about many different issues. In the meantime, I have read a few things in the press, and you have given some information on another question, which was not mine, but I didn't write it down because it was too fast. The remarks made by the striking prison officials included the fact that prisons have been extinct, that they have to work in difficult circumstances and the shortage of staff. There is no discussion about that. On the other hand, the number of prisoners has now fallen by a thousand as a result of the government's efforts. What is the current staff of the penitentiary staff? Can you split that up for the different prisons in our country? The factor of absenteeism is another story. What is the ratio to the number of inmates? I heard from the media that there's one guard per 1.63 inmates. Is that the right number?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u112	On 2 May 2016, a total of 9 383 employees, representing 8 176.18 full-time equivalents, were employed in Belgian prisons. Of these, 7 767, 6 766,25 full-time equivalents, monitoring staff and technical staff. That means there are 0.61 full-time equivalents to guards for each prisoner. I will give you the requested breakdown and make it available to the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u113	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It seemed interesting to me to be able to put everything in a proper perspective. They always say measuring is knowing. I'll take a good look at the right numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u114	Mr President, Minister, Belgium is regularly condemned for ill-treatment because of the state of disrepair in prisons and overcrowding – we come back to it. The Human Rights League, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the International Prison Observatory have been denouncing this situation for years. For example, the Ligue des droits de l'homme denounced the arrest for eight months of any collective activity (sport, relaxation, courses, worship, library, speech group) in Saint-Gilles prison for reasons of austerity. I would point out that there was no strike at that time. With 134 prisoners for 100 places in 2013 and 129 the following year, Belgium is ranked second among the countries with the largest prison overcrowding in Europe, behind Hungary, according to statistics from the Institute of Criminalology and Criminal Law of Lausanne on behalf of the Council of Europe. Perhaps you will again reply to me that this reflects a positive development. In any case, the situation is not glorious. Mr Minister, won't austerity and the rationalization plan make this situation worse? Indeed, I have heard of an intention to reduce investment. Why don't you invest in the number of staff and the improvement of prison infrastructure? When needs are such, it makes sense to invest and engage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u115	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, at the risk of repeating myself, I want to point out that during this Parliament, which only started in October 2014, I have taken many steps to reduce prison overcrowding. For the time being, the term may be wrongly chosen, but compared to what previously existed, it is "only" 10% relative to capacity. The measures I proposed from the beginning, in my Justice Plan – I don't know if you were there in March 2015 when I proposed this plan – were different. First, there was the anticipation of the repatriation of foreigners without a residence permit. Last year, more than a thousand of them were repatriated. I have also proposed the extension of electronic surveillance, together with the Communities. Electronic surveillance, against all expectations, has already become an autonomous penalty, this 1st May 2016. I pushed for this legislation to come into force as quickly as possible. It was suggested that internees should be accommodated as much as possible in specialized institutions rather than in prisons. Since the beginning of this government, we have already created more than three thousand additional places outside the prisons, notably in Ghent, Tournai (the Marronniers), Zelzate and Bierbeek. Towards the end of this year, an additional institution will open in Antwerp. In Masterplan III, there will be three more. Mr Van Hees, therefore, do not tell me that we have not done our utmost to reduce the overcrowding in this Parliament with a government that you do not like. I have spoken a great deal about pre-trial detention, because it should be further restricted because it concerns 36 per cent of our inmates. The "pot-pourri 5" project that we are currently discussing within the government should go in this direction. It is easy to refer to international statistics, to make comparisons with the situation in other countries and to remember the figures that best suit you, but you cannot deny that we have done everything to reduce the prison population. If you expect miracles, leave your party and join mine! I will continue to do so despite the work being done by the opposition. From time to time, it is not honest about the government's actions. Be convinced, Mr Van Hees, that I will do even better in the future!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u116	Minister, when you mention the figure of 10%, it would be good to know the one from which we come, in order to observe the evolution! Otherwise, it's hard to figure it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u117	We come from an overpopulation rate of 24%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u118	J'en prends acte. You are quoting a series of measures that I do not dispute and which are intended to improve things. But I also see a trend – already observed in discussions on the "pot-pourri" projects, here in question – towards an increase in a repressive policy that may have the opposite effect and lead to an increase in the prison population. I had also pointed out the contradiction in your general speech that the prison population should be reduced and specific measures that increase repressivity and that will increase the prison population. I don't know what the balance sheet will be, but I stress opposite movements. What is most incomprehensible is that, given this overpopulation situation and the position of Belgium among the countries where this overpopulation remains the most important today, regardless of the efforts made or not, you are taking measures to rationalise, you are reducing investment. How do you want the situation to improve from the moment when the policy pursued is that of budgetary reduction, the policy of austerity? I will conclude by quoting one of the union leaders this morning at RTBF: "This right-wing government wants to kill the public services." Prisons are a good illustration of this. And it's not the only one!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u119	Minister, terrorist attacks have recently taken place in our country and some networks have already been rolled up in our country, while others are still being sought. You are not expressing an opinion on individual cases, but I would like to refer to you a recent ruling by a judge. It's about a judge's ruling not to send a convicted terrorist to prison yet. In the current context, I think that is, frankly, a curious decision. It's about a man who just got convicted because he's a member of a terrorist group. Apparently, he also confessed by telephone that he was involved in the beheading of a man in Syria, which is quite a serious fact, but that confession is separate from the initial procedure. For the membership of the terrorist group, he was sentenced to five years in prison last week, half of which was postponed. The federal prosecutor has therefore requested his immediate arrest, but the judge has not responded to everyone's surprise. This means that the person concerned is at large today, until he may be sentenced permanently, and possibly even longer, until he receives a prison letter to register. We all know that it may take some time for a person concerned to receive a prison letter after a final verdict. A judge may, of course, decide not to apprehend a person immediately if he considers that the convicted person will not escape the execution of his sentence. However, this concerns someone who was already in Syria, confessed to such facts and was also convicted of membership of a terrorist group. I therefore find the reasoning of the judge very peculiar. There is, of course, the separation of powers, but the facts still affect the citizens. Mr. Secretary, are the press releases correct? We can't appeal. Is there anything else you can do to ensure that the person concerned is not able to walk freely? In the previous legislature there was a discussion about Sharia4Belgium. Mrs Turtelboom then wanted to use her positive right of insertion to stop letting Belkacem go free. Maybe that's an option. Do you have any options in your arsenal about something to do with that? That is my question, with all due respect for the separation of powers, of course, but public security is also important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u120	The person you are talking about in your question was sentenced to five years in prison, including half of them with probationary delay for membership of a terrorist group, not for a life offense. The prosecution has requested immediate arrest, but it was not ordered by the court. The person had already been released for trial on conditions and did not escape his trial. So he appeared at the hearing. In the context of the execution of the sentence, I cannot do anything, since the judgment has not yet entered into force as a res judicata and the person concerned has not been apprehended after his reference to the courts. So much for my knowledge of the criminal procedure, Mrs. De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic413x.u121	Mr Minister, perhaps I should ask the question again if the verdict is final. That used to be after 15 days. Now the deadline is a little longer. At least it needs to be guarded that man doesn't have to wait a few months for his prison letter to arrive. We know that's one of the problems. I hope that you will follow the file with some precision as soon as the sentence is final, and that the execution of the sentence will arrive soon. I can only say that we are counting on that, Minister.
