ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 8391 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants' 8473 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u2	My question is about carat tax. In this context, I would refer once again to the Court of Auditors' report, which states that the diamond tax, the proceeds of which were estimated at EUR 50 million in 2015, has not yet been implemented by the failure of the European Commission's decision on the nature of this tax, which means that the collection of this tax is highly uncertain and is no longer included in tax revenue. We discussed this last month. Is it true that the government no longer registered any proceeds for the carat tax in 2016? That question has already been answered in principle. What about the revenue in 2015? You charged an additional €50 million for advance payments as a result of the announcement of the carat tax. Can you tell us how much higher the advance payments of the diamond companies were in 2015 compared to 2014? Is there any news on the European Commission's investigation? By when do you expect a final answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u3	Indeed, it is true that the government did not include revenues from the carat tax in the budget for 2016. The Court of Auditors points out in the report, to which you refer, that the carat tax cannot yet be implemented because of the procedure in Europe. Currently no data are available on advance payments in the diamond sector. We can perhaps come back to that later. There have already been several meetings with the European Commission. They run in a constructive atmosphere. This clearly shows that the Commission has a deep understanding of the specific nature of the sector and therefore also of the demand for specific measures. The Commission's great concern is not to create a precedent. I mean that what could possibly be agreed for the diamond sector would not automatically be regarded by other sectors as a precedent that could be relied upon to introduce similar measures. The Commission's recognition of the very specific nature of this sector is very important. I hope to be able to conclude the talks with the Commission before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u4	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u5	Minister, the una-via Act of 20 September 2012 contains two important components, in particular the consultation between the tax authorities and the public prosecutor and the provisional or definitive suspension of the payment of fines and tax increases. The Constitutional Court partially destroyed this law because of the violation of the principle of non bis in idem. The law is an important instrument in the fight against tax fraud and its repair is therefore really urgent. Your predecessor, Ms Sleurs, announced in her February 2015 Action Plan that she would provide a solution by June 2015. In the meantime, you have become competent, but we have heard nothing more about this matter. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. When can we expect a solution to the una-via law? Why is it taking so long to repair it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u6	Mr Vanvelthoven, the una-via law is a very important element in the fight against tax fraud. There is now a great deal of repair legislation to be put in place, integrating the international case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice, the international conventions, criminal law, tax law and the judgment of the Constitutional Court. That's an impressive list. They are doing a lot of work, but that is extremely complex. Both my colleague from the Justice Department and myself want to prevent us from having to repair again soon after this exercise. I can assure you that we are working hard on it, but it is extremely complex, so let me not have to say that we will settle it by March or May. As Minister responsible for combating tax fraud, I have every interest in ensuring that this happens as soon as possible, but I also believe that I have every interest in ensuring that it is done as well as possible. The complexity is impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that it is being worked hard and I agree with you that better work is being done than it is being completed as soon as possible and that we will then be in trouble again before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u8	Minister, the speculative tax has now been applied for a few weeks. The Time means that you open the door to an adjustment of the speculative tax. You mentioned possible changes if the speculative tax has too great a negative impact on the real economy. Could you give us a little more explanation about that? What possible negative effects does that tax have? What changes do you have in mind? It is strange that, after the speculative tax has become applicable, you, as I understand it, are questioning it in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u9	I'll give a slightly more nuanced interpretation to my words. What exactly did I mean by that remark? It's two things. Firstly, the financial sector is "innovation." New products and processes are constantly being launched. You will not be unaware of the fact that all kinds of products are being tricked into the slipstream of speculation tax. I have also asked the FSMA to monitor this very carefully and to carry out the necessary analyses of the new products as soon as possible. In view of this phenomenon, I think it is also logical that a minister should try to be alert so that things are not created that are a little inappropriate. Let me put it this way. This first source of concern is linked to the fact that there is a rat race between the outside world and the legislator on a number of points. Secondly, I really do not see at the moment what I have said in the Chamber and on other occasions, that the speculative tax we have designed could have a fundamentally negative impact on the financing of our companies, certainly not on our SMEs. Anyway, I just want to pay attention to the fact that there might be effects in that area. This is something that can be closely followed. I have to take responsibility and look at it. If I say that we are following the speculative tax closely, then financial innovation and its consequences and the possible effects on the financing of companies are the two items on my agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have always learned that we should not make too many conditional statements in politics. If there are ever negative effects, then we must be alert to them. You add that they are not here today. That's totally okay. In that regard, your answer is partly superfluous or without object. The other point is, of course, important. I assume that in fiscal legislation this is very often the case that creativity comes around the corner. It should not be the intention that what Parliament wanted with the speculative tax through improper use should not be evaded. As far as this alertness is concerned, you can count on our support, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u11	Minister, I read in the press that you are a very cool lover of speculation tax and that it has actually been imposed on you by other parties, as an alternative to capital gains tax. I have to tell you that this speculation tax is not from our brains and certainly not seen as an alternative to capital gains tax. What you are saying, I can understand that, but we were not cool lovers of it, we simply never proposed it or considered it. Who made the proposal, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u12	So you are actually a cool lover, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u13	No cool lover, we've never been in love with it, not even a lover of it, nothing. I read the criticism from stock exchange circles as if we were behind it, because we did not get the capital gains tax. I'm sorry, but it's the press who writes that. You've also been a former journalist. My experience with the press is that there is always a ground of truth in it (...) I hope that the speculative tax will raise EUR 30 million. In any case, in the coming months we will have other fiscal cats to fling than the speculative tax of EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u14	Minister, a new and improved computer system will be put in place by the FPS Finances, which will allow all outstanding criminal fines to be collected throughout the country by bailiff or arrest. Two pilot projects had been set up in Liège and Ghent. The latter proved their worth since 8,000 files were sent to a bailiff and the sum of EUR 4 300 000 was collected. Will this new tool now apply to the entire territory? Could you take stock of this device? Could you give me an estimate of the amount that could be generated by implementing this new measure? Could you also tell me if this new tool will target a specific audience? Will it focus on individuals or apply equally to businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u15	My colleague, the pilot projects set up in Ghent and Liège were designed to compensate for the lack of certain features of the First computer system. These projects were to be a temporary technical solution. First, which has been in production throughout the country since 2012, will have the features that covered the pilot projects in February. These include the sending of reminder letters and the transmission of unpaid fines to judicial officers as well as the payment of their costs. Simultaneously with the sending of files to the judicial officers, the administration began, in March 2015, to make seizures itself, in particular to the employers of convicted persons. Since then, more than 2,500 seizures have been made, mainly on wages, which have brought in more than one million euros. First aims to automate the collection and recovery of criminal fines. The gain is found in the effective treatment of criminal fines. Actual revenues are difficult to estimate because they depend on the solvency of the convicted person. Nevertheless, recovery rates are increasing. The recovery of criminal fines targets convicted persons without distinguishing between natural and legal persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u16	In the meantime, Minister, we have seen tables of administration indicating that the impact of the tax shift on local authorities will be very significant in the coming years. A number of decisions at the federal level such as corporation tax on intercommunals, and at the Flemish level already had financial implications for the municipalities. The tax shift's gonna be there right now. There is great concern, which has already been ventilated by the VVSG. I would like to know how you experience that concern, Minister. What's your reaction to that? I also wanted to know whether you could tell us in concrete terms what the impact will be, but I have seen tables on this in the meantime. Do you exclude that future measures will include provisions with a negative impact on local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u17	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, of course I have every understanding and consideration for the reaction of the local authorities, but also the following. The federal government has decided to substantially reduce income taxes in Belgium, not only to improve the competitiveness of our country but also to improve the purchasing power of the population. It is no secret that the high wage costs in Belgium are more than once the reason for moving activities abroad, and that is the context in which you should look at the tax shift package of measures. Inevitably structured in a country such as Belgium, it goes without saying that the tax shift has short-term and medium-term consequences both at regional and local level. Nevertheless, it is intended to safeguard employment for the future and even substantially increase it. I can refer again to the studies carried out by the Planning Bureau and the National Bank. In our opinion, the short-term reductions for the municipalities will be offset by higher employment in the long term. Therefore, the data received by the municipalities in the letter dated 16 December 2015 refer to gross figures, i.e. a maximum cost estimate of the tax shift. The payback effects have not been taken into account at all per municipality. That also seems to me to be somewhat logical. The reason for this is that these effects can be calculated at macroeconomic level, but are obviously very difficult to specify for the micromunicipal level. Finally, the tax shift is only part of federal policy. In addition to the positive effects of the tax shift in itself, which has just been briefly mentioned, such as additional employment with a direct impact on the revenue of the municipalities, there are other federal measures. I will specifically mention two. Firstly, the government's structural pension reforms will reduce the municipal burden on the municipalities. This is already the case for most municipalities and OCMWFs this year. The pension costs of local governments will fall because patronage contributions from 41.5 % are permanently brought to 40%, which represents a significant advantage in the longer term. Then, of course, there is the index jump. This may be the measure with the greatest impact, including for local authorities. As for the future, we have the federal structure we have. Of course, we will try to pay as much attention to the local level as possible in the case of new federal measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. With regard to the payback effects that the government is counting on, some of them will undoubtedly be there. They will also partly flow to the congregations through higher wages and the ups and downs. However, one does not always live where one is employed and it is indeed very difficult to look at it. On the basis of all the measures taken by the two governments, the VVSG has produced a very comprehensive document including the pluses. After all, you also mention a few pluses. If we look at everything, however, the loves for the local authorities are drastic. In a certain newspaper I read that the conclusion is that the local authorities have almost completely stopped their investments. That, of course, is also a bad thing. When we talk about employment, the local authorities in the past were often partly the engine, including new construction work. If that fails because of uncertainty about the resources for the next few years, then that is something I regret and we should all regret. The local authorities take note of the positive measures you have listed, but of course we all bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on November 17, Belfius issued residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS). These bonds represent a portfolio of mortgages refinanced from investors, only institutional in the case we are dealing with. The press release issued at the time by Euronext states that this is the first public placement of this type of product in Belgium since 2007. The same press release also states that the transaction, involving €800 million of triple A bonds, had attracted a wide range of international investors. Although the Belfius experts are trying to avoid comparison, the mechanism of this type of investment is reminiscent of the subprime mechanism, which is the trigger of the crisis which we know of the repercussions still today. At the time, the rise in key interest rates in the United States had left many households unable to repay their variable-rate loans, with the known impact on financial markets and on such subprime. We also know the effect on some banks in the United States, accompanied by collateral effects felt so far at home. I can't teach you that. These same sub-primes received the same rating, the triple A, by rating agencies. When I discover this information, I can only worry about it with you, minister. Can you tell me if you have consulted with the directors and management of Belfius, prior to the decision to propose this product? I'm asking you, because we're 100% owners of Belfius. Do you consider it normal for a state-owned bank to be the first to offer this type of product since the outbreak of the financial crisis? What are the reasons for this choice? What benchmarks have been put in place to ensure the safety of this project? Does Belfius intend to reissue the issue of such bonds? At what rate? What are the general guidelines set by the Belfius authorities for a prudent and sustainable investment policy such as that we can expect from a bank wholly owned by the Belgian State? What obligations and guidelines are laid down in Belfius by its sole shareholder, the federal state represented by the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI) and by yourself who have control over it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u20	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, indeed, in November 2015, Belfius launched a residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) program for institutional investors. These transactions are part of the normal management and good father of the Belfius bank balance sheet. They enable Belfius to further develop its financing diversification strategy and broaden its investor base, thereby making the bank less dependent on one or two sources of financing. Thanks to the funds obtained, Belfius confirms its mission of supporting the Belgian company through, among other things, the granting of credits, in accordance with the initiative of the European Union. It aims to give new impetus to the securitisation market with a view to stimulating the financing of the real economy. This decision is taken autonomously by the bank, at a rate determined by the bank itself, depending on the risk profile and in relation to the evolution of the bank's balance sheet. There is no reason or legal basis for mandatory and prior consultation of the public authorities with respect to its usual transactions, either directly or indirectly via the SFPI. On 30 September 2015, the European Commission issued a press release on this subject, mentioning in particular: "Why does the Commission want to restore security markets? Soundly structured, security is an important channel for diverse funding sources and enabling a broker distribution of risk by allowing banks to transfer the risk of some exposures to other banks or long-term investors such as insurance companies and asset managers. This allows banks to free the part of their capital that was set aside to cover for the risk in the sold exposures, thereby allowing banks to generate new lending [[."]] The comment on the contribution of securitisation operations to the financial crisis is certainly justified. However, the significant differences between transactions that are structured in the United States and Europe should be highlighted. In the United States, loans were granted to borrowers whose repayment capacity had not been previously verified, with the result that there was no certainty as to the ability to repay this loan, the famous subprime you also mentioned. On the other hand, in Belgium, each bank carries out an in-depth individual credit analysis. Consultation of the BNB credit register is mandatory in order to avoid excessive indebtedness. In addition, in the United States, some lenders follow an original to distribute model in which the loans were granted with the aim of immediate sale of the loans through securitisation. As a result, the lender had no incentive to adequately manage credit risks. In the United States, these models led to the emergence of the financial crisis. Such practices are non-existent in Belgium, which is also demonstrated by the excellent performance of Belgian securitisation transactions in which no losses were recorded. The transaction that Belfius recently launched on the market is therefore certainly not comparable to the transactions that led to the emergence of the financial crisis. In addition to the European Commission, other public bodies such as the OSCE, the ECB, the Bank of England and others have also taken initiatives to restore confidence in this type of product. We refer to the ECB, which has developed a securitisation buyback programme: "The ABSPP helps banks to diversify funding sources and stimulates the outcome of new securities. Asset-backed securities can help banks to fillill their main role: providing credit to the real economy. For instance, securing loans and selling them can provide banks with the necessary funds to provide new linking to the real economy. This will be further less funding and credit conditions and help the transmission of monetary policy." There is therefore no reason not to support an initiative that contributes to the financing of the Belgian economy and meets the regulatory requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u21	Minister, I take note of your explanation of the difference between this type of credit and those that led to the subprime crisis. You will understand that the concept of mortgage securitization makes me startle. I wanted to make sure that, just as we want the Belgian State to lay down rules for limiting risk taking, transparency and financing of the much stronger economy in Belfius. In this case, it seems that this new financial tool proposed by Belfius has all the security guarantees. I hope that is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u22	Mr Minister, financial knowledge can certainly be updated, not only in the case of pupils, but in general. It is important that financial knowledge can be a subject at school or be included in the final terms. Education is of course a Flemish matter, but it is important to know that there was a FSMA pilot project on financial education. There was also the project Wikifin specifically for teachers in secondary schools. This resulted in good teaching and teaching material. More than ever, such questions are on the agenda, also to make people resilient in a rather complex financial landscape. I have a few questions about this. Given the high intrinsic value of that pedagogical project, I would like to know what the state of play is with regard to the FSMA pilot project. Is it still in federal hands or has the project been transferred? Is it gonna continue? Has it been evaluated? Is there a federal coordination to set up a basic field of financial training with the Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u24	Don't ask any difficult questions, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u25	Mr President, I did not hear Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u26	It's about ARCO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u27	In your question, Mr Deseyn, you refer to the results of the Rabobank money business test knowledge. May I point out that this test is limited to knowledge questions, mainly within the domain of savings and investment? According to my personal information, there are studies that are much wider and therefore more appropriate as a benchmark in the discussion, just think of the famous Pisa studies of the OECD, including a well-founded survey of financial literacy. I also refer to the measurement made by the FSMA in 2015 on wikifin.be of financial knowledge, behaviour and attitude among the Belgian population. The FSMA has also taken several initiatives in this area. I would like to point again to a number of important successes within the financial education wikifin.be programme. With the website, campaigns for the general public and the presence at fairs like Batibouw, the popularity of wikifin.be is steadily increasing. For example, the website was completed 1 260,000 times in 2015, a growth of more than 66% compared to 2014. Through annual conferences and meetings, the FSMA also coordinates activities of the various stakeholders active in the field of financial training. With regard to your first question, I can further confirm that the FSMA is still active in both Dutch and French language education to give financial education a place in school. It provides support through, inter alia, free, well-founded teaching materials. With regard to the pilot project in Dutch language education, smart management of your money, an asset for life, which ran during the school year 2014-2015, I can tell you that this project was a success. The FSMA has succeeded in giving financial training a place in the lesson, in collaboration with among others the King Baudouin Foundation, educational counsellors, teachers, and some 15 pilot schools. On 26 October 2015, an inspiration day was also organised in collaboration with the Department of Education and Training. There 300 attendees learned to work with the wikifin@school material through workshops. On this day of inspiration, the digital platform wikifin@school was also launched, with background information for the teacher, suggestions for the classroom, so-called textbooks, video clips and other tools and games. In French-speaking education, the pilot project experienced a similar evolution. In three months, 600 users have already registered on the platform, and a total of 2 300 lesson sheets have already been downloaded. The FSMA is also working on making the wikifin@school platform more widely known, refining and expanding the material aimed at specific target groups, forming teachers, and so on. The FSMA certainly wants to continue on this momentum, both for the general public and for education. Together with other government organisations and non-profit organisations, the FSMA will organise the Week of Money in March 2016. The various activities already have a great interest. For example, 167 secondary schools and over 500 primary schools have already registered for school activities. In reply to your second question, in order to make financial training a basic subject, it is up to the relevant ministers to give a concrete answer. There is no longer any discussion, I think, about whether financial education should be included in education, but still about how it can best be included in the education programme. For Flemish education, the Department of Education and Education, a proposal for a reference framework for economic literacy has been drawn up. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Flemish Government and Minister of Education has meanwhile launched the final term debate. The FSMA is willing to cooperate and contacts have been started in this sense. In any event, financial formation is on the agenda for the final debate. In addition to educational institutions, civil society, schoolchildren and the population will be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u28	Minister, there is a lot of movement, they are very nice projects around those 15 pilot schools. I'm also looking forward to the upscaling when that's evaluated. It would be good to hear about this later and to see if it could be rolled out in more schools, after the evaluation in the pilot schools. The F.D.D. is doing a great job here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u29	Mr Minister, I often hear from parents with a son or daughter with disabilities that they have to undergo monitoring, evaluation and medical checks, while one would think that the results are already in the federal government databases. But a tax check must once again prove the handicap. How is it that in 2016 the tax authorities have to request these data separately? Do we not have access to certain databases of health and social security or do we have poor cooperation? Is that justified, because there is also a principle that an information can only be requested once by a certain level of government? Perhaps there is also a problem with the flow of information or with standardization? I am surprised that those involved tell me that they keep submitting certificates and finally requesting the same information again from the tax authorities. Why is that? When will you remedy that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u30	Mr Deseyn, the Finance Administration receives the information you are referring to from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. In the vast majority of cases, therefore, the tax authorities do not have to reclaim that evidence from the parents. If the administration does not automatically have or has access to that information, the evidence is indeed requested, but today the administration is doing everything possible to optimize the flow of information, so that that kind of question, which indeed does not always come right, would become superfluous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u31	I welcome your commitment and I look forward to the results, because the testimonies are too frequent. That information is just there. There must be an error in the architecture of the system. There's a bridge missing. It is said that this information is only requested when one does not have it, but it is clearly known that one does have it. There is a need for consultation between the various services. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u32	Mr Minister, I can be brief in my introduction. It's actually fascinating. We've had so many meetings about Greece. Now aid packages of a very substantial order are being reallocated and the role of the IMF has been reconfirmed, or the introduction of the IMF throughout that support operation. It's very quiet about that. However, a lot of money is being made available. That is why I think it is absolutely appropriate to hear from you what the role of the IMF will be in the third aid package and what the reforms are. Why did the Greek Government and the Eurogroup now agree? That's a change of course, isn't it? Has there been a debt restructuring or a certain haircut or agreements on social benefits in Greece? I think it's very quiet there. However, these are significant developments. That is why I thought it could be useful for everyone to have an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u33	Mr Deseyn, I would like to make it clear immediately that the IMF has not yet committed itself to being part of the third aid package for Greece, which was agreed in July last year. However, the Greek Government has declared that it now accepts that the IMF will play a role. Until quite recently, there were also signs in the other direction, in particular that the Greek Government wanted the IMF to stay outside the package. But on the basis of what we have heard recently, there seems to be a change in Athens. It may be due to the fact that the IMF is expressing itself in favour of a debt restructuring, which is far less evident for Europe, as you know. Now, however, I'm guessing out loud what's going on for Athens on this issue. A second point is that it is often overlooked in those discussions.... that the IMF's involvement from the outset has been a precondition for the adoption of the third aid package, not only because of the country that is always the most explicit in favour of it, namely Germany. In order to benefit from the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism, a Member State is required to submit a request for assistance to the IMF. So you cannot benefit from support from the ESM without that submission to the IMF. This agreement was reaffirmed at the Euro Summit on 12 July 2015. A third remark. The IMF has also made it very clear at various meetings that it only wants to grant a new loan to Greece under certain conditions. For example, the measures provided for in the European aid package should be implemented strictly as planned. Pension reform is a key element in this, in addition to a whole series of measures that should restore the budget to health. The IMF also wants guarantees that Greece's debt sustainability can be restored. A clear decision was also taken at the Euro Summit on 12 July 2015. Additional measures to make the burden of debt sustainable may be considered. This can only be discussed after completion of the first review of the programme, as the maps now lie, planned for the middle or the second half of February. The same Eurotop of 12 July 2015 stressed that a normal haircut is not possible. The first review of the programme will be prepared in the coming weeks. Moreover, as in the past, the IMF is very closely involved in the preparation and implementation of this review. One final remark. The third aid package provides for a long series of measures to be taken by the Greek authorities. The measures target both government expenditure and revenue and affect both the private and public sectors. The institutions will ensure that the balance contained in the package will also be respected in implementation. The general impression at present is that the Greek Government is taking the implementation of the aid package more seriously this time than in previous aid packages. This does not mean that there are no points of discussion between Greece and the institutions. Furthermore, the proposals for pension reforms which are still being examined by the institutions are expected to be further clarified on the path to be followed. In the coming weeks, therefore, Greece and the third aid package will once again be of considerable importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u34	Mr President, first of all I thought I would conclude that the water is no longer so high on their minds, but perhaps the opposite is the case and one is playing less highly because one realizes that this will still be needed. Perhaps this time we will not turn it into a Greek drama in order to facilitate or not to facilitate the award. Thank you for this update.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u35	Minister, the government is one and indivisible. However, we need all day long to get answers from two Prime Minister's committees and from you on the financial transaction fee. Two mouths speak of the same theme and hopefully the speakers are on the same line. The coalition agreement is invoked as if biblical exegesis had to be done. There are also different versions of the gospel. However, there is only one version of the coalition agreement. It's important to put all that right. There may be atoma versions, but they can't undermine the commitment taken. There should also be continuity in the financial transaction tax policy. It would be particularly unfortunate if the impression arose that we no longer want to cooperate constructively. The Prime Minister personally took this to heart: he was very committed to this issue from the time he was Minister of Development Cooperation. We are very happy to endorse this, even as co-subsist of the initial proposal in 2005. We have already discussed this in the discussion of the policy paper. Let's take a look at the latest proposals for possible exemption. Think of the condition of 50% activity of financial transactions or exposure to derivatives and less than five times turnover; in these cases exemption is granted. It could be said that this is not problematic, because the perimeter is rather limited and it is a modest ambition. There are also many arguments, previously cited in other reports, according to which the tax can be a lever to invest more in the real economy and to focus less on speculation. There's a thin line over there. Is it about speculation or about stopping the market, or is it about market distortion of the real economy? That depends entirely on how one defines it. At some point something workable must come out and a step forward must be taken. There's really no way back. Do we then do this positively with amendments and focus on substantive refinement rather than saying that the current working method does not succeed or that we should wait for a capital markets union? By the way, that's a project at a fairly embryonic stage. One of the objectives of this is to stabilise the financial system. It is about great principles and the financial transaction tax can perfectly get a place in that. The key question remains whether there is any conflict with the coalition agreement. I don't think so. It does not therefore seem to me appropriate to explain that it was not agreed and that we cannot continue with what is now on the table. In the meantime, the proposals are much more sophisticated. In the coalition agreement we are talking about a few sentences, and they do not rule out the possibility of continuing to work in this enhanced cooperation. I am not saying, as others have said this morning, that there is sabotage, but the various majority parties should still have a serious incentive argument, so that Belgium remains credible in its international commitment to the financial transaction tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u36	Mr President, Minister, we did not wait until this weekend's events to address this issue because, on a regular basis, we are taking stock of the state of play of the TTF issue in enhanced cooperation. Indeed, we have been concerned for several months about your position, about Belgium's sluggish position in negotiations with the other participating countries. Your answers to this question have never been clear or voluntaristic. We have been concerned about this on many occasions, and today we realize that we are right to be alarmed. As a reminder, ten years ago, this Parliament ruled on the relevance of the introduction of such a tax. Some members of your government must remember that they also supported this initiative at the time. During the previous parliamentary term, in 2013, we tabled a resolution that explicitly called for "continue to support the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, initially through enhanced cooperation within the European Union, then throughout the European Union and internationally". That resolution had been voted on and supported by the majority. Yet today we are far from it and it is regrettable. Euro-realism, a self-proclaimed definition of your political formation, seems once again to have become a Euro-destructor when it comes to protecting the financial sector. Clearly, the scholarship lobby is talking to you! A few days ago, you said that you planned to "analyse in the coming weeks or months how to end this tax". We can't be clearer! You did not say "how this tax might be adjusted" but "terminate this tax". Minister, in the face of this reversal, we are concerned. It is unacceptable to us that you should come back to a commitment made earlier by Belgium several years ago. Could you explain to us this position which, unfortunately, does not surprise us, given the answers we had received before? Could you take stock of the ongoing negotiations within enhanced cooperation? An important meeting was held in December 2015. I'd like to know what's on the table. What are the proposals under consideration? I imagine that your reaction to wanting to put an end to this tax echoes what is really on the table and that is what we need to discuss today. However, we have no information. Mr President, I conclude by insisting once again on the importance of implementing this tax because it will allow for more financial ethics and, above all, more tax fairness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u37	Minister, it was for us and apparently also for some of your coalition partners last weekend when we were able to read that you seem to wish to organise the funeral of the tobin tax. At least you're not very excited about the plans that would be on the table. It was even suggested here and there that Belgium would leave the negotiating table of enhanced cooperation. I regret that. This morning, from the diplomatic response of the Prime Minister, I concluded that he also regretted that this image was created. The Prime Minister was not explicit enough to reassure me completely, but you have the opportunity to do so. Given the interest in the committee, there is a clear support for the tobin tax and for the leading role that our country should play in it. I realize your party program is getting in the way of that. Fiscal justice is not a taboo for the N-VA. In the search for external enemies, who sometimes have to cover their own failures, Europe has become the new political enemy to your political formation. A success of enhanced cooperation on the European echelon does not fit into the N-VA strategy today. It doesn't fit with the sons and daughters of Cameron who seem to be the N-VA more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u38	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u39	The sons and daughters of Cameron. In fact, mostly the sons of Cameron, because really many daughters are not there. There are already plenty of sensitive issues in this committee. That's why I don't cut that. Despite the fact that Mrs Sleurs has few powers, she is still a member of the government. So for now we can talk about the sons and daughters of Cameron. I call on you not to stand in the way of your party programme, Minister, and to follow the coalition agreement, which is quite clear in this respect and which sets out a direction that is also ours. My question is, what is the position today? This morning, the Prime Minister said that we should be part of it. Is that still your conviction? If that is the case, I would like to invite you to say the same in the stock exchange and in Parliament and at the negotiating table. That makes things easier to follow. You would have some comments on what is on the table. Are you prepared to give the committee members a little more insight into this? Perhaps there are some concerns that we share, perhaps not. What are your specific concerns today? I hope that it is not the concern that taxation should become more equitable, because that seems to me to be the obvious thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deseyn has just said that on this issue, there was no way to take a step backwards, but you are demonstrating that there is a way to initiate a procession of Echternach, which ultimately makes it possible to really doubt your will to achieve the introduction of this tax in accordance with the government declaration. The weekend outings make me fear in your head, without it necessarily being voluntary, but this is the reality, a form of double language, because, according to the press, you said you wanted to "analyze in the coming weeks or months how to put an end to this tax". Did you really say that? Since the publication of this article, you have published a denial. But in this denial, you list all the objections that this tax inspires you. We have the impression that our country is taking a step forward, two steps backwards, so that Belgium appears to be the weak link in the group of ten or eleven Member States determined to move forward. In doing so, we are going to weaken the whole group, since the less voluntarism there will be in order to move forward on the path of introducing this tax, the more disincentive it will have on the other Member States. Finally, there is a risk of failure. I am particularly saddened by the fact that Belgium is gradually drifting towards the group of Eurosceptics. While we have always had a tradition of state-of-the-art federalism, a desire to work community-wide on a European scale, here, finally, half-worded, you align yourself with David Cameron, Bart De Wever and we end up thinking that Belgium's position is that of a country that has become Eurosceptic. For me, it's dismaying. Minister, what is ultimately the government's position on this? How can we reconcile the various comments that have been reported to us? What is the status of discussions at European level on the introduction of a tax on financial transactions? Are there any new elements in this file that suggest that this tax will never come into being? What's your calendar? What deadlines can you tell us? Are you going to take any concrete steps towards the implementation of an agreement or are you pretending to respect the government agreement in order to undo yourself and arrive at this record of failure that would not be attributable to you? Are you really going to enter positively into this debate by making a constructive contribution to it as provided for in the government policy statement, or are you allowing this tax to bury itself with inertia and scepticism, in this case Euroscepticism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u41	Mr President, Minister, every day, when I open my newspaper, I'm a little afraid of what I'm going to find out about you. And we may wonder if you will not soon make your predecessor, Mr. Reynders, look like a leftist. It would be an extraordinary feat! Still, Minister, the tax on financial transactions is really problematic. In any case, it would be appropriate for you to clarify the matter. A few months ago, you announced the creation of a speculation tax to fight the latter, a tax that is practically nothing and affects only a tiny part of financial transactions. In this case, while the tax in question is of great magnitude since it affects most transactions, you seem to be reversing. Minister, how do you envisage the fight against speculation? What exactly is your position on the financial transaction tax as implemented multilaterally? What are your arguments for or against this tax? What is the position of the government as a whole in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u42	Minister, if I have not asked you ten times about this, I have not questioned you once! I understand that this theme did not enthralle you. Nevertheless, I had the weakness to believe that you were faithful to the government agreement. Obviously, last Wednesday, the masks fell in Euronext. Maybe you expressed something you shouldn't have said in the presence of a journalist. In any case, you have stated your willingness not to see this draft ten-point financial transaction tax come to fruition. You then tried to contradict this information by means of a press release. One could speak of hypocrisy or sabotage. Anyway, it's really problematic in terms of the stakes. Indeed, the purpose of the tax is to make a greater contribution of capital income to the budgetary effort of all States, to find ways to finance development and to slow down mechanisms of speculation. Of course, one might think that it would be appropriate for all European countries to participate, but our governments have chosen to move forward to ten. The European Union needs these enhanced cooperation mechanisms, particularly in the tax field, to give a little body and hope to this magnificent project. Apparently, you're not as sensitive to it as we are. Similarly, the government is not unanimous on this issue. There are speeches on one side and acts on the other. However, the latter conflict with the government agreement. Did the Prime Minister call you to tell you that he disapproved of your position? For me, it's his role to get you back in the right direction. He didn't answer me this morning. Perhaps you will shed some light on this. I mean, he didn't answer that specific question, Mr. Chairman. He told me that the Minister of Finance was going to implement the government agreement. I would therefore like to ask him whether Belgium's position on the tax on financial transactions has changed. Minister, what is your speech in this area when you participate in ECOFIN meetings? Assuming that the journalist has misunderstood or heard something he should not hear or that our perception of your action is wrong, tell us what the strategy our country is implementing to bring the project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. In this case, I ask only to be misunderstood, because I hope to have a poor estimate of the problem and to see the ten countries concerned move forward so that, within two years, all the Member States follow them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u43	Mr President, Minister, you will have an analysis of whether you are analysing how to put an end to the tobin tax. You have just said, perhaps you will repeat that now, because you are responsible for the interpretation of your own words.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u45	Soon we'll hear your answer. In any case, you understand that it is a huge change of course that Belgium and you, as representatives of Belgium, are suddenly defending. In May 2014, eleven EU Member States, including Belgium, agreed to start the financial transaction tax from 1 January 2016. May 2014 dates back to the last months of the previous government, so you could say that the agreement was concluded by the Socialists. In any case, everyone was beginning to assume that the transaction fee would be there, because the negotiations are still ongoing at the moment. Recently, both the French President Hollande and the German Chancellor Merkel have called for the rapid introduction of this financial transaction tax. I should also like to point out that the Minister for Development Cooperation under the Leterme Government was that when Charles Michel was an ardent defender of that tobin tax, of that transaction tax. You're putting him in a difficult position. The transaction tax itself is now at stake. In international terms, it would be an unlikely signal that Belgium would withdraw or take another position. If you were experiencing problems, I would have understood if you had said that you would have analyzed how you think those problems could be solved or improved. However, you have given the negative signal that you would have analyzed how to stop the transaction fee. Our international credibility is at stake here. The international leaders and the large EU countries are today arguing not to put the brakes on, as you do, but to step up and accelerate. This is why we are making a bad turn at international level. The credibility of this government, which I am of course less concerned about, is also under pressure here. I've heard some comments from your majority parties over the last few days. Several majority parties do not understand your statements and advocate that our country not only cooperates within the Group of 10 but also pulls the cart. This is not just a question of what is happening with the transaction tax; it goes much further, in my view, about the credibility of the government and our country at international level. This is about the credibility of the members of the government themselves. A prime minister who is directly opposed to his Minister of Finance is not right. I would like to support the questions put by my fellow Members. What's next? Is this your personal opinion that has been overruled in the meantime? What is the view that the Belgian Government will put forward in international and European discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u46	I would like to join in this. I also regret that this polemic is being held in the press. It is a discussion on a matter approved by Parliament and included in the coalition agreement. We have already discussed it a number of times here in committee, when the Minister reported on the Ecofin Council. I regret that, as Members of Parliament, we had to go through this whole weekend and I hope that you will clarify that in your reply, Minister. This is really not a good way of working, even with regard to this Parliament, which has been very committed in the past, even though I was not here at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u47	Colleagues, on 8 December 2015, in the margins of the ECOFIN Council, ten of the eleven countries initially participating approved the basic proposal to introduce a tax on financial transactions. Estonia felt that this proposal went too far and, as you know, left the group. In the coming weeks and months, this proposal will be refined in collaboration with the European Commission. The aim is to reach a final decision by June 2016. The discussions between the remaining ten Member States have not yet reached consensus. Some Member States believe that this measure, i.e. the elements which are in line with 8 December, does not go far enough, and others believe that it goes far too far. Contrary to what some media have reported last weekend, Belgium currently does not intend to leave the negotiating table around the FTT. The position of the government and myself remains unchanged in the file. I have already explained it several times in committee. The coalition agreement requires that Belgium continue to contribute constructively to the gradual introduction of a financial transaction tax under the regime of enhanced cooperation." That has always been the guiding principle for the attitude I adopted at the various meetings and ministerial FTT meetings in the margins of Ecofin, which, moreover, yesterday, 25 January, was very explicitly confirmed by the European Commission, at the daily press conference or briefing for the press. A spokesperson of the Commission described Belgium in this regard as "very supportive presence through the negation process'. Those are not my words, but those of the Commission. I have also been transparent to the Prime Minister and the coalition partners about Belgium's positions at the FTT meeting. You are certainly aware that the government agreement also states that the FTT, in order to be approved in Belgium, must meet a number of conditions which are in line with the government's position on this issue. These conditions are as follows: the FTT can only aim at speculation and cannot have an impact on the real economy, pension funds, insurance and public finances. I would also like to mention the text in Dutch: "The government will argue that this tax should focus on shares and derivatives of a speculative nature and not on real economic activity, neither on the transactions of pension funds and insurance companies as regards their cover assets, nor on government effects. In this context, the opportunity to maintain the stock exchange fee is being examined." That is the text of the coalition agreement. The texts currently before us in the framework of the FTT meetings do not guarantee any guarantee of safeguarding the real economy. Both large and small companies arm themselves on a daily basis, especially within a small, very open economy as well as the Belgian economy, through certain transactions against risk derivatives resulting, for example, from developments in commodity prices, exchange rates and interest rates. The present proposal will in any case make it more expensive and may also make it more difficult, which of course has adverse effects on businesses and, indeed, on employment. The government agreement also makes it very clear that pension funds should not be endorsed. As the range of products and transactions to be covered by the FTT is currently very wide, there are no guarantees that the FTT will effectively meet that requirement. However, what worries me most at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, is the impact that the FTT will have on the financing of public debt. An analysis by the Debt Agency showed that the proposal under discussion will have a negative impact on the financing of public debt. The Belgian Debt Agency confirms to me that the price of Belgian debt will increase with the introduction of that tax, and I would also like to draw special attention to the fact that our debt will also reduce liquidity. Mr President, it would not be unwise to invite the Debt Agency to clarify these positions to the members of the committee. After all, it is a very important aspect of the FTT and it seems unlikely to me that the committee will consider it unimportant. The costs and liquidity of public debt are dealt with here. Of course, the background to this concern is that we still have a debt ratio of 107 % and that we therefore have to deal extremely carefully with factors that have an impact, both on costs and on the liquidity of public debt. Moreover, the proposal currently on the table presents significant risks – it is an understatement – to the Belgian financial sector. Ten out of twenty-eight members of the Union are members of the FTT Group. The relocation of financial institutions as a result of this measure is not to be excluded. She's even likely. In fact, various steps have been taken to complete the internal market for financial services. As a result, capital, financial institutions and their activities have become much more mobile within the European Union. This trend will only be reinforced by the development of the Capital Markets Union, which aims to complete the internal market for financial services. Finally, I would like to remind you of a more than relevant historical event. I should like to refer in particular to Sweden during the period 1984-91. At that time, delocalisation was less self-evident than it is today. Sweden then introduced an FTT. In the seven years in which that tax existed, the average turnover on the Swedish stock exchange decreased by 30% and trade in the ten main shares fell by 60%. Trade in bonds, bond-based derivatives and bond options decreased by 85 %, 98 % and 100 % respectively. 50% of Swedish stock trading moved to London during that period. The result of all this was that the Swedish financial transaction tax realised only 5% of the expected revenues and was therefore inevitably removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u48	Thank you for your reply and the further clarification, Minister. I think that the debate should also be evaluated on the basis of fairness. This was always the starting point when the transaction fee was created. You can now say that we must find an agreement together. It must not, of course, be the case that an excuse should be sought in the coalition agreement not to change anything because this could have an impact on the real economy. Then I wonder which measure has no impact at all on the real economy. I believe that this is the case for every measure and every tax. Some people here use the rhetoric that we have to be careful not to bully around. This is a very selective rhetoric that is also being shown when it comes to so-called bullying companies or investment funds. When a measure is imposed that is sometimes perfectly justified, it is not said that it is bullying Jan Modaal. I think it's about keeping things in balance. You're talking about the argument of public debt. I think that's a valid argument. We need to take a closer look at what happens to the liquidity of the sovereign debt. When it comes to a difficult budgetary context and sovereign debt, we can also look at that excess profit rulings from the same concern about state revenue. I would just like to say that any argument can also be used in analog debates, where people feel it, where people may be able to recover something on the revenue side or where people are valued with new measures or face a deterioration in their purchasing power. As far as delocalisation is concerned, you refer to Sweden's historical example. However, we can also look at the historical example of the United Kingdom: there was no delocalisation at all after the introduction of a certain transaction tax because it was done in a smart way. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that the debate is far from complete. It's really a matter of textexegesis. As far as we are concerned, there is certainly no excuse in the coalition agreement for not reaching a solution at European level. Everyone has their starting point, of course, but if we do not have enough negotiating margin, there can of course never be an agreement. I think that the coalition agreement offers exactly those margins. Some outlines have been outlined, but if one always tries to draw attention to the chalk lines with no emphasis on the margin of negotiation, this will of course be a very difficult matter. So I encourage the government to bring the financial transaction tax to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u49	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, it is clear that you have not given many clear answers to our questions. And I still don't know if you actually made the point that you were going to do everything possible to remove this tax. I would like to point out that the objective of the Tobin tax was to regulate the financial market, to promote tax justice, to fight speculation and to promote the real economy. Let me quote Denis Ducrame – you know that I like to quote the great authors and economists – who said: "As Liberals, we are attached to this tax. It is, in our view, a way of fighting speculation and promoting the real economy and investment." You said that, in your view, the preservation of the real economy was far from guaranteed at this stage. You talked about banks, insurance, relocations. But, in terms of rates, one can wonder about the risks of these rates. However, you have not convinced me of the risks involved in terms of the real economy, on the contrary! It is therefore legitimate to ask a whole series of questions about your intentions. However, since 2004, our country has often been at the forefront in this area. During the previous parliamentary term, we had some weight in the discussions at European level and we could have a series of amendments made. I therefore regret that today we are more involved in withdrawal thinking than in thinking about the evolution of the agreement. Minister, you told us that a basic proposal had been approved. Can you provide us with a copy so that this proposal can be used as a basis for discussion? In addition, you have suggested the organization of expert hearings. If, on the basis of the above-mentioned proposal, we could hear experts, this would contribute to the clarification of the debate which could then be much more productive. That said, your reverse is nonsense. It also includes the rejection of the European project. She's sending a message of tax inequity. In addition, it unfortunately gives the impression that you are only the larbine of the world of finance, which is really pathetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u50	Mr Van Overtveldt, I have no problem with a hearing with the Debt Agency in order, among other things, to get a better view of what is on the table and of any problems. That is an outstretched hand that we are happy to accept. I believe, however, that, pending that technical debate, you should clarify a political point. You have not yet replied, and I would ask you to do so. It is said in the press that you would consider leaving the meeting of the Group of Ten on the tobin tax or not. Is that right? You have not replied to that very important point for the time being. Is it still your firm will and conviction to sit around the table and negotiate correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u51	Mr Calvo, you did not listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u52	Did you say that or not? These words are put in your mouth, so it is not illogical for us to question you about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u53	I don't think you've listened very carefully. Firstly, I have said quite clearly that we will sit around the table. Secondly, I have indeed said that the proposal as it is now before me is absolutely incoherent with what is provided for in the government agreement on this matter. Those are my two points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u54	I am glad to hear you say that you still have the ambition to sit around the table. You are quite categorized about what is on the table today and say that it is not your pleasure, that you do not want to know anything about it. However, the honourable Members who heard the Prime Minister this morning have heard a different sound. You say that the Prime Minister is aware of this and that you have always been transparent. However, the Prime Minister did not say that what is on the table today is imbuvable. So this has to be cleared up. I do not agree with the fact that Belgium's position on this issue is unclear. In principle, it should be crystal clear. If there are any substantive concerns, they must be eliminated, but the least we can ask of the government is to speak with one voice. Mr Van Rompuy, who was not registered for an oral question, would like to put it. That's his right. I know that some of my colleagues from the majority do not like him to use his freedom of speech. For us, that is not a problem at all, and I endorse his reprimand from earlier. Mr Minister, I understand the nervousness of the CD&V colleagues because a lot of files show that you are having a hard time with all the smell of fiscal justice. Also today, you have been spoken out and long-term in thinking of excuses. If you were just speaking in your desire for fair taxation, our fiscal picture would look different and there would be less doubt about the Belgian position regarding the tobin tax. I think it is remarkable, however, and a number of fellow Members have already mentioned that there are increasing misunderstandings with the N-VA in this government about the attitude of Belgium and the federal government to the European project. Your party chairman is far too often having tea with Mr Cameron.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u55	Can you finish, Mr Calvo? For a reply, you are entitled to one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u56	This is not only noticeable in this dossier but also in others. We know that the N-VA does not like Belgium and that it is becoming less and less of Europe. I would ask you to measure an attitude that is in line with the tradition of this country, and that is a expressed, voluntaristic, European attitude. I hope to see that attitude in the file on the tobin tax in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u57	Minister, I feared a form of double language, the way you spoke this weekend. I must say that in your answer you have just made a remarkable demonstration of this. I'll sum up your position. You said yes, but no. Yes, because the member countries of the group participating in enhanced cooperation accepted the proposal submitted on 8 December 2015 or at least its principle. That's what you said. You then listed all the reasons why this proposal seemed unacceptable to you. In the end, your position on this tax on financial transactions is "yes, but no". This poses a real credibility problem, not so much in your head, but in Belgium's. You are calling on Belgium to speak on this issue. I have the feeling that you can, by this dual language, both weaken Belgium and weaken the European project. I ask myself a fundamental question: do you really have the political will to reach an agreement and to introduce this tax? To this question, you answer "yes, but no". Honestly, that's not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u58	Minister, I come back to what you said last Wednesday at the Brussels Stock Exchange. I quote L'Echo journalist Jennifer Nille: Johan Van Overtveld said he wanted to "analyse, in the coming weeks or months, how to put an end to this tax". If I hear your answer, the journalist is lying. Maybe you said it in Dutch. According to the newspaper, it's clear that you said it. My second question concerns this "no, but yes" or "yes, but no". It would be interesting to anticipate the Prime Minister's presence when asking questions to Mr. Van Overtveldt. Intra-governmental contradictions could be addressed directly. Beyond that, you say "no, but yes", but only by making arguments against the tax. Finally, I think your answer is clear, although it should be translated, not from Dutch to French. Your roadmap is to say that we are not leaving the negotiating table, but that at the end of the process, it will be no. I think that's what you're saying. We don't leave the negotiating table but, hearing all your arguments, it will be to say "no", at their end Beyond that, on the substance of the question, we find your usual theory. I'm not going to say it's runoff theory, but almost. I translate: if the state is not the carp of banks and multinationals, we are moving towards economic disaster. Here, it is expressed condensedly with the list of all the disasters that will occur if this tax is put in place. I assume that this is in particular countering your plan to make Brussels a city bis, a continental city. It's apparently one of your dreams. How can Belgium deserve to qualify as a tax haven for rich and multinationals with such a tax? Indeed, that would be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u59	Minister, I asked you if you actually said that you wanted to squander the tax on financial transactions. You did not answer that question. I feel like the answer is yes. I asked you if the Prime Minister had called you to tell you that he disagreed with your position. You did not answer that question. I feel like the answer is no. That means we let you do exactly what you want. I find this serious from a political point of view. Like my colleague Mr Calvo, I see the nervousness of some members of the majority. You're making a big gap. On the one hand, you say that you continue to defend the point of view of the government agreement and that, moreover, even the European Commission says that we are good students. On the other hand, you list the arguments on which you do not want a tax on financial transactions. The truth is, you want to sabotage this process using the argument of saving the real economy. But the rescue of the real economy will require measures that prevent finance from harming it, measures that slow down speculation, which make a greater contribution to the income of capital to free up the cost of labour. All this against the background of a serious European political crisis. Faced with this, we need countries that are a little visionary and courageous, as Belgium has always been before you. In this case, in this case, we are neither visionary nor courageous, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u60	Minister, it is still a little confusing. At the beginning of your reply, you say that the negotiations are ongoing. For some countries the plans do not go far enough, for others the plans go too far or too far. It is not clear to me which category Belgium now belongs to. You refer to the praises of the Commission spokesperson. He said that Belgium is very supportive. After that, you are actually listing points that indicate that what is on the table is nothing. That's basically what it's all about. You are giving all kinds of arguments and in fact you are concluding that the present proposal is best disposed of. You say that in Dutch at some point. I don't know what the government's position is now. Just now, during your second answer to Mr Calvo, you used the word personally. I have noted: I personally believe that the present proposal, which is down, is not in line with the terms of the coalition agreement. That's your personal conviction. That doesn't help us much here. We have something to gain from the government's conviction. Does the government think that the proposal on the table is not in line with the coalition agreement? I did not receive an answer to that question. I've been trying to figure out what you said. You said that the safeguarding of the real economy is by no means guaranteed. As far as pension funds are concerned, you say that there are no guarantees that there will be no adverse effects on pension funds. The third element concerns you most, namely the impact on public debt. Are these three elements your personal reasons or is the government also behind those three elements? Does the government give you the mandate to continue with this during the negotiations at European level in the Group of Ten?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u61	These are the concerns expressed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u62	Yes, but you say that these concerns are not met. Is that your personal opinion or does the Prime Minister agree that the current proposal does not guarantee the safeguarding of the real economy and that there are no guarantees that there will be no adverse effects on pension funds? Is that also the Prime Minister's view? That's what I'm talking about today. We can discuss as much as we want. Mr Deseyn, it is not about textexegesis. It's not about that. It's about what the government thinks about the proposal that's on the table. That's what I want to know, but I didn't hear that. I have heard the personal views of the Minister of Finance on this, but not what the government thinks about it. You should be worried about that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u63	The government is one and indivisible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u64	No, the government is not one and indivisible. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u65	We have now dealt with seven questions on a statement by the Minister. If there are seven questions, then a number of questions could be asked, otherwise there would be no seven questions. Minister, the committee is asking for the text on which you are negotiating. You say that the Debt Agency has a number of comments on the tobin tax, as it now stands, for example, that it will have an impact on the liquidity of the sovereign debt. You have suggested that Mr Deboutte from the Debt Agency could come to our committee, but then we should have that text first, because we are discussing it. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to send the text on the latest state of the negotiations to our committee so that we can give everyone the opportunity to read it. Then we can see what we can do with it. Perhaps we should hear not only the Debt Agency, but also an expert. I did not see these discussions here in Parliament in 2004, Mr Van Biesen, but it cannot be that we disagree on a text that we do not know. It may be that there are things that are damaging to the real economy or to public debt, but we must start with that text. I therefore ask you to deliver it to the members of the committee, Minister. We'll be able to look into those cases. Next week, or when it suits us, we can see exactly what is being presented to us, otherwise it will remain a wells-nothing game. That is what a Parliament is for. We should not organise a boxing match on weekends and then discuss what was or was not said and what was or was not in the coalition agreement. I would therefore ask you to deliver that text to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u66	I'll be happy to do that. Moreover, these texts are publicly available on the website of the European Council, Mr President. The content of the latest proposal, which is being discussed, is accessible to all on the website of the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u67	Then can you give us the text? We will not look every day at what is on all possible websites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u68	No, but the European Council's website is...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u69	If you comment on that text, it is important that the committee members know what they are discussing, because the confusion is great. The seven questions are an example of this. I did not hear what the Prime Minister said this morning, but we need to be clear about it by getting that text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u70	Mr President, I fully support your proposal. It seems to me appropriate to have a quiet conversation about the tobin tax, its consequences and the state of affairs today, with the elements that we have at our disposal. It seems to me that there is a great deal of support in this House for the introduction of a tobin tax. It may seem strange to you, but as a liberal, I am fully in favour of continuing to work on this dossier, discussing the tobin tax and discussing it, and seeking as much support as possible in Europe to introduce the tobin tax. The committee must be 100% aware of the state of play. We must be able to examine with knowledge whether the government is adopting the right attitude. We in Parliament have already said in the past that we are in favour of the tobin tax. That was the case at the time for a clear majority in Parliament. We need to see how this can be implemented, who follows it and who does not and what its consequences are. I'd really like to get on with that. I believe that much of the financing of the European Union should be based on financial transaction taxes, customs and excise duties. That would be a completely different form of financing for Europe by our country than it is today. I am happy to enter into this debate in committee, on the basis of all the elements that we have at our disposal. We must not look at the tobin tax cramped, but we must consider with all the elements at our disposal what the impact can be on the economy and growth. On this basis and on the basis of the discussion with Mr Deboutte, we will be informed 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u71	Mr Minister, at the beginning of December I asked a question in plenary about the tax control that was carried out at that time in a number of new economic initiatives within the framework of the collaborative economy. That's when it happened to Airbnb. In December, it was found that the food inspection, together with the tax authorities, also invaded hobby chefs who sell meals over the internet. The tax authorities wanted to check whether they did not collect taxable income that had to be declared. At the beginning of December, we had a brief debate on this in plenary. I said that we want to fully support all these new initiatives on the sharing economy, which are strengthening the social fabric and also new economic initiatives. In addition, we must, of course, also ensure that there is a level playing field between all these different economic initiatives. You confirmed that at the time. Now we're getting a re-report of checks. I wonder how far they go and what they say. I would therefore like to put the following questions to you. Firstly, what is the concrete scope of these inspections on hobby cooks? Secondly, how many inspections took place with hobby cooks offering online meals in 2015? How many inspections took place with hobby cooks who offered their meals via other channels in 2015? Thirdly, what rights does the person have? In the media it was said that the private house is also always accessed during checks. I would have liked to know whether the person concerned can refuse to enter a private home or parts of it. Do the inspectors have an authorisation from the police judge, which is necessary in that case? Fourthly, what volumes of lost taxable income are we talking about in this new sector? Fifthly, will you be working on clear and simple guidelines so that these platforms and users know what the tax implications and regulations are in this respect? In December, I also advocated in plenary a clear and simple regulatory framework in function of new initiatives in the collaborative economy. I think that we need to focus even more on wild controls, which, of course, also have their necessary aim, but it is now particularly important to create a clear framework within which we must stick to and operate. I also argued in December for a distinction between those who occasionally make use of some of those collaborative initiatives, such as sporadic hobby cooks or the sporadic provision of a home or apartment, and those who make quite a lot of economic profits there and thus develop an economic activity. As far as I and my group are concerned, there must be a difference in the approach to these two categories. For some it is a real economic activity, for others it is a sporadic hobby activity that cannot be qualified under regular economic activities. Finally, what are the conclusions of the investigation on Airbnb?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u72	Minister, I would like to endorse Mrs Smaers' basic approach, in particular that we should give every opportunity to new initiatives, both economic and non-profit initiatives, within an equal social and fiscal playing field that is as simple and as low as possible from a fiscal point of view. In this context, a recent visit was made to various hobby cooks and participants of the Airdnd platform, not bnb, but dnd, which is about dining. You had already announced these checks in your policy paper on tax fraud. It goes without saying that they must be treated equally, that there must be a level playing field. In this respect, it is also very good news that you announced last week that an agreement was reached with Uber. Uber will provide the tax authorities with all the information about their drivers' income from the now suspended UberPop, so that effective control can take place. That seems to me to be a very good thing. For other platforms, however, things are not that simple. When it comes to BlaBlaCar, for example, it concerns people who offer a free place in their car and the platform itself calculates the cost or value of that one free seat. This is rather a non-profit story, intended as a cost-sharing application, offering surpluses. That is quite simple because there is no income that needs to be taxed. With the hobby chefs it is more difficult to distinguish between those who do not want to get an income from it. Those who earn an income must be taxed on that income. It may be the sporadic offering of an excess meal, and that is very good in the fight against food dumping, which is also mentioned in the government agreement. The hobby chefs may get an income from this, as can also be found on the website, but there are costs that are equally high or possibly even higher than the income. In order to determine whether or not an unpaid income was collected, the cook concerned must already keep receipts of, for example, the number of packets of sugar he bought. In fact, we cannot expect a hobby cook to be a part-time accountant, let alone hire a bookkeeper part-time to show whether or not he has collected income from a sporadic meal from surplus. In that connection, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the scope of the inspections at the hobby cooks offering a meal online? How many inspections took place? Which platforms are highlighted? Secondly, where is the burden of proof on the acquisition of income? I assume, therefore, that the tax authorities will see that revenue is being generated. One gets an income, i.e. someone who pays for those excess meals. Of course, we have to prove the cost. The burden of proof that it is not really an income may lie with the hobby chef, who has to prove that he has more costs than income. How do you distinguish between cost sharing and the disposal of surpluses at cost and sales for the purpose of obtaining income? How does that work out in concrete terms? Thirdly, what general guidelines can you give to hobby cooks and online platforms in order to increase their legal certainty while keeping the administrative burden as low as possible? I have already given the example of BlaBlaCar, where one automatically calculates for you what one can charge to be cost-sharing and therefore there is no profitable character. The hobby cooks are somewhat more difficult, but I suppose it should be possible to create a framework and provide a general directive in order to provide them with legal certainty and avoid being overly harassed by controls, let alone deter them from offering surpluses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u73	During the inspections at the hobby cooks, on which you have both been alluded, the following four points were examined, among other things. Firstly, the activities are subject to VAT rules and need to be registered, taking into account possible simplification measures, such as the VAT exemption scheme. Secondly, are income in the WIB 92 qualified as professional income? Thirdly, should certain tax obligations be met, such as keeping a diary, issuing receipts or using a registered cash register system? Fourthly, what is the scope of such activities carried out by hobby cooks? In 2015, three hobby cooks offering online meals were checked; in 2016 there was so far 1. For hobby chefs who offer meals via a sales platform, that was 1 check in 2015 and so far 1 in 2016. In principle, responsibility lies with the administration for the burden of proof of the existence of the taxable event and the amount of taxable income. The distinction between cost sharing by selling surpluses at cost and sales for the purpose of acquiring an income is not in itself a relevant criterion for determining whether or not the income referred to by you is taxable. The taxable capacity and the qualification of such income must be assessed in concrete terms on the basis of the actual circumstances of each individual case. The determination of the lost taxable income was one of the intentions of the inspections carried out. At present, precise figures cannot be provided, as the administration only became aware of the number of meals delivered as a result of the inspections carried out. As far as the right of control is concerned, I can say that a private residence can only be entered by FPS Finance officials after the explicit consent of the person concerned. An audit of the private premises or of the fiscally relevant documents located in that private room will therefore only be carried out if, first, an authorisation from a police judge and, second, provided that the person concerned has express consent and after a report of voluntary home visits, signed in advance by the person concerned for agreement. The person concerned may refuse to enter the private residence or parts thereof unless the inspectors are in possession of an authorisation from the police judge. In the inspections we have been talking about so far, these were only preliminary visits which specifically asked the person concerned if the inspectors were given access to the private homes in order to explain the possible tax obligations and asked for information about their activities as hobby cooks. There are therefore no specific guidelines for the intended category of hobby cooks and online platforms. Their income must be qualified, as stated in the answer to question 2, on the basis of the provisions of the Income Tax Code 1992, taking into account the actual circumstances specific to each case. The administration will publish a list of questions and answers in order to clearly recall the applicable tax rules, taking into account the factual circumstances. Finally, one of the authors also referred to Airbnb's tax control. Airbnb's situation is being investigated. For the partners of Airbnb, the tenants, the research is still taking into account the quantity and the wide variety in this field. In that respect, the AA Fisc and the AA BBI are working together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It already clarifies the nature and extent of some of the visits. In my reply, I once again call for clear guidelines and a clear framework in the context of both Airbnb and hobby cooks as well as other forms of collaborative economy. So everyone in the future knows what to stick to. There is also a level playing field and there can be no more problems. I therefore call for a clear framework and clear guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You clearly state that this is not about raids in true Rambo style, as I heard a colleague from the committee say about your anti-fraud plan. These are visits with permission and apparently very limited in number. I do find it problematic that all income will be treated equally. This means that cost sharing initiatives also have to prove costs in order to avoid taxability and include them in professional costs, if necessary. Indeed, people are expected to employ half a hobby in half-time. That's a big deal, isn't it? It seems to me that there is a need for simplification, and it has already been done. You mentioned the administrative tolerance for VAT, with the exemption from VAT for a turnover less than EUR 25 000. Such policies should be extended to other forms of tax regulation. In this way, we can also boost the fight against food waste and encourage consumers to effectively make surpluses available, without expecting them to employ an accountant for their hobby, the supply of surpluses. In the future, we may need to take another step forward and work for profit-driven initiatives with a form of administrative tolerance. Cooperation with such initiatives, for example with Uber, may also be extended to a deduction at source up to a certain limit. That is where we need to find opportunities for simplification and for a level playing field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u76	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about this in committee on 12 January. But having not received an answer to my questions, even if you were more volubile when you addressed the journalists after our meeting, I had to ask you again. In view of the way in which human rights are violated by Saudi Arabia, as well as the way in which it financially maintains the soil of radicalism in the Middle East as in Belgium, it seems to me that we should re-examine our diplomatic, commercial, economic or fiscal relations with that country. In an article published in De Standaard on 27 November, you stated your willingness to interrupt discussions with Saudi Arabia with a view to concluding a possible non-double taxation agreement. However, after the committee meeting on 12 January, you were much less clear about this. Minister, what about the current fiscal relations between Belgium and Saudi Arabia? Is a tax convention applicable between our two countries? If so, how long? Can you tell us the content of this convention? How many cases have been dealt with under the Convention over the past five years? What are the financial volumes involved? Do you confirm the suspension of negotiations for the signing of a new tax treaty between our two countries? If so, are these negotiations suspended provisionally or definitively, or have they resumed? What conditions, particularly with regard to respect for human rights and cooperation in the fight against terrorism, have been laid down by Belgium before these negotiations can be resumed? If negotiations are resumed or resumed, what is the procedure to be used, in particular in collaboration with the federated entities and their parliaments, to ratify such a convention? Finally, what changes are envisaged in Belgium's economic and fiscal policy vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia through this tax convention or through any other convention between our two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u77	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I can confirm that there is no tax convention between Belgium and Saudi Arabia. A tax treaty was negotiated with the country in 2014, but it has not yet been signed and therefore has not entered into force. It is precisely the opportunity to proceed with the signing of this agreement that will be re-evaluated. Let me also stress that ratification must be carried out by political institutions. The Regions are involved at every stage and must also ratify the final convention. The content of the Convention is largely based on the OECD model of a tax convention and the Belgian model. However, some provisions have been drafted in accordance with the United Nations model at the request of Saudi Arabia. The Belgian delegation ensured that the Convention was no less advantageous for economic operators than similar agreements concluded with Saudi Arabia by other Western European States, in particular by the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg. An anti-abuse provision has been incorporated into the Convention in accordance with OECD recommendations under Action 6 of the BEPS Action Plan to avoid the granting of conventional benefits in inappropriate circumstances. Since this Convention is not in force, it has not yet been able to give rise to cases of application. If it were to enter into force, which would imply that it was deemed appropriate to proceed with its signature, the cases of application would likely be numerous. Indeed, Belgian companies operating in Saudi Arabia are numerous, as are those wishing to operate there, as demonstrated by the important economic mission led by Princess Astrid in March 2014. As I have just indicated, the negotiation of the tax convention took place in 2014. The question now is whether or not Belgium will proceed with the signing of this tax convention. This decision is a matter of Belgian sovereignty and does not require any further negotiations with Saudi Arabia. It is this stage that we have decided to temporarily suspend. This tax convention has the nature of a mixed treaty in so far as it also concerns the powers of the federated entities. Thus, the process which may lead to the entry into force of this tax convention will be that laid down in the Cooperation Agreement of 8 March 1994 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the arrangements for the conclusion of the mixed treaties. This will require, inter alia, the signature of the representatives of the federated entities and the consent of their parliaments. With regard to possible changes in Belgium's fiscal policy vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia, it is too early to discuss this as this will be precisely the subject of the reflections to be made on the re-evaluation of the desirability of signing the Convention. The Department of Foreign Affairs is very well placed to make recommendations on this issue and to steer the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u78	Minister, thank you. The framework is much clearer than that of 12 January on the status of the Convention and how it must be ratified in order to be implemented. The intentions for the future are less so. I therefore take note of the fact that the reflections are suspended on the ratification of the text, but also that the federated entities must also give their agreement. I would have liked to hear in your remarks a real concern for Saudi Arabia and for the development of our economic relations so that we could put pressure on Saudi Arabia on its support for, inter alia, the financing of terrorism. In the fight against terrorism, the question of its financing is essential and seems too neglected by the government in comparison to other, more secure, responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u79	Mr. Chair, Minister, every year, an annex to the Ways and Means budget is published as the Inventory of Exemptions, Reductions and Reductions Affecting Government Revenues, abbreviated as the Inventory of Federal Tax Expenditures. The purpose of this inventory is to inform Parliament and citizens of the budgetary cost of tax measures. In particular, these are derogations from the general tax system aimed at achieving certain objectives which could also be pursued through direct expenditure. The purpose of the inventory is to increase budgetary transparency and to establish closer links between tax expenditures and direct expenditures. It is a very useful document for assessing the effects of federal tax policies. Unless I am mistaken, this inventory was not published at the end of last year. The latest figures available were published on 16 December 2014 and relate to the 2013 fiscal year. I must say to you that I am disappointed that at this stage I am not able to dispose of this document, which I am still gratifying with interest. Minister, why wasn't the latest inventory of tax expenditures for the 2014 fiscal year published? When will he be? Can you, pending its publication, provide us with the raw data available? I accept a written answer, because it can take a long time. What means are being used to ensure the annual publication of this document?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u80	Minister, I want to express my astonishment to the extent that this inventory of tax expenditures must be an annex to the budget. In general, this is not the case in other years. It arrives later, usually in December. It's late January and obviously we still don't have that inventory. I asked the committee secretariat if he had. A reminder was going to be made to your firm. Minister, why is the inventory still not available? When will it be? Can we perhaps receive a draft version? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that, in future, the inventory is tabled at the same time as the budget? We are discussing the 2016 budget and we have the 2014 figures. We're already working late. But if we don't have the inventory, the delay is even greater. It doesn't rhyme much anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u81	Colleagues Gilkinet and Van Hees, the federal inventory of tax expenditures, which is an annex to the Ways and Means budget, has not yet been published. It will cover 2013 revenues for direct taxes and 2014 for indirect taxes, personal tax discount and business discount. The inventory is being developed. Unfortunately, due to some missing data, it has not yet been finalized or sent to the House of Representatives for publication. Indeed, we still need to finalize the VAT component of the tax expenditure inventory. We lack some important data for construction, without which the calculation of tax expenditures, following the application of the reduced rates, cannot be carried out. However, reduced rates are the main component of tax expenditure on VAT. It goes without saying that we are making every effort to publish this document as quickly as possible and to avoid future delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u82	Minister, my question looks technical and administrative, but it is not. This is a democratic and budgetary problem. There must be a clear view of the cost of tax cuts. It is felt, when a tax reduction is granted, that this does not cost anything, but this inventory has the merit of proposing in terms of investment subsidies, direct expenditure, indirect expenditure, e.g. on notional interest, patent deductions and tax deductions for personal tax. I therefore very much regret this delay. I ask you to press your administration for this inventory to be completed, published and communicated to Parliament. I plead that there should be no such delays in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u83	Minister, I take note of your answer. This one, however, surprises me. Indeed, if data are missing, it is VAT data that then date from 2014 or 2013, in any case not from 2015. However, the 2016 budget is tabled in the second part of 2015. I can't explain such a delay. Would the cause be due to a lack of staff at FPS Finance? Such a delay in vital information is a matter of concern. Like my colleague, Mr Gilkinet, I am an assiduous reader of this inventory, which is very interesting, because it does learn a lot about a government's tax policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u84	Mr President, it is a shame to have to use oral questions to ask for documents that we had already asked for in the budget discussion. We were promised them, we thought we would receive them until the last moment, then there was a technical problem; then we were in December. It is 26 January and there has been no communication initiative to the Finance Committee. However, Mr. Minister, you have stated that you are open to the provision of this document. I can blame you a lot, but sometimes you give us interesting documents and you show transparency, which I welcome positively. Hence my astonishment that I did not receive this document. We should have had it before the tax shift measures were voted because these are preliminary analyses to have more precise indicators of the good direction that the government is taking in fiscal terms. Minister, do you now have this decile analysis? Can you pass it on to us? What main lessons do you learn from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u85	Mr. Chair, Minister, we had the opportunity to ask you for this document during the budget discussions. I am now doing so in the form of an oral question. I also allowed myself to send you a written question. I can also send you a registered letter to your home, if necessary. Tell us what to do to get this calculation! I assume you're gonna tell us that the FPS Finance is working on it and that as soon as you get it, you'll pass it on to us. In any case, there is a problem in the process. I ask you to divide into deciles the impact of the shift tax on personal tax and the overall tax impact of the shift tax on deciles but on all taxes. The overall tax impact must be measured. By definition, the tax shift impacts taxes upwards and others downwards. I think it was necessary to provide this information before because instead of aiming at the target and then shooting, you shoot and you say that the FPS Finance will calculate the target after. This is similar to the tax shift process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u86	Mr President, I will be as clear as possible – as always. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Hees, this is not the first time that this question has been asked to me. I am fully aware of its very important character in your eyes and I appreciate this insistence. In the last few days, I have personally contacted the Finance FPS. I assure you again that this is not an obvious statistical exercise for this one. I can tell you that the study will be ready for the third week of February. I suppose you'll be questioning me again at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u87	Mr Minister, of course I would have preferred that that would have been the case two months ago. Can you commit yourself already to forwarding the document to the secretariat of the committee so that we can receive it automatically?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u89	We can therefore note that the minister's response is positive. We will then continue the debate on the substance. I reiterate my remarks that it would have been preferable to have had this ex ante evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u90	Minister, this is good news. We now have a date. It would indeed be useful to forward this document to the services. I had asked my question in writing, but I know from experience that you do not have the reputation of being the fastest minister when it comes to answering written questions – as the press reported. It would be silly if I had to wait another nine months!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u91	Mr President, Minister, you know this "forgiving" system of notional interests. That's ironically said. Following a ruling of the Antwerp Court of Appeal commented by the press on this Friday, 16 January, the Belgian state is expected to repay €200 million to the Finnish energy giant Fortum as part of a notional interest file. Fortum had no economic activity or own personnel in Belgium. After a tax check in 2011, the company received a note of salt recovery. Indeed, a total of EUR 200 million in taxes could be avoided thanks to notional interest, an amount which the company was finally ordered to repay. Following the judgment of the Court of Appeal in question, it is now up to the Belgian State to reimburse that amount to that company, which will have an impact on the budget. Minister, do you confirm this decision of the Antwerp Court of Appeal? What are the arguments put forward by the appeal judge to dismiss the Belgian State in this case? Is there an opportunity to challenge this judgment? If so, will you use it? In your opinion, is this ruling likely to make a case law? Are other cases of the same type ongoing? How much? Is it not necessary, on the basis of this judgment, and failing to repeal the law on notional interests, to amend it in order to oblige the recipient companies to prove the existence of a real economic activity proportional to the advantage received in Belgium? Indeed, Fortum has made a very great tax benefit by creating fewer than two jobs in our country. In these circumstances, it must be noted that the employment created is very expensive!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u92	Minister, the Fortum trial is an emblematic case of notional interests. A few years ago, RTBF made a show on all Belgian tax gifts, including notional interests. She interviewed me and asked me what company to go see. I had quoted this one and the television team had gone to Fortum's headquarters to try to find someone without ever getting there so much this society was a ghost society. In fact, I always cited the example of Fortum as a fine demonstration of the positive effect of notional interests on employment. It's also ironically said. Employment in Fortum more than doubled from 0.8 full-time equivalents to 2 full-time equivalents. It is extraordinary as an effect on employment! The ISI considered that there was abuse in this regard. I believe that only one subsidiary of Fortum received loans from the Belgian subsidiary. So, Fortum won an appeal in his tax case. Minister, what was the assembly that the tax authorities considered to be abusive? This is no longer a secret since the case was brought before the courts and, therefore, made public. Do you intend to make any arrangements following this judgment in order, for example, to strengthen the means (legislative or other) of the tax against abuses of notional interests? Is this financial loss of EUR 200 million for public finances, this judicial defeat of the tax system, not one more reason why Belgium should recover the 700 million state aid from the 35 multinationals in terms of excess profit rules? This would make up for the budget. What we have to pay for fortum, we could get it back through excess profit rules. Don't you think that would be a good idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u93	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Van Hees, I can confirm that the Antwerp Court of Appeal has ruled in the Fortum case, but neither I nor the Special Tax Inspectorate have so far received the judgment. Given the importance of the issues raised, you will agree with me that the judgment must first be studied thoroughly. Therefore, I cannot, at this moment, provide more information about this case. As soon as we have this judgment, we will examine the decision and determine on the basis of objective criteria whether an appeal in cassation is possible. In the meantime, I have given the task of the Special Tax Inspectorate to verify whether other similar cases are currently pending before the court. In view of the above, it is still too early to assess whether there is an important precedent and whether this requires a legislative amendment. An appeal in cassation is still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u94	Minister, I sometimes feel that some parliamentarians are more concerned about the interest of public finances than you are as a minister. If I were involved in a trial as heavy as this one, I would make sure that a FPS Finance representative was present on the day of judgment. If I do not have the written document – it would surprise me that in the current timeframe it has not yet arrived – I would at least have an idea of why we were sentenced to a refund of EUR 200 million. You, the Minister of Finance, ten days after the judgment, still do not know why the Belgian State has to repay EUR 200 million. I think it's quite huge. With all due respect, it's huge! I will repeat this question next week and the following week. I urgently ask you to worry a little more about the consequences of a judgment than you do here. Let's imagine that other companies like Fortum are asking for reimbursement and getting it. What new hole in public finances and tax revenues will this cause? Some bad news has already been added at the time of the fiscal year. That doesn't seem to worry you. I'm worried that you're not worried about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u95	Minister, I take note of your non-response on the merits. You're referring us back to later as in other questions. Fortum is a bit of a caricature of what notional interests are in general: large multinationals can deduct huge amounts by not creating real activity in Belgium. This is the reality of notional interests. This decision, whether or not we go to cassation, is a signal in relation to that. The PTB has tabled a bill to remove notional interests. That would be a good signal to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants and Question No 8646 Mr Van Biesen's 8654 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u97	Mr President, I am almost embarrassed to come up with such slight questions in relation to such heavy issues as those I have heard for an hour. But these are practical issues that still need to be addressed in relation to the application of VAT on cosmetic surgery. Minister, how should pre-operative consultations by an anaesthetist, surgeon or other physician be treated before a decision is made as to whether to perform cosmetic surgery? It's a detail, but we need to be able to respond to the doctors involved. I would like to ask you my second question, if you will. When an operation takes place in a hospital, by whom should VAT be collected? By the hospital or the medical provider? These are practical cases, but they must be resolved so that people can work properly and fulfil their VAT obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u98	Colleagues, I would like to reiterate to this committee that, from 1 January 2016, during an aesthetic intervention, it is the complete treatment that is subject to VAT, from admission to departure of the patient, as well as the hospital stay. Therefore, all the services inherent in, or which coincide with, this procedure, including pre-operative consultations with the cardiologist, anaesthetist, surgeon or any other physician, are subject to VAT. The same applies to the provision of services by paramedical practitioners that are performed in close cooperation and under the supervision and responsibility of a physician or surgeon involved in a pre-operative development of cosmetic surgery. On the other hand, there is no aesthetic character to require VAT, admission consultations not coupled with such an intervention, in which the doctor gives a diagnosis about a possible intervention, as well as the examinations prior to that diagnosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u99	VAT therefore applies from the patient's entry to his/her exit. That's clear. Thank you. What about my second question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u100	I will answer you later because I do not have a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 8698 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u102	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, this is a time-consuming and irritating detail. Certain public warrants must be declared under the heading of income from professions or other gainful occupations. On a regular basis, the tax authorities communicate this information to the social insurance funds, which ask public officials whether they are independent or not. Anyone who forgets to answer receives social contributions to pay. It's an unpleasant thing that could be simplified. In addition, when the public agent also carries out a liberal profession or a VAT activity, social contributions are aggregated and calculated on the whole. They're useless upsets. Mr Minister, would it not be possible, as some intercommunals, municipalities and provinces do, to issue a 281.10 card, which would not be a problem, rather than a 281.20 or 281.30 card? I do not see why this would not be possible since some intercommunals have practiced this way since it was decided that certain things should be declared. In order to avoid problems, some intercommunals have decided to make a ruling. Should this not be possible, would it not be possible to ask the tax administration to distinguish between self-employed income and income from political mandates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u103	Mr Piedboeuf, the tokens of presence constituting profits must indeed be mentioned on a tax sheet 281.30. In the absence of any reference to the status of public agent of the beneficiary of the income, this form does not allow the distinction to be drawn between, on the one hand, tokens of presence subject to the social contributions of the self-employed and, on the other hand, tokens of presence which are not subject to it. The fact that personal data that would not be of tax benefit are mentioned on the tax card is in contradiction with privacy legislation. Moreover, since such statements would be obtained for non-tax purposes, tax officials would not have the power to control them. Since Form 281.10 is intended to refer to the remuneration of workers, it cannot be used for the purpose of mentioning the tokens of presence granted to public agents when they are to be qualified as profits. In the absence of the authority to know the status of public agent and given the impossibility for it to control it, the alternative solution, which is not to include in the figures submitted to INASTI the amount of revenue from public office, is neither possible nor timely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u104	Minister, I don't understand. Intercommunals, in particular the Intercommunal for Economic Development in the Province of Luxembourg, issue fact sheets 281.10 to avoid this problem. From the time that neither the tax nor the social insurance fund makes a distinction, a public agent who does not pay social contributions on his or her income as a political agent. I'm sorry, but we need a solution. That's not possible. How should the problem be solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u105	I'm going to find out more in detail. That seems somewhat contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u106	I know of cases where social security contributions have been calculated on large revenues from political agents. After four or five years, this represented thousands of euros, simply because the caisse received the communication of the total amount in box 1650 for example. It is often added to box 1600, a big soup is made with all this, and social contributions are applied to this. I know obvious cases. Anyone who has only tokens of presence declared as profits or income from a gainful activity and who does not respond to the social insurance fund will receive social contributions to be paid. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u107	This question comes from the green SME party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u108	Mr President, that is suddenly news, but that is not really new. That phrase was used a few months ago, but I'm glad she's getting more and more fluttering. We have also mentioned this subject in this Chamber, Minister, in the context of your policy paper. It was then about the desirable and necessary reform of our corporate tax system. You indicated with your policy paper that you are actually open to dealing with corporate tax. As far as I am concerned, this corporate tax needs to be considerably simplified and can also use a solid dose of fairness to close the huge gap between the nominal rate and the actual contributions of some multinationals and to make corporate tax a lot more SME-friendly. As far as we are concerned, 2016 must be the year of just, simple corporate taxes, a year of corporate tax reform. I had the pleasure of sharing the studio with a number of colleagues about ten days ago. Colleague Van Rompuy and colleague Van Biesen also had the conviction that this can be changed in corporate tax. On the basis of all these elements, I would like to ask you the following questions. In the meantime, are your plans to reform corporate tax a lot more concrete? Then what are the outlines for such a reform for you? At the time, you suggested that perhaps we should leave the choice between a low nominal rate and a higher nominal rate combined with a number of deductions and exceptions. Is that the thought trail you're following? By what time do you intend to be able to formulate concrete ideas in this House? Has a trial started yet? What are the main evaluation points on the current situation? I'll leave you in the middle who needs to be asked, because that's a sensitive subject, including in your cabinet. How are academics involved? How are employers' organisations involved? Do you find it interesting to launch a representative task force for these reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u109	In my plan to combat tax fraud, to which you yourself have just correctly applied, I have already clearly stressed the importance of reforming taxation. This reform must lead not only to more simplicity and justice, but also to more efficient collection of taxes and thus to a reduction of fraud. A corporate tax reform could be part of a greater reform and simplification of the entire tax system. However, it goes without saying that a reform must be carried out with caution. Anyone who knows the complexity of our legislation will agree with that. Mr Calvo, I really assume that you are convinced that there must be a consensus on this at government level too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u110	Mr President, (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u111	Imagine that. There must therefore be a consensus at government level. In my capacity as Minister of Finance, I would like to pay particular attention to the international developments which are taking place today at a rapid pace or which, more precisely, are evolving at a rapid pace and which could put pressure on our current corporate tax system, including the efforts to harmonise taxation and tax matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u112	Mr Calvo, are you still hungry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u113	Mr President, I am just a little hungry. Minister, I was hoping that we would have passed that stage. You have expressed the ambition in your policy paper to look at corporate taxation in my question. Eminent MEPs of the majority expressed the wish to start that dossier in 2016. You are now replying that this could possibly be considered within a given framework, subject to consensus within the government and taking into account international developments. That's too flou for me. I expect more action from a party that thinks it has to or dare to change. I have asked you the question of the time limit within which you think you will be able to formulate concrete pistes and whether that is your ambition at all, for example, by suggesting that a corporate tax task force should be set up. You don't answer all that. That's too bad. I expect more action and ambition from a future Messenger. At least that's a standard in our city.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u114	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer has been postponed to 8698. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers has converted 8761 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 8763 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top has deleted 8780 because we have not heard from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u115	Mr President, Minister, on 30 June 2015, I asked you about your intentions regarding possible cadastral equalization and your answer was as follows: "I did indeed ask for a study to determine the operational means necessary to carry out a possible updating of cadastral revenues. It is forbidden to act eagerly. Moreover, the government agreement does not provide for anything." The question followed a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which called into question the method of valuation of real property by the Federal State. It can be concluded from your answer that the government does not wish to move forward on this point during this legislature. This is hardly surprising since the income from the real estate discount is entirely paid to the Regions and the municipalities. If I come back to you on this subject, it is following an initiative of some Brussels municipalities which invite the owners to update the data concerning their property so that they can then carry out a re-evaluation of the cadastral income and therefore the real estate discount. However, article 494 of the Code states that apart from general equalizations, it is the responsibility of the General Administration of Heritage Documentation to assess and re-evaluate real property. Minister, do you have the results of the study requested from FPS Finance about cadastral equalization? Have you been aware of the initiatives taken by some municipalities to update the cadastral information of certain dwellings? What is your attitude to these initiatives? What do you intend to do to enforce equal treatment between taxpayers since, according to the Code, this is the responsibility of the General Administration of Heritage Documentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u116	Mr Dispa, the general equalization of cadastral income is not on the agenda. At this stage, I confirm to you that there is a technical note from the administration containing different alternatives. In any event, I would point out that this method will require a thorough study before it can be retained. The initiative of some municipalities to inform the owners of the condition of the property situated on their territory is based on the ability of these municipalities to inform changes in real estate and to participate, with the services of the Cadastre, in the expertise to be carried out. It is only then that these services properly apply the provisions of the Income Tax Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u117	Minister, thank you for your answer, which has the merit of being very clear. As far as the technical note is concerned, I understand that it does not commit you and that it does not commit the government in any way. However, would it be possible to receive a copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u118	Question No 8785 by Mr Luk Van Biesen was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u119	Mr President, there was already a hole in the ozone layer. This is now the one in the VAT revenue which worries me just as much. Minister of Finance, VAT is an important part of the state's tax revenue – about a quarter of the total, or about €27 billion, according to FPS Finance statistics for recent years. It should therefore be ensured that it is properly perceived. The European Union's figures in terms of VAT tax gap attest that this is not simple. According to the latest statistics published last autumn by the Directorate-General for Taxation (DG Taxud), in 2013 Belgium's VAT gap amounted to 10.5% of the amount to be collected and in 2012 to 11.2%. These are the last two years studied by Eurostat. This gap represents the loss of VAT revenue, which is due to non-declaration, control or recovery. The causes of this situation should be identified and the best responses should be considered. It seems that this gap, as calculated by the European Union for 2013, has its origin more in classical VAT fraud than in major fraud and, above all, in the so-called VAT carousel fraud, on which the finance administration has worked a lot in the past. Minister, do you confirm the figures published by DG Taxud for 2012 and 2013? Do you have more recent figures, especially for 2014? Do they agree with the trend for the previous two years? Why are these data not included in the annual reports published by the FPS Finance? What do you think are the reasons for these worrisome revenue losses? In its study, the Commission calls for an in-depth reform of VAT collection systems in Europe. What about Belgium? What is being implemented by your services to improve VAT control and, therefore, reduce this costly gap for public finances? What is your 2015 and 2016 target in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u120	Minister, the VAT gap is important. Moreover, everything is in Belgium, not in terms of the European average, but in comparison with neighbouring countries. Why does FPS Finance not publish such data? What are the causes of such an important gap? The press reports several causes, but I would like to know their respective weight. What's the main one, if there's one? Does this VAT problem reflect Belgium's more general inadequacy in the fight against tax fraud or, more precisely, does it attest to the extent of it? Indeed, studies show that Belgium is clearly above the other European countries or, at least, the neighbouring countries. What do you intend to do to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u121	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Hees, the study to which you refer is the latest edition of the annual study entitled Study to quantity and analysis of the VAT gap in EU Member States. The study shows that the VAT gap in Belgium is not only below the European average but also slightly lower in recent years. It was carried out at the request of the European Commission by the Polish research centre CASE and therefore not by Eurostat. The last edition was presented in early September 2015 and consists of an update of similar studies from previous years. Each update shall include, in addition to extending the time series, a revision of the previous estimates. According to the most recent publication, the VAT gap or VAT gap for our country is estimated in 2013 at some 3.2 billion euros or about 10.5% of the VAT theoretically due. For 2012, the estimated value was EUR 3.4 billion and 11.2% of the theoretically due VAT respectively. The next update is not expected until the end of 2016 with, among other things, results for 2014. It should be stressed that the so-called "top down" estimate of the tax gap, as carried out by CASE, is in the first place a statistical exercise carried out on the basis of national accounts. The latter aim to give, as far as possible, a comprehensive view of economic activity. They are therefore based not only on administrative sources but also on estimates for undeclared and similar activities. CASE calculates VAT theoretically due for each Member State of the European Union on the basis of national accounts. The difference between VAT and VAT actually collected gives the VAT gap estimate. It has already been found in the past that the theoretically due VAT estimates may differ from year to year. This may result from both updates to national accounts and methodological adjustments introduced by CASE. As a result, the VAT gap estimates for a given year may be subject to changes, even if the actual revenue received and the efforts and results of the administration's work are not changed at all. It is important to note that the CASE method does not allow for the distribution of the VAT gap between sectors or the detection of its causes. As a result, a top down estimate is not an appropriate tool to be included in a report on the activities of tax administrations, such as the annual report published by the FPS Finance. The fight against VAT fraud, particularly against organised intra-Community VAT fraud, was, in any event, and remains, a permanent focus in the control strategy of the FPS Finance administration. In this way, it continuously strives to modernize collection and control procedures and to improve administrative collaboration with national and foreign administrations. The possibilities for a thorough reform of the VAT system at national level with a view to making it more resistant to fraud are currently extremely limited by the strict contours of existing European legislation. This is why the European Commission's services have announced that in the medium term they will themselves make proposals to adapt this European regulation, so that national VAT systems are made more structurally robust in the face of organised VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u122	Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer. You feel that this tool is not entirely appropriate. However, it has the merit of being able to take an external look at the effectiveness of our VAT system. For my part, I believe that this is an interesting and interesting indicator. You say that we are below the European average in terms of non-perception of VAT and nevertheless above our closest neighbours. This aspect deserves to be taken into account by your administration and yourself in the interests of tax efficiency. Indeed, the proper collection of tax is essential. In terms of 2012 and 2013, it turns out that more than 3 billion VAT are not paid each year, which cannot leave us indifferent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u123	Mr Minister, it must be noted that you have problems with the figures when it comes to VAT. This was already the case in the tax expenditure inventory. Having said that, I wonder about the importance of fraud in our country. International studies show that fraud in Belgium is important. In this case, we are talking about 3 billion for VAT alone. If the figures are of this nature with regard to tax evasion of natural persons, companies and fraud of inheritance rights, it is normal that a total figure of between 20 billion and 30 billion, according to estimates, should be reached. In my opinion, it would be really useful to work on a fraud barometer. It would be appropriate for the minister responsible for tax fraud to think about it and make the decision to create such a barometer. This would make it possible to quantify, each year, and not at random from a university or institute study, the level of tax evasion, regardless of the method adopted. This would provide an indication of the extent of the problem. I would like to remind you that this is a matter of 20 billion losses every year. This barometer could provide an opportunity to see how the problem could be addressed. In addition, it would also measure whether the fight against tax evasion is achieving its objectives or whether it is a blow to the water. We can take action, but the problem is that fraudsters also take action. How can we know if we are not losing speed compared to the instruments that fraudsters design?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u124	Mr President, Minister, on the occasion of a hearing held on Wednesday 21 January in the Finance Committee, Mr Karel De Boeck confirmed his departure, within a few months, from the Dexia Group of which he has been the CEO since August 2012. This departure was mentioned the day before by the economic press, but also those of two other members of the group's management committee, namely its financial director, the Frenchman Pierre Vergnes, and the Belgian Claude Piret, who had to take his pension in a few months. Given the time it takes to manage Dexia risk, it is clear that the group needs to learn how to manage this type of situation. However, it is a delicate course for a group that would lose at the same time its CEO, a leader who has a good knowledge of the history of the group - Claude Piret - as well as a fairly young financial director who could have ensured the continuity of the management of the file in the short term. Minister, how does the federal government track the bank's risk in resolution of Dexia? Do you regularly receive a report on the evolution of the group's situation? What is your reading of this triple start? Is it not a symptom, at least in Mr Vergnes' head, of difficulties within Dexia? How does Dexia intend to ensure management continuity based on these three announced departures? Does the government intend to ask Mr. De Boeck for an extension of his term as CEO of Dexia? If this is not the case or if it is refused, what procedure will be followed to provide for its replacement? Has the government ever sought a successor to Mr. From Boeck? What's the profile you're looking for? When should a decision be taken on this matter? If this decision has been made, can you give me the name of Mr. From Boeck?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u125	My colleague, I am fully aware of the importance of the Dexia dossier to our country. Therefore, I am with all due attention. My strategic unit and I are constantly informing all stakeholders, including management and oversight bodies. As indicated by Mr. From Boeck at the hearing on 20 January 2016 in front of this commission, all the actors on this issue depend on an uncertain and unpredictable future. Every effort is made to minimize and manage risks. Unfortunately, we cannot exclude adverse events (The Black Swan). Excellent management does not always allow you to guard against such events. The departures of Messrs. De Boeck and Piret stem from their desire to retire. I can only live up to that wish. I regret Mr Vergnes' decision to leave his position as CFO, but can only take note of this decision. Everyone has the right to pursue his or her professional career as he or she sees fit, making the best possible decisions. The succession of Mr. De Boeck and the appointment of new persons to posts that have become vacant are actively prepared. The desired CEO profile must have an excellent technical knowledge of the banking world, combined with excellent managerial qualities both internally and externally. The SFPI is currently looking at this aspect of the process and is keeping me informed. I have met with my French counterpart, Mr Michel Sapin, on several occasions on this subject. I hope that this procedure can be concluded in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u126	Minister, you confirm the follow-up to the file. That's the least I can do. Its strategic importance is obvious. As the recruitment is under way, you did not solicit Mr. From Boeck for an extension of his term of office. Some financial information sites are already quoting names, which you do not confirm to me. I prefer the first place in parliament to leaks in the press, but this is probably not your responsibility. I would like to advise you not to delay in finding Mr. De Boeck to ensure continuity. I do not hide from you all our concern about the management of this file. Yes, Mr. De Boeck and his teams have, apparently, done their utmost to prevent Dexia from posing a short-term problem, in the medium and long term, I think we have not yet come out of the difficulties. This problem will therefore have to attract the attention of the succeeding Finance Ministers, starting obviously with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic320x.u127	In order to free you, Minister, I turn my questions Nos. 8819, 8820 and 8826 into written questions. Question No 8860 by Mr Marco Van Hees is postponed.
