ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u1	Mr President, Minister, so that pensioners can maintain their standard of living, it is important that there is a second and a third pillar on top of the statutory pension. Today, 70% to 80% of employees have a supplementary pension through the employer. The coalition agreement requires us to extend the second pillar, which you obviously know. You have therefore launched the proposal to individualise that second pillar so that all employees can benefit from group insurance. This is logical, because small companies are not always able to take out low-cost group insurance, which often means that the employees of these small companies do not have that advantage. That proposal has been criticised by the Academic Council. The Council is in favour of extending the second pillar, but fears that your proposal will encourage employers to reduce the second pillar, which will save the weaker members of society less for their pensions. That is why I would have liked to know from you whether the criticism of the Academic Council came to your attention. The employers and the insurance sector do not share the fears of these experts, as I understand it. What is your position? Can you agree with that criticism? What else will you do with that advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u2	The Academic Council took the initiative to inform me in advance of the publication of its policy letter on the introduction of a free supplementary pension for employees. I thanked the board for that. I did not, of course, oppose the publication because, as I told the Council, I respect its independence. I have indicated that I do not share his point of view in this letter. I take note of his concerns and show me my willingness to think about a possible solution. I have drawn the Council's attention to the fact that a type of free supplementary pension for employees already exists in the supplementary pensions law, in particular in Article 33. I asked the Council whether together we could improve the contours of the possibility provided for in Article 33. In this way, we can offer employees an additional tool to build up a supplementary pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u3	Minister, I am very pleased with that clear answer. For me, a good pension actually consists of four pillars, taking into account that a home is also a very important pillar. There is the statutory pension in which we carry out a reform and at the same time we want to keep it affordable for the government. This second pillar is also very important to me, and we will discuss it in the coming months. Of course, there are no 27 ways of making that possible for everyone. If the employer doesn't do that today, then bad luck, point is on the line. We must continue along this path and, of course, take into account comments and reservations from the field, so as not to create undesirable side effects, which cannot be the intention. It must be the ambition to provide as many people as possible with a supplementary pension. If that can be done through individualization, the better. If there are even better options, we would like to hear them from the Academic Council, as long as we make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on April 19, the Ombudsman for Pensions provided you with his annual report. It notes that poverty continues to affect pensioners, and especially many of them do not know that they are entitled to the income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA). I had already alerted you on 20 April in committee to the situation of additional inequality which would lead to your reform of the ceilings. The Ombudsperson's observation on the precarisation of pensioners reinforces my concern. The proposed solution, in addition to an awareness-raising campaign to inform the public about this GRAPA, is the inclusion in the legislation of a provision that would automatically examine the rights to GRAPA for all from the age of 65. Minister, are you in favour of this proposal by the Ombudsman for Pensions to include in the law an automatic examination for all from age 65 in order to limit the risks of precariousness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u5	Mr President, Mr Daerden, the Federal Pension Service automatically examines the right to GRAPA for employed and self-employed persons who reach the age of 65. The right to GRAPA is also automatically examined if the person concerned applies for a pension under a Belgian pension scheme, receives an allowance for disabled persons or receives an income from integration. Taking into account this latter group shows that the most disadvantaged seniors already benefit from an automatic examination. In short, any person with a disability who receives a social integration income or who applies for a pension under one of the pension schemes already benefits from the automatic examination. The persons who do not currently have an ex officio examination are statutory officials, citizens who have not had a professional career and pensioners who, at the age of 65, were not entitled to the income guarantee, but whose financial situation has deteriorated to such an extent that they can, at some point, benefit from GRAPA. Much of the problem with regard to civil servants has already been rectified. Indeed, with the creation of the Federal Pension Service and the integration of the two services, an ex officio examination for them is envisaged. Of course, in general, they are not entitled to GRAPA, since their pensions are higher. Nevertheless, many of them have a very short career and could therefore claim to do so. On the other hand, it is not possible to provide for a regular automatic examination for pensioners who have not had a professional career. The SFP database must comply with very strict rules and apply only to persons who have completed a professional career. Public social action centres, social services and trade union organisations fulfil their social role as regards the right to GRAPA for their "clients" or members. These key players are particularly at the heart of an awareness-raising campaign on GRAPA, organized by the National Pensions Office, as was the case in 2011. These actors in the field are in fact best placed to inform their "clients" or their members. I will propose to the Federal Pension Service to consider a new campaign of this kind. Finally, let me reassure you, Mr. Daerden, about the impact of the reforms on the risk of poverty for older people, since the reforms we are undertaking will not push them into precariousness. On the contrary, recent studies by the Federal Planning Office and the Aging Studies Committee indicate that extending careers will help to increase pension levels and reduce the risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u6	Minister, I thank you for your answers, which allow you to be reassured as to the automatic nature of many pensioners. Unfortunately, it is perhaps those who have the greatest risk of precarization that cannot be directly involved, given the database. I find this regrettable because it is they who, despite the awareness campaign, will not take the step. Consideration would therefore be needed to see how this flow of information could be improved in order to identify those persons who might have GRAPA. This reflection must be carried out collectively and not only at the level of CPAS, which do not have the appropriate tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u7	Minister, a press release from the Belga Agency on April 10, informed us of your government's intention to remove the preferential years after the work of the National Pension Committee on taking account of the tenability of certain functions. This communication is both reassuring and disturbing. It could be reassuring because these tantèmes would not be removed until there was agreement on penitibility. Will this be at the end of the work of the National Pension Committee or at the end of the adoption of the texts? I would like to know your position on this aspect. This will have an impact on those who would see their preferential fifths abolished while they could become penitential without being there because the texts would not yet be adopted. A second element of concern is that this will not necessarily concern the same people. There may be a recovery of notions but not necessarily. For people who would not be involved in the recovery of notions, there will be a reduction in their pension. Will this apply to future workers in these categories of persons or will it apply in part to persons in more or less advanced careers. What is your position on this? I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what is the status of the work on penitibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u8	Mr Minister, the government agreement stipulates that the preferential tantiemes will not be abolished until the end of the National Pension Committee's work on taking account of the gravity of working pension rights. The introduction of these reforms will also be entrusted to the National Pension Committee, in which the Communities are represented. You will note that the budgetary effects of abolishing preferential tantiemes will help to supplement the budget envelope which the government will set up with a view to granting favourable pension arrangements to workers who can benefit from recognition of the gravity of the work. In the context of the changes to the preferential tantièmes, I quote: 'It is the intention of an outdated system to evolve into a system in which the changed reality of the world of work is integrated.' Minister, we support that view. Productivity and workload in our economy have increased dramatically over the past few decades. It is therefore only logical that, since the productivity of the employee has been increased overall, employees should be entitled to a less long career and more favourable early retirement schemes. I have the following specific questions for you, Minister. Firstly, what is the status of the National Pension Committee with its work on hard work? Secondly, what budgetary margin do the current governments provide for heavy work arrangements? Thirdly, Minister, are you prepared to include increased productivity in our economy as a criterion for assessing employees' pension rights? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions, it is true that the tyranny preferences will be abolished, but, contrary to what some are trying to make believe, they will be replaced by new tyrannies linked to recognition of penitibility. It is in fact a matter of moving to a system of privileges of the 19th century to a modern system based on the reality of the functions provided. The question of the tantèmes is therefore linked to the discussion on the tenability of certain functions. It was also agreed that measures to abolish the preferential period and the coefficients of increase would be taken at the same time as those introducing more favourable pension arrangements for those posts which received recognition of hardship. The debate on penitibility is currently under way in the National Pensions Committee. The objective of this debate is to define objective criteria that will allow the determination of difficult functions. It will then be necessary to determine which relaxations relating to the right to a pension will be attached to the difficult duties. So for the time being, I cannot position myself on this or that criterion because I do not want to short-circuit social consultation. I reiterate, however, that the budgetary savings associated with the abolition of the current tantamounts will contribute to the budgetary envelope to be set by the government for the granting of more favourable pension arrangements to workers receiving recognition of penitibility. In addition, the Government considered that the acquired rights should be respected, so that the years prior to the date of entry into force of the new provisions will continue to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension on the basis of the years applicable under the old scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is therefore the date of the introduction that will be the trigger for the deletion. It seems to me quite logical, but I preferred to be reassured about that. Compared to the coverage of the impact – the economy of one allowing to cover the cost of the other – there would still be regime shifts. There will be tantèmes in the public service system and painful trades in other regimes. There could be diet slides. What would be the modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u11	The savings resulting from the abolition of the tantèmes will help to fuel the budget envelope, which will be something other than strict savings in tantèmes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u12	I understand that the years before the entry into force will continue to be useful for the application of the previous system of the Tanths. The tyrannical preferences that sometimes go back many years find their origins for reasons other than penitibility. This means that these other reasons will be completely removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a strong increase in productivity and quite a few studies show the increase in burnout, long-term diseases. Is the question of increasing productivity in an interprofessional way integrated into the debate on labour penitibility? Are you contemplating that certain occupational categories which will not be recognized as heavy trades will be able to lose between 200 and 300 euros gross monthly pension? Is this option on the table for certain categories that will not be recognized, such as rolling personnel or firefighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I must say that I was somewhat surprised when I learned some information. In Belgium, polygamous marriages are prohibited by article 147 of the Belgian Civil Code. However, at present, it must be noted that some women must share their survivor's pension with another woman, or even several, living abroad. This is due to bilateral agreements between Belgium and Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. The National Pension Board (ONP) is then required to pay a survivor's pension to several wives of a deceased husband. Minister, can you tell me how many polygamous marriages are listed in our country? How many people do they benefit from this system of distribution of the survivor's pension? Are measures envisaged to reduce these practices? And are you considering renegotiating these old bilateral conventions, which seem to me quite surreal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u15	Mr President, Minister, my question is part of the broader issue of respect for women. Respect for women is not at the top of the agenda in all political circles. We have recently had an illustration of this within the French Greens. Polygamy is one of the components of this non-compliance. As by chance, it exists in one direction, but not in the other. We don't allow a woman to have six husbands, (...): It's discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u16	Perfectly! In this context, a question has recently been asked about pension allowances paid to widows from polygamous marriages under Article 24 of the Belgian-Moroccan Convention on Social Security. In your view, it is not necessary to go back to this article because, as Morocco has banned polygamy in its 2004 legislation, this phenomenon is in the process of extinction. But according to the press, these facts also concern Tunisian and Algerian cases. Although polygamy is well prohibited in Tunisia, it is not entirely prohibited in Algeria. Moreover, some women's rights defenders in Tunisia denounce a practice that is still very real in practice, despite the ban. Minister, my questions are as follows. Are there many Tunisian and Algerian cases and, if so, what is your position on this? I believe that there is no convention on this matter. If this situation is proven, can you provide me with exact figures on the number of cases for each nationality? In total, how many of these widows benefit from GRAPA to compensate for the lack of income? From what year do you think we should no longer be faced with such a situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u17	Mr President, I should first like to make it clear that I have already had the opportunity to reply to Mrs Becq on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u18	So you're referring to your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u19	Yes, but I will complete this one because since then I have undertaken one or the other complementary approach. The question finally concerns the state of the social security conventions between Belgium and Morocco, on the one hand, Algeria and Tunisia, on the other, as well as the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 15 December 2014 concerning the distribution of the survivor's pension in the event of polygamy. The above-mentioned agreements provide in particular that the widow's pension shall be distributed among the beneficiaries under the conditions laid down in the personal status of the insured person. Since the conditions of validity of the marriage are governed, in principle and for each of the spouses, by the law of the State of which he is a national at the time of the celebration of the marriage, it is possible that the survivor's pension may be shared among the different spouses of the deceased person. This is tantamount to indirectly recognizing some form of polygamy. In order to remedy this situation, I have sent a letter to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who are responsible for this matter, in order to examine with them the possibilities of renegotiating the bilateral agreements mentioned above. The aim is to quickly set up a working group which will bring together the Pensions, Social Affairs and Foreign Affairs offices and will be responsible for examining the problem and formulating proposals for a solution. As far as Mr Clarinval's questions are concerned, I can tell you that according to the information given to me by the office of the Minister of the Interior, 179 files of natural persons registered in the national register – an observation date of 23 April 2016 – refer to a possible polygamous marriage. Of these 179 persons, 143 are currently registered in a Belgian municipality. The remaining 36 people stay abroad. However, I would like to make it clear that this is an indication of a possible polygamous marriage. Indeed, the circular of 16 January 2013 of the Federal Internal Public Service asks the communes of the Kingdom to no longer register, in the future, a polygamous union except in the event that a judicial decision passed in force res judicata would order it. The circular also stipulates that polygamous marriages which have already been entered in the population registers must be deleted on the initiative of the municipal administrations. I would like to inform Mr.Clarinval that in 2015, out of 338 deceased spouses, 587 surviving spouses were paid a partial survivor's pension according to the figures provided to me by the SPF Pensions. With regard to Mr Flahaux's questions, I can tell you that on the basis of the payments recorded for January 2016 in his datawarehouse, the SPF Pensions has identified 602 beneficiaries of a split survival pension. The files examined show that these beneficiaries are either Moroccan or Algerian. Only one person of Tunisian nationality has been identified. Finally, I would like to inform you that 92 of them receive a GRAPA, a benefit linked to their actual residence in the national territory. Irrespective of the possible renegotiation of the bilateral agreements concerned, it is likely that the number of persons receiving a split survivor's pension will be gradually reduced, as the countries in question impose increasingly restrictive conditions on polygamous marriage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u20	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Even if a question similar to mine had already been asked, I directed mine on different aspects. In any case, thank you for the very complete figures. I also take note of the future establishment of a working group to study the issue and review bilateral conventions. Like my colleague Flahaux, I believe that this situation is simply no longer acceptable in our democratic country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u21	Mr President, I share my colleague's remarks and thank the minister. Mr Minister, I wonder whether the working group, in the light of the extremely interesting figures you have given us, should not be globalizing with the case of Algeria. Indeed, if there is a convention with Morocco, I do not think that is the case for Algeria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u22	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u23	So you're going to review the two conventions? [[Sentiment]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u24	Minister, we have recently been asked about the problem of reception parents. Since 1 April 2003, a kind of social protection has been developed for reception parents. Often reception parents worked in the voluntary sphere and received a fee that was not taxed. Then the demand for social protection arose, including a holiday period, a scheme for periods of illness and the building up of pension rights. Apparently, there's a couple of welcome parents retiring right now. That is why the question arises as to whether they are entitled to a full pension, what pension rights they have acquired and the like. I don't know if you've been confronted with those questions. Nor do I know whether you have received an official question from the Communities. The reception parents wonder whether a tie-up of the fees for the period prior to 2003 is technically and budgetaryly possible. I ask that question because otherwise the problem will not be looked at or examined. I would just like to mention a perverse element to illustrate the gravity of the situation. Anyone who retires as a welcome parent would be able to divorce from the real world and apply for a divorce pension, which would mean that the amount for the years before 2003 could count. A divorce pension covers the period during which the person concerned took care of the children at home and had an income below a certain ceiling. In this way, even if some of the rights could be built up, it would be possible to do so. The problem is therefore somewhat broader than one would think at first sight. I do not want to say that people are advised to divorce, but I would like to give this reasoning. Minister, what is your opinion on this dossier? Will regularisation be considered or investigated for reception parents who were active before 2003? Of course, there must be sufficient evidence for this. Do you have any data or estimates on the number of reception parents who were active before 2003 and will retire over the next five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u25	As you know, the status of the petitioned reception parents is one of the powers of the Communities. However, in 2003 the government created a statute for the convening reception parents. Prior to this date, the conflicted reception parents could not build up pension rights, which meant that no deductions were made on their income. As a result, the Federal Pension Service does not have their career data for the period before 2003. It is therefore not possible to tell you how many convenient reception parents who have had such a career before 2003 will retire within the next five years. Moreover, the lack of registration of the periods performed as a conventional reception parent before 2003 makes the introduction of a system of regularisation impossible for the periods concerned. It is therefore a technical problem and not a legal one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u26	Minister, this is a real problem and perhaps it should not be viewed purely financially at federal level. The question can also be asked to what extent there is a possibility of regularisation. As can be done for years of study, such a period could also be provided for here. You refer to the technical problem of registration. I can understand that pension services do not have this information, but I can imagine that the Communities or the services to which they were affiliated, but without a statute, do have it. There were checks at that time, reports were made, people were paid, also by the reception parents, so there must be data available there. I can understand why you say that it is a technical problem, but I think that a number of cases can be resolved legally, provided that a number of evidence elements can be brought forward. Then there is the question of whether you are prepared to examine the possibilities and, if necessary, whether there could be a system whereby regularisation with a possible financial contribution of your own could be possible. After all, it is a valuable profession that is increasingly being exercised less and less. More and more reception parents are quitting, with all the problems this entails for the Flemish Community, and I suspect the same for the French Community. If we are talking about the combination of family and work, I do not have to draw a picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u27	This is a question that concerns your meeting, Minister, with the Ministers in charge of Education in early May, where, according to what has been read, topics related to end-of-career planning and penitentiality have been addressed. What is the content of these negotiations beyond what the press has been able to say? Is there a timing to see you again and to go further in these themes and these various negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u28	Mr Minister, on the same subject, as you announced earlier, on Monday 2 May you met with the Ministers of Education of the three Communities. Indeed, the various pension reforms that have taken place have a very serious impact on the conditions for teachers' access to the end-of-career measures, the DPPR as regards the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This is something that we denounce when gradually it is the rights to a dignified and "assurable" end of career for teachers that are challenged, with acquired rights that are shaken and significant financial consequences for those concerned. These discussions with federated entities are therefore necessary and useful and should lead to specific adjustments. So these are my questions. What issues and demands have been put on the table by the three ministers? Based on the reforms already introduced, what is the current minimum age of access for Francophone teachers to the DPPR? What commitments have you made to these ministers with regard to the maintenance of the system of the tantieths currently applicable to teachers? What commitments have you made with regard to the recognition of the teaching profession among the heavy trades and the specific conditions of access to pensions for them? When do you have to review the Ministers of Education on this subject and with what agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed invited the three Ministers of Education to meet with me to inform them of the measures relating to public sector pensions decided on the occasion of the last budgetary control in April. Two reforms received special attention during this meeting. On the one hand, it concerns the harmonisation of the diploma bonus for the calculation of the pension and, on the other hand, the abolition of the preferential periods linked to the taking into account of penitibility in the determination of pension rights. The main concerns of Education Ministers were the preservation of acquired rights and the continuation of dialogue with federated entities. With regard to acquired rights, I was able to indicate that teachers would still benefit free of charge from the diploma bonus for the career provided before the new provisions came into force. For example, a teacher with a 4-year diploma who has already completed three-quarters of his/her career will receive a free bonus for 3 years of his/her degree. In the same vein, I have made it clear that, as I said earlier, the first preferential measures would remain in force for the entire period prior to the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the taking into account of penitibility. As for the dialogue with the federated entities, it was agreed that it would continue both at the level of the Public Sector Commission of the National Pension Committee and at the level of Committee A where they are represented. The meeting was held in a constructive atmosphere, which the Ministers said at the end of the meeting. In response to Mr Daerden's question on the state of the negotiations, I should like to inform you that the reforms relating to penitibility and graduation are currently under discussion in the National Pension Committee. The preliminary draft laws implementing these reforms will subsequently be submitted to Committee A with regard to the public sector. No new meetings with Ministers of Education have been planned. It is obvious that I am willing to meet them again if necessary. This is the second time I have met with the Ministers of Education to discuss the reforms of our pension system. To answer Mr Gilkinet's more specific questions, I would like to make two points. Since discussions on taking account of penitentiality are still ongoing in the National Pension Committee, I have not made any commitment to recognize the teaching profession as one of the hard-working professions. We have discussed it, but I have not made a commitment to it since I do not wish to short-circuit the work of the National Pension Committee. This does not mean that I regard a priori as certain that the teaching function is not painful. However, the ongoing social dialogue should not be disrupted. The minimum age of access to the DPPR in the French Community falls within the competence of the Government of the French Community. For your information, it is currently 55 years for teachers who are engaged in part-time work and 58 years for those who are discontinuing their activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u30	Minister, thank you for these clarifications and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u31	I confess, minister, that I am astonished by the optimism of your interlocutors. In this case, I have a more critical reading of what is happening. When you say that acquired rights will be maintained for periods prior to the entry into force of new provisions, this means that for many teachers who are already in place, this will have particularly important consequences in terms of career duration. I think in twenty years, having to look after kindergarten children at the age of 60 or later, will be even more complicated than today. The stratified changes will prevent, all other things being equal, end-career arrangements that simply make it possible to support functions that are heavier than others. There is, of course, some of the responsibilities in the federated entities. You cite the age of the PDPD, but it is mechanically fixed three years before the possibility of access to the pension. If access to the pension is always delayed, access to the RPPD is mechanically delayed – unless the rules are changed. The technique of sausageing reforms is used to avoid scalding or frightening teachers. However, the consequences will be very heavy, as for other audiences. This is just an example, but it is important. I mean that the tantèmes will be deleted and replaced by something that will be the result of the consultation and on which you do not commit. I repeat that you make the use of concertation with variable geometry. Sometimes you allow yourself to move forward without consultation and on the measures that can be more positive, you are waiting for an agreement that I hope will come. However, I am really worried about the fate of the teachers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u32	On 22 April 2003, the Supplementary Pensions Commission delivered a unanimous opinion on Article 27(4) and Article 63(5) of the Act of 28 April 2003. Can you confirm that you will follow this advice? If not, if you repeat that you are watching to respect social consultation, could you explain why you would be against this opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u33	Mr President, I will reply to Mr Daerden that I can follow Opinion No 37 of 22 April 2016 issued by the Supplementary Pensions Commission, for the very reason that it merely confirms what the law of 18 December 2015 already provides. In the interests of legal certainty, the Committee on Supplementary Pensions, by that opinion, wished to clarify the application of that Act on this specific point. It should be recalled that this was the result of the agreement of the Group of 10 of 16 October 2015. Consequently, the social partners represented in the Complementary Pensions Commission were perfectly well placed to confirm this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u34	That's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u35	Mr President, Minister, La Libre Belgique of this Tuesday, May 10, strongly echoes the criticisms of the point pension system at a meeting of the National Pension Committee. According to the Federal Pension Service and INASTI, the point system, which is part of the reforms you are considering, would be costly while having few advantages over the current tools available. Minister, do you confirm this information? Can you provide us with copies of the notes distributed for the occasion to allow us to assess the amounts quoted and the criticisms made? What are your responses to these criticisms? What is the continuation of the process with regard to the possible implementation of this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the Federal Pension Service and the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed are not convinced of the benefits of the point system for pensions proposed by this government. That was in the newspaper La Libre Belgique yesterday. Both services refer to the major difficulties encountered in the transition period, i.e. a quotation of a point system, as well as the difficulty of maintaining both systems for a long period of time. The services also note that the system is very expensive and question its usefulness. They are asking for the preservation of MyPension, for which 16 million has already been released for the period 2010-2018. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Firstly, how do you respond to the criticism of both services that the point system in pensions would be expensive and useless? Secondly, what budget do you provide for the introduction of the credit system in pensions in the coming years? Thirdly, are you prepared, in dialogue with the services concerned, to review the government's plans to introduce a point system in pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u37	Mr President, as you know, the point pension that was defined in June 2014 by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, chaired by Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, is currently under discussion in the National Pension Committee, as provided for in the Government Agreement. At my initiative, the Federal Pension Service and INASTI were invited to participate in the Committee's discussions to discuss how the point pension could be implemented in practice. Both administrations highlighted the difficulties and costs associated with this implementation. They also considered the point pension to be unnecessary in order to carry out the structural reforms of our pension system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the discussions on point pensions, to which the Chairman of the Pension Reform Commission is associated, have not been concluded. It is obviously difficult for me to give my opinion even before the National Pension Committee has given a final opinion. I cannot, moreover, respond favourably to Mr Gilkinet's request to have the presentation note drawn up by the administrations. Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure approved by the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 states that "except for the final opinions or reports of the Committee, the documents relating to the work of the Committee are not public". The same article stipulates that "the meetings of the Committee shall not be public". I regret, moreover, that these provisions have not been respected by all members of the National Pension Committee. I therefore invite you to address your request to the Chairman of the National Pension Committee. With regard to social consultation, I look forward to the final opinion of the Committee, in particular on the usefulness of setting up a point pension as defined by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, which I will then submit to the government. I want to stress that, in any event, the ongoing structural reforms of our pension system are not conditional on the introduction of point pensions. This constitutes a new method of accounting for pension rights. Both the reforms that have already been adopted and those that still need to be adopted are therefore not affected by whether or not to set up the point pension, which is only planned for 2030. Thus, point pension is not necessary to take account of penitibility in the determination of pension rights. At the same time, discussions are continuing on this issue within the National Pensions Committee. Nor is it necessary to carry out reforms as essential as those aimed at raising the average retirement age, which is being done, to strengthen the insurgency of our pension system, to raise the lowest pensions or, again, to harmonise the different schemes. These reforms will ensure the budgetary and social sustainability of our pension system. In response to Mr Hedebouw's question, no budget has been provided for the introduction of the point pension since its entry into force is scheduled for 2030 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u38	Minister, I have learned that when you talk about Frank Vandenbroucke or social consultation, you do not want to answer the questions. It's a way of kicking and wetting other people. I consider this information, which you do not contradict, to be this very negative opinion on the point pension system, both on the part of INASTI and on the part of the pension administration. It would make sense for parliamentarians to have access to this information. It's an important element. I understand that no decision has been made. I also hear that the point system is only a form of dressing, a modality that does not prevent other good or bad reforms – you have instead chosen the wrong ones. The existence of the point-based system does not preclude the consideration of strong and structural alternative pension financing to cover the cost of ageing and to give everyone a sufficient amount of pension. I can join you on this. This is not a sine qua non with regard to alternative financing to which we are particularly committed. I regret that you did not mention other reforms to be pursued in parallel with the point pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u39	Minister, in the preamble, please know that your references to Mr Vandenbroucke do not affect me. A left-hand reference would have touched me more! Secondly, you are talking about the difficulties mentioned by both institutions. We are talking not only about difficulties but also about a non-necessity. You focus primarily on the difficulty of implementing it. I think there is also a global issue around a non-necessity. The debate is still open. They are people who have their two feet firmly anchored in the reality of managing our pensions. Thirdly, we will follow this issue very closely. You yourself have invoked the three parameters that could lead to the calculation of the point value: the height of public finances, life expectancy and average wage in our society. According to my estimates, in the next ten or fifteen years, they will not increase. Indeed, for public finances, this is not going to be a party. Then life expectancy – and I hope so – will continue to increase. Finally, I recall the pressure on wages throughout the European Union. Therefore, the danger is that the value of the point does not contribute to a reduction in the pension. I would find this absolutely regrettable. In any case, we will follow the file in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u40	Mr President, Minister, for 45 years, the pension scheme for employed professional journalists has been based on the supplementary and compulsory social contributions paid to the National Pension Office. These contributions amount to 2% for the employer and 1% for the journalist. They finance a pension supplement of 33 per cent for each career year. It is an allocation plan, with contributions paid annually to fund pensions due at the same time. I remember it very well. The previous government and Minister Van Quickenborne wanted to reform this system before an equivalent system was finally put in place by the law of 20 July 2012. It is my responsibility that further discussions and a challenge to this system are under way. Minister, I would like to take stock with you on this matter. Do you confirm that there is an intention to reform this supplementary pension system for professional journalists? What would be the direction of this reform? How long do you intend to propose and implement it? What budget objective will it achieve? Have there been any discussions on this reform with the parties concerned and their representatives? If so, which ones? I come to the most important question. What is the excess of contributions that has been paid over the years by journalists and their employers? In a distribution system, contributions may exceed expenditure, at least at the beginning of the system. I believe that this is the case, and this must be taken into account in the context of possible reform. Does an accounting for what has already been paid and spent exist at the NPB level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u41	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I have a little background. During the previous legislature, the system of special pensions for minors and civil aviation personnel was abolished, with a number of transitional measures. I am the financial evolution of the pension scheme for professional journalists. Section 119/1 of the Act of 28 December 2011 on various provisions provides that, each year, the Federal Pension Service shall report to the Minister of Pensions on the financial situation of the plan. The objective is clearly stated in this article: "In consultation with the social partners, and after consulting the Management Committee of the National Pension Office, the King may, on the basis of this annual report, adapt the aforementioned provisions in order to ensure the financial balance of the scheme." I recall this because the law makes it clear that it has been decided to maintain this regime provided that it is financially balanced. In 2015, during the 2013 and 2014 fiscal analysis, the Federal Pension Service, the ONP at the time, found that the plan was in deficit. This deficit amounted to EUR 250 000 for 2013 and EUR 402 000 for 2014. In view of the overall ageing of the population and the evolution of the sector, it is very likely that this deficit will continue to increase. The Management Committee has already dealt with this problem on several occasions. I indicated to the Deputy General of the Federal Pension Service that I wanted the Management Committee to deliver an opinion as soon as possible. And as soon as this opinion reaches me, I will submit to the Council of Ministers a plan to solve the problem. Given the nature of our distributed pension system, it is not actually possible to set up reserves, since social contributions are allocated to the overall management of the social security of employed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u42	Minister, I am responding to the last element of your answer. Formally, there are no reserves since the money contributed a year is used directly. But there may be an accounting for the fact that for a long time, the system has been able to generate more contributions than it has generated. In a reform that would be based on the fact that recent years are in deficit, it is necessary to have intellectual honesty to consider the same elements on a multi-year basis. If the additional contributions paid by journalists' employers, the media in this case, and the contributions paid by journalists, have exceeded the expenditure, this must also be taken into account in a possible reform. I am curious to continue the debate with you and to have the opinion that will be drawn up on the subject. I will follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u43	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised that my question was not attached to those of the other two speakers, as it dealt with the same area. I mean, I was told it was the firm that decided to split them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u44	Was it possible to reach them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u45	No, we decided to split them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u46	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u47	My question concerns the negotiations with Community ministers on education. I'll go straight to the goal to save time. Reference was made to a regularisation amount in the context of a diploma certificate. How much will the regularization contribution be for taking into account the years of study? Will this amount be the same for the different education systems in our country? What budgetary margin does the federal government provide for to reach a social agreement on this regularisation contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u48	I would remind you that the phasing out of the diploma bonus did not start until 2016. This measure was laid down by the Act of 28 April 2015 and relates only to the career requirement for early retirement. This phase-out takes place in increments of 4, 5 or 6 months per year depending on the duration of the diploma. The holder of a bachelor's degree will lose the benefit of his diploma only in 2023 in increments of 5 months and the holder of a master's degree in 2025, in increments of 6 months. A civil servant or teacher will therefore have to work a little longer. However, it is necessary to be much more nuanced because guarantees have been granted, in particular to teachers who were on pre-pension leave or under the conditions for obtaining such leave. For the latter, the phasing out of the diploma bonus has no impact on the date of their departure from the pension. Other measures further mitigate the effects of the abolition of the duration of the diploma, such as the limitation of the number of additional years that the application of this measure may entail: a maximum of three additional years for persons aged 55 and 56 in 2016, a maximum of two additional years for those aged 57 and 58, and a maximum of one additional year for those aged 59 and over. The examples you give are therefore not entirely accurate. In addition, they do not take into account the revalorisation coefficient which applies to the years taken as teachers and which have the effect of increasing the length of the career in a fictitious way, which means that teachers will not have to extend their careers by a period equal to that of their diploma. For some, they will have to extend it, but to a much lesser extent. This regulation, which has been put in place, aims at gradually harmonising, between the different schemes, the career conditions to be met in order to access the pension, as recommended by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. As part of this harmonization of pension schemes, the question now concerns the inclusion of the diploma in the calculation of the pension amount. As I explained in the joint answer to the oral questions delivered on 20 April, to Mrs Temmerman and to yourself, as well as in the answer to the question put by Mr Daerden today, the modalities of this harmonisation are currently being discussed in the National Pension Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic412x.u49	Minister, I will not know much more today. I'll give you an appointment next time.
