ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u1	Given the great presence, may I start the sitting anyway, despite the text message to postpone the sitting from 14:30 to 15:00? The majority of the interveners are already present and there will undoubtedly be a number of others who will comply with the punctual starting time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u2	Mr President, is it also possible to send a text message to those Members who have tabled a question but are not permanent members of the committee? Technically, that would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u3	I understand now the great presence, despite the text, you were not notified. Your remarks are correct, and we will take them into account in the future. However, we cannot reverse the past. As requested by our absent colleague from Ecolo, there is an exchange of views on the Channel Plan with the Minister for the Interior. We'll add the questions to that. In the meantime, I see that we are ambitious and hope to add further questions after this point has been completed. We'll see where we get the same way we did with the Secretary of State this morning. I assume that we will start with an explanation from the Minister which will clarify the broad lines, what choices were made, how and what the implications might be. Then the groups will have the floor and the people who have tabled a question. If there is no objection to this method, the Minister will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my introductory remarks I will try to answer a number of general questions. Of course, we will be able to discuss these issues further later, but I believe that this will improve efficiency. On the agenda is the Canal Plan, but the plan is actually called the Plan against radicalisation and terrorism in the Channel Zone, because I understand that there is already a Channel Zone spatial planning plan in Brussels. Double name use could lead to confusion. Although radical innovation in spatial planning is also important! It is therefore a matter of the Plan against radicalisation and terrorism in the Channel Area. This is the elaboration of one of the 18 measures taken by the government shortly after the attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris. With this plan we serve a common goal, namely to tackle, in cooperation with all actors, the hotbed of violent extremism. I will not hide the fact that originally the focus was only on Molenbeek, but on the basis of research and objective parameters, the field of action was more broadly defined. The result was again and again the same area, being the Channel Zone. The Channel Zone covers five police zones and eight municipalities. It is not five full police zones, but eight municipalities, covering five police zones, are part of that field of action. It concerns the police areas of Brussels-South, Brussels-West, Brussels Capital of Ixelles, Brussels-North and Vilvoorde-Machelen; and the municipalities concerned are St Gillis, Anderlecht, Molenbeek, Koekelberg, Laeken, Sint-Joost-ten-Node, Schaerbeek and Vilvoorde. I just said that the field of action was defined on the basis of research and objective parameters. A first objective parameter is the criminal acts that are known in that area, by which we mean arms trafficking, drugs and forged documents. A second parameter is the number of foreign terrorist fighters, coupled with the population, which gives us a relative number. A third parameter is the illegal economy and a fourth parameter is the federal support to the local zone. This set of four parameters has led to a definition of the field of action. That analysis was not made by me, but by the police zones themselves. We work with a system of multiple approaches and for this we work with the different levels: the federal government, the local police zones, the local authorities and also the Brussels-Capital Region. So the whole plan is essentially about a concrete grouping of forces around a unique security project, in which everyone takes responsibility. This plan is one of the pieces in the global fight against violent extremism. I come to a question raised by many of you today, but also during the discussions, which is why we are limiting ourselves to this area and why we are starting with the municipality of Molenbeek and the Vilvorde-Machelen area. The operational services made this choice on the basis of the above-mentioned parameters and the operational management group unanimously approved this choice. The incidents of the past period have clearly revealed the presence of a problem, but it is above all the two communes that have proposed a clear plan. The best practices that can be drawn from the action plan of these two municipalities can certainly be extended to other areas. I would also like to stress, once again, that other areas both in and outside Brussels use the incentive policy and the budget for prevention contracts. We therefore support them as well. It is still much wider than the eight municipalities concerned. If I may go into more detail about the plan itself, I can clarify that the action plan consists of four parts: preventive, administrative, police and judicial. As far as the preventive and administrative aspects are concerned, the Brussels-Capital Region is coordinating the seven Brussels municipalities. This means that the municipalities and the Brussels-Capital Region are primarily responsible for the elaboration and handling. The federal government provides its best practices and expertise as support. It is important that a coordinated approach is put in place between the various municipalities. This co-ordinated approach is the organisation of training in the local police population inspection, the support in the preparation of municipal regulations regarding the population inspection in the municipalities where this is still necessary, some municipalities already have such training, the provision of statistics for the preparation of these population inspections and the participation in technical coordination meetings for concrete actions. These are just a few examples where the federal level makes an offer for support, but certainly does not want to take the place of local authorities. As far as the fight against radicalisation is concerned more specifically, I would like to stress that both the impulse policy that we have already set up and the budgets within the prevention contracts support local governance. Within the impulse policy, each board had to submit a plan that had to be approved by the Treasury Inspectorate. The practical roll-out is the responsibility of the local government itself. In addition, of course, the local task forces and the local integrated security cell also play a very important role. As mentioned above, new prevention initiatives should be taken at both local and regional level, as this is the responsibility. There are very few powers at federal level that can lead to prevention, but in consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region we have jointly recognised that prevention is a very important element in tackling violent extremism. More specifically with regard to the Channel Plan, there has been a meeting with the Brussels-Capital Region to discuss this. What can possibly follow at administrative and administrative level? First of all, I would like to stress that, as far as housing control is concerned, it has never been the intention to control all houses one by one. There's been a lot of press releases. We must not take things out of context. The approach to radicalism is a priority, but it will always be within the legal framework. Systematic administrative searches aren't part of that. Particular emphasis should be placed on home visits after registration or change of address already required by legislation. Such home visits can provide much useful information and provide added value in the fight against radicalism. It is important to ensure that existing procedures are applied and aligned as closely as possible. Information that needs to be verified relates in particular to the identity and layout of the home. Do the right people live at the address? Are there any other persons registered at the same address? Is the partitioning of the house with the land register and the building permit correct? It happens that several people are registered at different addresses or on an apartment that is actually an ordinary home. This means that, in the case of benefits, for example, the single person may receive more benefits in such cases. It also offers more opportunities to promote fake dominating. We also need to better identify and tackle this type of fraud. Illegal housing and the associated safe houses of criminals or radicalised people must be restricted. The principles of correct housing and correct registration must always be respected. A large part of these investigations can already be done through a cross-section of data in the various databases. That doesn't imply a physical home visit. Within my plan of approach, an operational steering group was set up to be divided into several sub-groups. One of these sub-groups will deal with the administrative approach. This sub-group will examine these issues, among other things. The aim is to find a tailored solution that respects the role and responsibilities of the municipalities, the Region and the federal government. I repeat, however, that this is mainly a matter for the municipalities. With respect to the security component, a strategic committee and a steering committee were established to develop strategic objectives and establish an operational plan. The steering committee consists of members of the federal and local police, namely the Brussels dirco and the Brussels-West zone chief. For the police component, four objectives were defined: an author-centred approach, an examination of the phenomenon of crime and support in the broad sense, research on the illegal economy of support and a study of radicalisation in the broad sense. We have developed a system of multiple approaches and are collaborating with the various levels: the federal authority, the local police areas, the local administrations and the Brussels-Capital Region. The operational plan was drawn up by all the heads of corps concerned, who then forwarded it to the local authorities. It has been validated and will continue to be carried out by the zonal security council. The federal government has made significant efforts to strengthen police and security services at all levels. Cooperation between the local and federal levels will also be improved as part of the development of the police action plan to combat radicalization in the Canal area. It intends to promote such cooperation in various areas. Each agent within the plan shall coordinate a sub-working group without prejudice to their respective competencies. The sub-working groups focus on the different aspects of the approach in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. They are preceded by the leaders exercising the mandate within the demarcated area. The Judicial Approach Working Group is coordinated by the Judicial Director of Brussels and aims to develop an integrated approach by harmonizing the efforts of the federal and local police. The other security and intelligence services, as well as the two prosecution offices, are also involved in this regard. The Administrative Approach Sub-Working Group is coordinated by the Chiefs of Staff. The objective is to further develop processes that can lead to an acceptable, effective and continuous approach. To this end, registrations, the removal of documents and passports, alerts, neighbourhood work, the mobilization of police reinforcements, and the enforcement and standardization of police regulations will be further developed. Of course, this working group works closely with local authorities to harmonize their respective tasks, with local authorities still having final responsibility for administrative matters. The main objective is therefore to achieve a kind of audit, engineering and exchange of best practices that is systematically validated by local authorities. The "signally" working group, under the direction of the judicial director of Hal-Vilvorde, tries to clarify the problem of alerts. In this regard, it is important that national alerts are carried out and monitored in a uniform and effective manner in order to improve the quality of such alerts and to ensure the correct and effective implementation of international alerts as well. This working group consists of members of different bodies: the Federal Judicial Police, the Single Point Of Contact (SPOC) and the two SICADs. It will also attempt to provide sufficient monitoring mechanisms to ensure the continuity and quality of alerts. The Director-Coordinator of Hal-Vilvorde leads the Sub-Working Group "Measuring Results". One of the main aspects of the plan is to measure the effectiveness and effectiveness of efforts. First, zero measurements are made for the different axes of the plane. The next step will be to measure the results of the efforts on a regular basis. This working group will also examine, in a cross-cutting manner, what is happening in the other working groups in order to define the different needs. The Brussels Director-Coordinator has taken over the portfolio to facilitate the collaboration and harmonization of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters Local Task Forces. When a person on a borough list moves to another borough or is active in different boroughs, it is important that information be communicated quickly, safely and qualitatively. The Directors-Coordinators of Brussels and Hal-Vilvorde lead the Sub-Working Group "Strengthening Police". This includes strengthening local police areas, allocating federal capacity, and organising and coordinating specific and targeted police actions, such as FIPAs. Local police services are also represented in other sub-working groups. The aim is to analyse the processes within the various police services, optimize them and better harmonize them. Collaboration and the maintenance of own skills are the key words. Nothing is imposed. The main aim is to develop, in consultation, a more effective approach. Given the importance of all these aspects and portfolios, I plan to strengthen at all levels and not just the additional capacity to strengthen the local police force as it is currently in place. The objective is also to strengthen the judicial pillar, the federal reserve capacity and the services that can process the information collected in order to create operational added value. On a monthly basis, results will be communicated and evaluated at the Strategic Committee. This plan was specifically requested to be included in the zonal security plan. Of course, it was also included in the SNP, as well as in the integrated security framework note. As regards the exchange of information, the dynamic database developed for the follow-up of persons on the consolidated list of the OCAD contributes to a better exchange of information and has two finalities. On the one hand, the protected judicial and administrative information between police officers who have security clearance can be shared by means of information sheets. On the other hand, the information card was developed for the administrative authorities. This information card does not contain classified information and allows the mayor concerned to obtain the necessary information to initiate the deradicalisation process. For this, the mayor doesn't need security clearance. Within the local task force the confidential information can be exchanged. As described in the circular, the police officer provides the link between the local task force and the local integrated security cell, encouraging prevention services to exchange information with each other, as well as between the administrative and police levels. The LIVC is a relatively new structure for some administrations, which will have to be further developed by local authorities, but is a hugely important link in an optimal information exchange. The local task force Brussels, as mentioned above, is also one of the topics that will be better looked at within a sub-working group of the Channel Plan in order to optimise, given its current size. There is also a need for coordination and exchange of information at both preventive and administrative levels. The Brussels-Capital Region has an important role to play here in taking initiatives on prevention, as well as better alignment of police regulations and municipal procedures. I'm talking about that right now. Another important factor in exchanging information is the signals. Within the Channel Zone Action Plan, a sub-working group was set up under the leadership of the judicial director of Halle-Vilvoorde. It seeks to clarify further the problem of signals and the exchange of information. It is important that national signals are carried out and monitored uniformly and efficiently, so that quality improves and international signals can also be correctly and efficiently carried out. This sub-group consists of members of the various corps, the federal judicial police, the International Seinings Service and both SICAD POTATOs. They will also endeavour to establish sufficient control mechanisms to ensure continuity and quality of signals. As regards the regular management of information, I refer to the Ministerial circular MFO3. What are the planned means? As part of the police plan, the Chiefs of Corps filed a fact sheet describing the different needs of their bodies. On the basis of these fact sheets and the results of the measures generated, the working group on police strength will objectively determine how the additional officers will be distributed among the different bodies. In addition to the specific allocation of human resources under the Canal Plan, support will be provided within the support services. A total of 485 full-time equivalents will be provided for the implementation of the Canal Plan as a whole. Of these 485 FTEs, 325 will go to support the local police (300 in Brussels and 25 in Hal-Vilvorde) and 160 to fill the deficit support services within the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels (146 in Brussels and 14 in Hal-Vilvorde). The police action plan is not limited to strengthening the support of local police services in the field. Thus, different sub-working groups have been created, as mentioned above. Given the importance of the above-mentioned sub-working group and the increased support for collaboration and exchange of information, I plan to strengthen at all levels, not just in terms of the additional capacity to support the local police currently in place. The aim is also to strengthen the judicial pillar, as well as the capacity of the Federal Reserve and the competent services to process the information collected in order to create operational added value. The allocation of resources is an operational consideration. DirCo, in co-chairship with the Chief Constable of Brussels-West, will be responsible for the distribution of the 120 for strengthening support in the field, and the 180 for the general reserve for Brussels. As regards the strengthening of the general reserve, as included in the government agreement, the mobility capacity will also be increased as well as the improvement of mobility procedures. On the one hand, this has already been provided for by 180 additional recruitments for the extension of the general reserve in Brussels. On the other hand, the federal police have been asked to consider how mobility capacity can be structurally increased. One of the questions refers to the distribution of the 400 million, the Channel Plan is only a part of the order of 39 million. Specifically with regard to this plan, I can tell you that the zones have drawn up their needs and communicated them to us. A joint and supported operational plan was drawn up for which funds were provided. The DirCo and the Chief Constable of Brussels-West will then be responsible for the roll-out of this plan. In summary, the questions have been asked, the police have met and have determined a capacity allocation that was supported by all partners. The whole plan therefore focuses on concrete synergy around a single security project in which everyone assumes their responsibilities. I myself took an initiative in this direction by providing the Molenbeek and Vilvorde police forces with immediate additional support of 50 and 20 officers from the Federal Reserve, respectively. The strengthening of the support of the federal police to the local police will gradually evolve towards 325 police officers, 120 of which will be made available to the local police in Brussels, 25 for Hal-Vilvorde and 180 for the strengthening of the general reserve, which will also be available in support of the local police. The Canal Plan thus constitutes a piece of the puzzle in the more global fight against violent extremism. The agents deployed in the Brussels-West and Vilvoorde-Machelen zones since 1 February 2016 come from the federal police reserve group. This is the entity in which newly graduate police officers, who have not yet received a permanent appointment in a local zone or federal management, are temporarily deployed immediately after training. They will temporarily strengthen local or federal entities from there until they receive a fixed destination. Before being deployed in Brussels-West and Vilvoorde-Machelen, they were deployed in a large number of federal entities, from where they were reoriented. That means that these federal entities now have to do with less manpower. Since the current number is insufficient to man the whole plan, additional recruitments are indeed planned. We have therefore taken an urgent measure and put in place the federal reserve in Molenbeek. The gaps that are struck by this are further filled by recruitments. I said in committee last week that the first training session was scheduled in May and that recruitment is now under way. The remaining places will be filled in either through mobility or through new recruitments. In October 2016, 600 new police officers will be released. Meanwhile, within a few months, more precisely in May and September, we will start new training courses. Police officers coming for reinforcements are welcomed by the Molenbeek police area and are trained to be informed of what is expected of them. This training includes, among other things, four hours of lessons on home identifications and identity documents for Belgians. They also get a peter, a local employee who knows the zone and will show them the territory and know the local specificity of the zone. Within the specific framework of the Canal Plan, police officers already sent in reinforcement to the Molenbeek police area are welcomed within the area and receive training for one week. They carry out an organised tour of the various services and benefit from the sponsorship of a colleague who knows the area, its territory and its specificities. In what way the capacity is deployed is the responsibility of the various chiefs of police. On the basis of the data sheets submitted and the results of the measurements, they will be allocated a quota which they will be able to use to implement their action plan. The reinforcement can be used to directly deploy for community operations, information follow-up and intervention. Some chiefs opt to use the reinforcement to strengthen the intervention services and to transfer staff within the intervention services that are already more in touch with the local area to the services where reinforcement is needed, although within the framework of the plan and for deployment within the channel area. In globo, the reinforcement therefore serves to strengthen support in the field by more or better use of intervention teams and/or district agents. I'll deal with the remaining capacity. The new basic training of the inspector, implemented since last October and whose first inspectors will be appointed in October next includes in the clusters: police interventions (9); societal context (12); stress and violence management (15). There are about ten hours of courses on how to apprehend a threat situation, whether against individuals or specific locations. The duration of the provision of the areas will be assessed at all times on the basis of the measures taken. The baseline measure will be important, after which a weighting will be established. The criteria used to define it are also aligned with the CLSI, the PNS, the OCAM and the federal police. In the meantime, local authorities must develop a vision of how to reduce the capacity of the local police to an adequate level. The functioning of the federal and local police must be structurally strengthened in order to manage the problem in the long term. This is why it is important for the operational steering group and its various sub-working groups to continue their analysis and modulate the allocation of human resources to the needs. It is essential to provide the authorities with a transparent invoice for staff costs. Under the Canal Plan, staff costs are estimated at 24 million on an annual basis after the establishment of all staff in 2017. Investment and operating costs are estimated at 12.5 million for the period 2016-2019. The action plan has only just been validated. The reinforcements were only formed by the zones and can now really strengthen the local police. The promised and budgeted support can now finally be planned. It goes without saying that this will not produce immediate results. The plan is an integrated medium- and long-term approach. The impact will be on the different sub-domains. Finally, under this plan, I make temporary staff available to a number of areas in Brussels where there has been a deficit in recent years. Addressing this deficit is a local responsibility. The use of the powers made available under the terms of the Channel Plan is also a local responsibility. For this reason, it was also provided for in a section "Travel cover'. The plan has therefore been launched and evaluations will be carried out on a monthly basis. We've made a zero reading. Mr President, if, over time, the committee were to consider a mid-term review of the Channel Plan, I would be at your disposal to provide you with the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u5	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to all the groups and I would like to follow the order of the questions put. In the end, several questions have been added. I would like to give them the floor first and then the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u6	Mr President, could we not have an exchange of views and then ask questions that the minister would not have answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u7	Mr Kir, I agree with your suggestion. Members who have not received an answer to their questions will therefore be able to ask them. I propose that this should be seen as an exchange of views and not as an order of the questions put, but as the usual order, according to the size of the political groups. That seems to me to be a logical order. Then we can see which questions have not yet been answered. Groups with several questioners may be discussed again in a second round. In a first round we shall have one speaker per group to speak. We are trying to keep the debate flexible. If there are many questions left after the first round, then an initial answer, possibly with intermediate questions, can follow. In view of the large number of people present, we must also ensure that the debate is conducted in an orderly manner. You will be the first to have the floor, Mr Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive explanation of this Channel Plan. I will briefly express some reservations and confine myself to the many attendances. I hope everyone can take the floor. I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that such a plan was certainly necessary. Since the attacks in Paris and the aftermath of the attacks, the international media have often looked at our country, especially Saint John's Molenbeek. But this failing policy extends to several municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region. This is painful to see that too little investment has been made in basic safety in recent years. It is right that various bodies and various political parties point out that Community-oriented police should play an important role in the security process. Here the emphasis is placed on an important role for the district, a district whose importance cannot be sufficiently underlined. The district agents are the eyes and ears of the police who have to observe everything, gather information, detect peculiar situations and pass them on to their colleagues. But sometimes there are problems, sometimes certain neighbourhoods have image problems and it is up to the local government to break the picture. We refer to the report by the P Committee, which said that there is no risk of patrolling in certain areas. The P Committee writes: 'a police force which has no contact with the population, which has no knowledge of some areas and which, during patrols, runs around the problem areas.' That's definitely something that's not allowed. The P Committee also notes that there are no real no-go zones available to the police. In the view of the P Committee, the police are focusing too much on a repressive approach without addressing the root problems and the area is not dealing with the causes and consequences, while a purely reactive response is not enough. The P Committee clearly believes that there are local authorities that are unable to tackle the problems. We are now faced with a painful situation. Despite the fact that the world's eyes are on these Brussels municipalities, a number of policy makers lack the will to reach a final solution. That is why we are very happy that there is an effective Minister for the Interior, who is indeed prepared to take action, measures aimed at restoring security, including with this Channel Plan. Some of the measures included in this plan include the deployment of 300 additional federal police officers in the six Brussels police zones, cooperation with local and federal police and the improved exchange of information between municipal authorities, police, justice, OCMW and the Brussels-Capital Region. We would like to add a small critical note, namely that of cooperation between the Brussels-Capital Region and those six police areas. Indeed, the sixth state reform in July 2014 provided for a unified security policy in Brussels by creating a regional security council. It was intended that the Regional Security Council would draw up an overall regional security plan above the six safety plans of the various zones. According to our information, that regional security plan is not yet in place. The Region has been waiting a year and a half to draw up this plan and apparently waits for the National Security Plan to arrive. However, there were some serious facts to note. In May 2014 there was the terrorist attack in the Jewish Museum. In January 2015, there were facts with Charlie Hebdo in Paris. At that time, the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region announced on his website that an eight-point plan would follow. In this eight-point plan he provided a coordination cell to coordinate the exchange of information between those different services. However, I have not noticed much of this eight-point plan. I hope that progress will be made. As you said, Minister, the exchange of information between the various services will be very important. We very much welcome the fact that you want to carry out an evaluation at certain times. I had indeed put a number of questions in writing, but you were very detailed and you have already answered most of my questions. All I think I have to ask is this. How long will these Brussels municipalities be strengthened with those 300 police officers? What will the budgetary impact of this plan be on the federal budget in the short and long term? I have no further questions and thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, who, in his detailed presentation, has already answered a number of questions. For my part, I would like to thank him for the appeasements he has provided, particularly on the chapter on administration and prevention. I also appreciated your proposal to strengthen own skills. I will therefore come back to these two aspects, Minister. Let me first react to the comments made by the N-VA Group. I find it very awkward, when it is necessary to unite within the House to fight terrorism, all the time wanting to find a sham. Indeed, when we look at the figures of the Internal FPS, we see that 93 people left for Syria from Antwerp, whereas in Molenbeek they were 47 individuals. So, Mr. Degroote, before you throw the stone at the others, look into your garden. Mr. Minister of the Interior, we have already had this exchange of views in the plenary of the House, but I would like to go back to that. I would like us to stop talking about a Canal Plan, because this plan – as you said – is actually an urban redevelopment plan around Brussels. Out of respect for the Brussels government – and especially for the Brussels people themselves – it would be nice to talk more about Radicalism. You did so on the occasion of the Conference which brought together the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and all the mayors. I think that would be a nice signal to send to all the Brusselsers. On the other hand, I regret once again that we finally point Brussels, not to mention the whole territory. For example, when Antwerp asks to be able to hire police officers, we talk about a pilot project, a positive example. To the Brussels municipalities which ask for the same thing, we reply that we will first wait for the result of the pilot experience of Antwerp before strengthening Brussels. I therefore regret that this plan is almost exclusively Brussels when cities are affected in Flanders and Wallonia; we have already had the opportunity to talk about it. You have clarified the objective criteria, the crime figures, the grey economy, etc. I am not convinced that in other cities there is no problem. On the prevention side, I obviously welcome your choice to work with the Brussels Region, which should lead this working group. I also appreciate the assistance and support given by the Minister of the Interior to the creation of communal housing regulations. In this regard, I would like to repeat what I have already had the opportunity to say. We are facing federal jurisdiction. The municipalities carry out tasks under the Ministry of the Interior. Your presence is therefore essential; the responsibility for homelessness is a responsibility of the federal government. Thus, when we say we have to go to check the homes, the responsibility is first of all federal. The mayors and the communes are simply executing. It's important to say so. I would also like to dwell on what you have said in terms of collaboration and own skills. You said you wanted to strengthen collaborations and skills. We are a few Brussels mayors asking ourselves questions. We all want to work with the government as part of this plan. But I would like everyone's skills to be respected in this regard. Neither the Brussels Minister-President nor the zone chiefs have the responsibility of the administrative police. This came out to every mayor. Thus, when there are meetings where the zone chiefs and the minister-president are invited, it is a pity that we forget to invite the mayors. And I would like to say to all the members of this committee that there has been no validation of the plan by the mayors at this stage. Since we are still in a phase of discussion, I recall the words of your Prime Minister who said that this plan was evolving and needed to be discussed. In this regard – and other mayors have told me – we are dubious about the fact that zone chiefs are invited into working groups without inviting the mayors to do so. This is not the right way forward. It's important to do it with everyone. As you said – I repeat your words – you want to strengthen each other's skills. I think that there is an oversight or a small error of appreciation which it is important to correct. I would also like to focus on other issues, including the figures. We are, of course, pleased that resources are now being made available for the fight against terrorism. And we know we don't have a second to lose. I see, as a mayor, how the plan is presented. In this respect, I repeat what you said earlier: "We are putting resources at the disposal of the municipalities right now". In the case of Vilvorde, yes! In the case of Molenbeek, yes, too! Good! We're obviously happy about that. However, in the case of the commune of Saint-Josse and the other Brussels municipalities, it will be necessary to wait 18 months. The first effects of support at the local police level will therefore take place in 18 months. I would like to draw everyone's attention to this point. Or is there something I don't know? It seems to me, however, that when we asked you the question, we were told that there would be recruitment and that it would take time, between twelve and eighteen months. So the effects at the police level in my area aren't happening right now. I would therefore like to pay attention to the fact that if the local police are to be asked for additional tasks, they must also be given the means. The question of means today remains fully relevant. As for the programmes you are presenting today, I think they are moving in the right direction. But I repeat what I said earlier to the N-VA group. They're not smart approaches. This is not how we will be able to fight radicalism. If you want us to have a debate one day, I am ready to have a public debate with you about the communes and the police areas. There are more municipalities in Flemish Brabant than in Brussels. There are more police zones in Flemish Brabant. There's more! I'm ready to have the debate with you. We have about the same size in terms of population. But it is too easy to lay the stone in Brussels invoking a problem of organisation. The merger of the polices took place more than fifteen years ago. There's no gendarmerie in this country anymore. At one point, the decision to merge was taken by Parliament. And when we look at crime figures, we see an improvement, more so in Brussels than in other major cities. This shows that the choices that were made at the time are the right ones. We are closer to reality. We bring more security to our neighbourhoods. Minister, I still wanted to remind you of the few additional questions in my two initial questions. These are fairly technical questions relating to the assessment conditions, the timing of the distribution of the 300 police officers and the nature of the investments you are already planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u10	If we don't answer some questions immediately, they risk making their own lives. Could I answer questions about the 300 police officers and the 12- to 18-month period? I confirm that we will be setting up 325 police officers this year, on a gradual basis. Kir, this period of 12 to 18 months is to fill the gaps in the overall organization of the federal police caused by this mobilization for this plan. The recruitments planned for May and September and the 600 men in training who will leave school in October will fill the gaps. The 325 men will be in place this year!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u11	Minister, could I have a schedule of operations? You told us about a calendar of 12 to 18 months, but when will the police arrive in our areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u12	This will be done gradually. I do not have a precise answer at the moment, but I will provide it to you. I confirm that there will be 325 men this year but I do not yet know in which communes or when.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u13	So you're telling us that before the end of the year, these 325 police officers will be in reinforcement in the police areas!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u14	There! As for the other questions, I will answer them later. But I wanted to give you that clarification now for the clarity of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks in Paris must be used as an electroshock to ensure that all levels of power, all front-line bodies in the fight against terrorism cooperate effectively. It is clear that this Canal Zone plan will succeed only if all the municipalities, the federal police, the prosecution service and the Sûreté demonstrate the determination necessary for its success. In a previous intervention, there is confusion, in my view, with regard to the difficulties that the Brussels Region may face, in particular by referring to reports, such as the report of Committee P, which dates from 2010 or 2011; this report did not at all conclude that there are no-right zones in the Brussels Region. So I think that we should keep all the serenity possible in this debate and not amalgamate. As we say, all the mayors of the Brussels Region can say: there is no right-free zone in the Brussels Region! The difficulties we face today in terms of radicalism, which also exist in other communes of the country, are difficulties that do not concern insecurity. These are completely different questions, there is no law-free zone and I do not want to be confused or confused. For the rest, Minister, it is true that cooperation with the municipalities is important. In presenting the Canal Zone Plan, you have asked each of the municipalities concerned to make a plan, to draw up a plan themselves, specifying their wishes and requests to combat radicalism. A lot has been said about Molenbeek; Molenbeek has been a target; we realize that we have made some unwelcome targeting. I would remind you that in Molenbeek, as early as December, we presented a communal plan to combat radicalism with a major demand: police reinforcement. This request was met by the federal government. Indeed, this police strengthening is essential to the political leaders and the commune in order to combat the phenomenon of radicalism. The attacks in Paris showed the existence of a network of delinquents that formed in the historic centre of my commune, before tipping into violent radicalism. We are dealing with "islamized" radicals who use their criminal connections to organize attacks. Thus, by fighting against banditry and delinquency, we fight against radicalism. As such, the contribution of these 50 police officers, who have been present since February, will enable us to strengthen the community police. This was an important demand because we did not have enough police officers to carry out all the tasks, particularly in terms of registrations and home visits. This contribution also strengthens the anti-banditism brigade, the ECOSOC cell and the radicalism cell, obviously in connection with this crime that I mentioned. So, will that be enough? The reaction of the federal level, which quickly made available a police reinforcement after the presentation of this plan by the commune, is satisfactory and shows a genuine willingness to work together and to fight against this radicalism. Nevertheless, these police officers – often very young – are sometimes from the road police, from the station police, or from other cities. The question therefore arises as to whether they will remain in Brussels. It seems to us important to motivate police officers to get involved in communal life. Thus, it is the community police that is in contact with the population and can detect signs of radicalism. You therefore give the possibility to have 300 police officers for the Brussels Region. You have confirmed that these will be available this year. In the long run, however, being aware of the budgetary constraints of the police areas of the Brussels communes, it would be interesting to be able to hire police officers who live in Brussels neighbourhoods and know them. Are incentives being considered in the long run to ensure that police officers who are willing to invest and who know Brussels' reality are engaged? The Canal Plan must also address the crime that funds radicalism. This has been mentioned extensively. You have repeatedly highlighted drug and arms trafficking, as well as trafficking in human beings. It is interesting to target individuals in connection with radicalism as well as places. These can be places of assembly, pseudo-ASBLs with sometimes cult vocations, sometimes religious and even sometimes sporting or social, but usually have relatively confused objects. At the communal level, we have put in place an administrative unit that scrutinizes the names of these individuals and places and we draw up a file within the limits of our competence. Indeed, we understood that there was a real need to target certain people and places. We transmit the information at the federal level, in particular through the local task force. It is essential that there is follow-up and exchange of information. In this context, Minister, could you tell us what kind of information can go back to the municipal level so that it can take appropriate and informed action? For example, we can collect information about an association with a so-called social vocation. If we find that this is not its objective, we collect information about its statutes and people. We pass them on to the federal government and it is important for us to know what return we will have from the federal government on this information. Our first reaction was security: more policemen were needed in Molenbeek. There will also be some in the other municipalities concerned, and that is so much better. But alongside the security aspect, the administrative part of the Canal Plan is also important. In this connection, an intercommunal working group has been set up at the level of the Brussels Region to draw up a common regulation governing registration (domicilation and cancellation) in the 19 municipalities. The Brussels municipalities therefore work together. Collaborations exist between police areas and between municipalities to move forward on these issues. Finally, the preventive aspect, which is also important, must be taken into account. You mentioned the prevention and security plan. But we also believe that we must have the support of the Regions and the Communities. Therefore, Minister, is the federal government considering developing a prevention program as part of the collaboration that it can have with local authorities or will this be done through the existing prevention and safety plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the clear explanation. We can say that we are moving towards a new way of working on safety. We have discussed this several times in committee. While we are often stuck with geographical, administrative entities in government action, we are increasingly confronted with crime that is not bound by physical boundaries. This concerns both the boundaries and powers of the municipal services, as well as the problems of cybersecurity, for example: everything that transcends the municipalities and police zones. We need to find solutions to this. The Channel Plan is already a first step. It brings cooperation and information flow between these different entities as the main focus in the fight against radicalism and terrorism. The new approach is, of course, striking. We must not fool ourselves about this: it will be accompanied by falling and getting up. A continuous evaluation and adjustment will be important in this regard. The first question is: how does the Minister take this into account in the framework of the Channel Plan? You have indicated that you will carry out a monthly evaluation. How do you see the cooperation with the committee so that we can follow this closely? Data sharing is also an important part of the approach. It is true that the Channel Zone is facing a concentration of problems related to radicalism. Now it appears that there is also often a link with terrorism. Does it not fear that such a concentrated approach to the problem will lead to the relocation of the people and problems who have been identified? What measures are being taken to ensure the follow-up of persons who would fall outside the scope of the plan by moving or moving? How will the flow and distribution of information be with other judicial districts and police areas? In addition, the phenomenon of radicalisation can also take place anywhere, including in the smallest municipality or police area. It is therefore particularly important that the experience gained under the Channel Plan should also be made available to other municipalities and police areas. What are the options for best practice? How will this experience be shared with other police areas and municipalities? What support can we expect from the federal government? As always, security also requires an integrated approach. This is no different in the context of radicalism. This means cooperation with all relevant entities, local, regional and federal. After the sixth state reform, a special responsibility for security lies with the Brussels-Capital Region, primarily with the Prime Minister. I do not therefore understand why Mr Kir would, as it were, pass on to the Minister the black tip for the not so good cooperation. There is also an important competence here for the Prime Minister. How's the meeting with the Prime Minister going? What points of an integrated approach were put in place? Have you been together on the preventive measures that are primarily the responsibility of the Brussels-Capital Region? What have you guys got in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u17	Mr President, I just want to say to colleagues that I have not called into question the role of the Minister-President of the Brussels Region, which was reinforced by the sixth state reform. On the contrary. But I was clear: in law, the administrative police in this country are the responsibility of every mayor. The authority given to the Minister-President includes the establishment of a regional security program. The administrative police remain the full and complete responsibility of each mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u18	Mr President, Minister, a month ago the government approved the plan. It is good that we have an exchange of views on this, but it may be necessary to reconsider the name. You have said that it is not a "Channel Plan' that name is already being used, but a "Channel Zone' plan against radicalisation and terrorism. I hear my fellow Members here constantly using the term 'Channel Plan'. Maybe it should be an anti-radicalisation plan. I don't know, but it has to be a term that's a little easier in the mouth. You have explained in detail what the plan is like and when it is being implemented. I have heard a great deal in your explanatory statement about the need for cooperation, the need for cooperation, the creation of working groups and the existence of sub-groups. I didn't add it up, but you've talked a lot about it. That's strength on one side. In the fight against terrorism, all levels will and must work together. They need each other. On the other hand, it can also be a weakness, in the sense that there is a great deal of coordination and that there is a great deal of meeting to be done, especially in the field. I hope that in all (sub) working groups very practical and efficient work will be carried out in such a way that there is not too much time and energy in meetings and consequently fewer people are present on the ground. As regards the additional number of people and resources, you said that a total of 325 police officers were needed during this year. What additional people and resources are needed for the other services, for Justice and for the other actors involved? Can you give me a specific figure on that? As far as the extra police officers are concerned, my colleague from the MR has already said that they are actually people who come from other areas, who do not always know the terrain well or have no contact with it. How do you respond to that? What happens to the shortages in the areas where people come from? How will they be solved? You mentioned 600 new recruitments in October. Can you be very clear about that? My colleague from CD&V has already asked a question about the consultation with the municipalities and the Brussels-Capital Region. What are the results of the first consultation? You have said that a consultation has taken place, but what has been the result and what are the initial results? Then I have a question about registration policy, the state of housing. Who's registered where? How does control happen? This is important in the fight that is being waged. You may remember that we have a bill banning entry in the population register if a home is declared uninhabitable. Is it not useful in the current plan to support this bill and regulate it legally, so that uninhabitable dwellings can no longer serve as an address? Today, that is still possible. We believe that this should be made impossible as a matter of urgency. Last summer, we adopted a law by Mr Francken concerning the withdrawal of identity documents and passports. It seems that a number of implementing acts and directives still need to be followed. What's the timing of that? Can you give me an answer to that, or should I address your colleague? Then a question about the foreign terrorist fighters. Is there a difference in the plan between a clinger and a discreet follow-up? What exactly determines the difference in approach? Is it possible to get an explanation of this? In the plan we also read about the General National Database. Do you consider it necessary to reform the ANG? If so, at what time? You also mentioned the dynamic database for FTFs. I understand this isn't operational yet? Is that right? When will it be? I have one final question about measuring the results. It is true that a zero measurement of the supporting crime phenomena has been made. Can you explain that? What possibilities have already been explored with regard to the follow-up instrument?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u19	I have come here, although I may not be able to wait for your answers, Minister. I'm not going to ask a lot of questions either. It is a coincidence that tonight I have another meeting in Vilvoorde on the Channel Plan and on the link with the administrative authorities and enforcement policy at that level. First of all, I would like to express my general perception of the Channel Plan, which may be the same as yours, Minister. It's not in the coalition agreement. As mayor, it is not expected that there will ever be cooperation with Brussels colleagues and commission services on a Channel Plan in a very labour-intensive process. But I'm sure it's a necessary evil. I do not think it is a gift, but it is necessary, especially now that we are faced with more and more common crime problems. Terrorism and radicalism cross the borders between the Brussels municipalities and the Edge. I understand from the latest figures that this crime can spread throughout the rest of the country. In any case, it is my belief that the Channel Strip is facing common challenges effectively. So I think it is also a good thing that various governments, on the initiative of the federal government, are trying to cooperate in this. I see three major challenges, Minister. Firstly, there is the complexity of the approach, with which I do not mean that a different approach is possible. It's a complex fact. Secondly, I think there is also a challenge in maintaining engagements. Thirdly, I think it should be the ambition to draw some structural conclusions on this Channel Plan. It should therefore also carry a number of structural improvements over time. I would like to clarify these three points. You yourself referred to the complexity. It is about cooperation between police forces and judicial services. It is about cooperation between different municipalities and cities. It's about an administrative and police hatch. This means that there is a lot of meeting to be done, Mrs Battheu, and I think it is an invitation to do so as efficiently as possible. It is also cross-regional, which means that for my city at Flemish level the rules of the game are different as regards the administrative part. That only shows the complexity. I wonder, Minister, whether we should consider, in this context, whether there can be a cooperation agreement that goes beyond the Channel Plan? As far as the administrative section is concerned, I believe that this is the most important and sustainable in structural terms for the administrative authorities. I understand that the Region is being looked at from the Brussels context. I have committed myself and I have now also been promised that Flanders also wishes to engage in this. At that level too, it is good, but it is perhaps good that the bridge is also being struck. As far as complexity is concerned, it is a bit the price we pay for the complexity of our Constitution, but also for the different police forces contained in it. You know my opinion on this. I think there is an essential task here, and I disagree with other fellow Members at the local level. Whether we like to hear it or not, whether we like it or not, I think that the acute problem of radicalism should also be monitored and addressed locally. But I also think in other areas. That brings me to my second thought, the sustained commitment. The difficulty of this problem is that everyone involved must take responsibility. If this cooperation shows gaps or people do not take responsibility, then the result is very much at risk, I fear. Let us also be honest, the ambition of this Channel Plan in its acute mission to counter radicalism does not exclude that we will still have misery. In all honesty, however, it should have the ambition to significantly reduce the risk of it happening from that area where the problem is concentrated. I think, if that ambition is clear, it still requires a sustained commitment from all players. Not the least, I repeat myself in terms of the administrative, police, local level. This brings us, Mr Kir, to the difficult discussion of the role and responsibility of the local level. We can discuss this for a long time, but in this context there are a number of rules in our country, which are also basic for the local level. I have had to take note with great concern of the communication even from the public authorities that the population registers could not be set up. Now you do not need to know much about security policy to know that population registers are essential. By the way, this is also contained in laws and circular letters. So we cannot work on a Channel Plan without the ambition to put the population registers in order as quickly as possible. In my view, this is basic and à la limite, which should not be discussed in our current rule of law, even though that discussion is being put on the table. I find a second case completely disturbing, and I would therefore prefer to mention it at this committee meeting. Justice and Home Affairs Ministers have sent a new circular, the so-called foreign fighters directive of 21 August 2015, addressed to all mayors, to all prosecutors and to all police chiefs of our country. It defines exactly who has what role, from the OCAD to the federal and local police, the task forces and also the local police with the mayor, to which the minister has just referred. Now, Minister, I would like to repeat it here. If that circular letter isn't taken to heart... I even have the impression that that circular letter isn't even known everywhere. If it is not taken into account that this circular defines the directives with the responsibilities of all the actors, including at the local level and for the mayor, then I fear that there is a mortgage on the results of the Channel Plan. I think that's essential, no matter how difficult, ambiting or annoying it is. No matter how much work, police capacity, social and administrative capacity gets into it. It is a directive based on legal provisions and should therefore be implemented. I would like to take this opportunity to call for everyone involved in the Channel Zone to at least read and apply that directive. After all, it is no longer a question of a possible shift from the problem to other municipalities, as the previous speaker pointed out. After all, the problem remains within the Channel Zone. I have repeatedly illustrated that this area is actually one sociological space, in which groups and organisations are active in the field of radicalisation and recruitment. I have repeatedly welcomed that letter from the opposition because it has the merit of defining who should do what. We can discuss whether the balance is right, but he has the merit of making it clear. I don't always see that clarity coming up when I'm arguing with the other partners in the Channel Plan. One final problem is the discussion of police zones. I would also like to address Mr Kir explicitly to this effect. This is seen as an attack on Brussels or on Brussels politicians. It is argued that you have done so again, and that this is the guarantee of being active locally and having neighbourhood police. However, you will no longer be able to explain to anyone that in a modern security policy, police work in a capital city with 1.1 million inhabitants is fragmented over six police zones with 19 mayors at the helm who also have administrative police powers. It has followed that people have some sort of sclerosis. I am witnessing the fact that this has the effect that information from one zone to another does not circulate in the heart of the organisation of terrorism as we have known it. You won't be able to explain this anymore. It's not really an attack on the power and powers of mayors. As far as you are concerned, I would even like to add an argument. If you look at Brussels and compare it with other capitals, we are pretty much the champion of the number of policemen per inhabitant. Except I'm not sure if I'm gonna be able to determine this with you...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u20	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u21	Well, then you'd better show me those numbers. I've got other numbers. All I would like to say, Mr Kir, is that in the Brussels Capital Region there is a structural imbalance in the capacity of the police in which the Channel Zone is underwhelmed compared to other police areas in Brussels. So I think you should organise solidarity. It is not just about efficiency through a single police area in which you can have the guarantee that information will circulate better, but also about the solidarity that is needed. This is a debate which we will undoubtedly be able to continue in the light of the legislative proposals on this subject. Mr Minister, in order to complete this section on a sustained commitment, I hope that the federal government will be able to ensure that everyone takes responsibility. Everyone will take responsibility. I take responsibility, Mr Kir takes responsibility. We need to ensure that these commitments, as they are laid down in laws and circular letters, are effectively incorporated. That might be one of the biggest challenges for a federal government. I would like to end by expressing my reservations about the structural answers that need to be given. I won't be talking about the organization of police work anymore. Mr Kir, I would like to say a few words about this. I am also more and more convinced that even in Flemish territory the fragmentation of police zones has become obsolete. I think that this is no longer in line with the specialization that is needed in certain areas. The small police zones cannot be required to have all the capacities, instruments and modern techniques. I believe that there is a structural agenda that goes beyond the police areas in Brussels. I agree with that. Mr Minister, I come to those other structural answers. I can only point out that in this area, not only the Brussels-Capital Region, but also the Flemish government, together with the city of Vilvoorde, but within the framework of the Channel Plan, looked into the tasks, challenges, possibilities and legal adjustments for better administrative enforcement. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu pointed out the problem of uninhabitable declarations. I would like to add that the registers of permits may need to be crossed more efficiently with those of the population. I refer to the whole problem of dealing with the illegal economy contained in the Channel Plan. That is something we do share. The Buda zone is a sensitive area where we plan to work with all public authorities and inspection services. Administrative enforcement is at least as important as structural. This is, of course, for the other level of policy, but it may also require strengthening in order to do so. Prevention and the vulnerability of young people throughout the country have been highlighted, which could lead to radicalism everywhere. The spatial developments in the Channel Area are important to reveal a number of dubious economic activities. This can best be done through structural reflection on the spatial development of the area. I know that Brussels and Flanders are doing so, with a very difficult discussion about the T.OP Noordrand and so on. In any case, this should remain the structural commitment. If not, we can start over in ten or twenty years. I want to leave it at that. Finally, I agree with those who say that it is a process of falling and getting up. I believe that the relevant authorities, and in particular my administration at local level, should be able to account for why they receive additional support. I therefore intend to inform the partners in the Channel Zone in due course and also to give the federal government what we are doing with the 20 additional federal police officers assigned to the Vima police zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u22	Mr Bonte, we know that you are stepping up initiatives to curb radicalism in your territory. If I had to follow your reasoning of saying that to work better, you would have to have a single chief and a police area, we want to point out to you that being alone, with a police, you also have problems. You see, it's not that simple. There's no point in finding faults in this case. We must avoid entering into a bad debate that does not bring anything back to anyone. Together, we have been asking for ways to strengthen local police for several years. These means are not there. They even declined in 2015. Today means are coming, we are happy to welcome them. But when you listen to some people's reasoning, you almost have the impression that radicalism is implanted in seven Brussels municipalities plus Vilvorde. Go to Wallonia, Flanders. This phenomenon affects everyone. I would like to conclude with one sentence. Until we win the war against Daesh, there will be replicas in the western cities. All those who, in the majority, have committed themselves against Daesh today expose themselves to Daesh's rebuttals. To believe that the international problem of radicalism or terrorism is limited to the only municipality of Molenbeek or other Brussels municipalities is a decoy. This is a serious mistake. The problem is international. We can have debates to finish on the organisation of the police or the commune! But don't you see that the problem is first and foremost international?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed presentation and explanation. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we had asked, since the announcement of the plan, that we could have this exchange in order to obtain more figures and information on the whole plan. I would begin with general remarks about our vision and what we are withdrawing from this presentation. For us, the Canal Plan is the first part of the solution. It is mainly focused on repression. It is important that a second part be developed, devoted to prevention. A structural and comprehensive solution to deal with this problem must take into account a second aspect, the social aspect, which focuses on education, the fight against poverty, the employment of young people, with obviously – and you have stressed this – the partnership of the Communities and the Regions. But the federal government has not only a collaborative role to play in these partnerships, but also a leading role. You have talked about some of the consultations that are being carried out, but we ask you to go further and draw up such a comprehensive plan in terms of prevention. Secondly, we consider positively the reinforcements announced to the local police, since we have been asking for it for a long time. So what you're announcing here is good news. It is important that this be done mainly on neighbourhood work, as other colleagues have pointed out. In fact, neighbourhood agents are the first to be able to identify difficulties and alert services. That is why their field work is fundamental. Moreover, as the local police take over the competence of the federal police in terms of surveillance of targets, we are seeking experts in this field to join the local police in these tasks which are new to it. The consideration of the underground or "grey" economy and the networks of banditry also seems to us to be positive. These activities often constitute an alibi for crime and have a negative impact in neighbourhoods. With this in mind, we call for very close collaboration with local authorities so that good practice and exchange can take place in the way you have described on many occasions. I now turn to more specific questions. What will be the share of staff recruited and seconded? We know that detachments have recently taken place to carry out checks at the French border. How will you manage this so that everything goes as smoothly as possible? In this regard, is the duration of these staff detachments already determined? On what basis have these detachments been decided? Finally, is there not a risk that the original services will evacuate good elements or even experts that they would need? In this case, how are you going to make up for these voids that are created in other services? You're talking about an evaluation of the plan in six months. We were asking for it. Do you have any objective criteria on which to base your assessment? Another important point in our view is the debate that has been taking place since the beginning: the delimitation of the zone. Today, we are talking about a Canal Plan, eight communes, including seven Brussels communes. Plan Molenbeek, which evolved towards the Canal Plan, was initially spoken of, but it remains stigmatizing to point out seven out of eight Brussels communes. Objectively, why not select other municipalities? We know the problems that Antwerp has experienced with Sharia4Belgium as well as those of Verviers. Why not take the opportunity to draw up a comprehensive plan to combat radicalism which concerns all the municipalities in Belgium? Again, it is a question that I ask you objectively. This escapes us, because the best proof that this plan remains stigmatizing is what Mr Degroote has said today. It is pure "Brussels bashing" that we have seen today. This is completely unacceptable in this debate. Frankly, Mr Degroote, it is not up to the debate that concerns the security of all citizens, whether they are Antwerp, Brussels, vivordois or vervietois. It is extremely unfortunate that you are systematically obliged to continue typing on this nail. Frankly, it serves you, as well as the quality of your remarks and your credibility. We are really looking for an explanation at this level, because of the persistent stigma. I want proof of what has been said today. At the level of the local police, I return to the additional skills and tasks that they are asked to carry out. The local police become competent for discreet surveillance of targets and for contextualization investigations, which were previously assigned to the federal police. I would like to know the criteria on which you decided that these tasks would be transferred to the local police and that, if necessary, they would perform these tasks more effectively than the federal police. Are all local police in charge of discreet surveillance of targets or only local police in the Canal Plan areas? Does this extend to all police areas or only those of the Canal Plan? I come to another point, of which you have not, unless I am mistaken, spoken today, but which has been referred to in the press. You'll see if you have to complain or not. With regard to the identification and mapping of mosques and places of prayer in the territory concerned by the Canal Plan, are it only or also the illegal mosques that are targeted? This could pose a problem of efficiency, since it is well known that today radicalized young people do not necessarily go to mosques anymore, because they are being monitored. So we wondered if you were planning to identify and map other places, not necessarily places of prayer. Finally, my last question relates to the duration of the plan. We've already talked about it. You mentioned it in part, but I still wanted to insist on that to ask for clarity in relation to that. What is the long-term objective of the Canal Plan? Is your goal to make it structural? In this case, it would be better to clarify things directly so that things can follow at the level of organization and funding, with annual budgets, decisions taking into account the structural nature. Or is it still your goal that it is temporary? But it is well known that the temporary becomes quickly undetermined. That is why I also ask you for clarity at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u24	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this detailed statement of this plan, which is no longer well known whether it should be called "channel" or "antiradicalism". Through this difficulty, and some parliamentarians, even from the majority, have said, there is maturation, and that is good news. The initial idea was to pass Molenbeek to the Kärcher, and although it is felt that Mr Degroote still has this desire, it has turned into something more global, more intelligent, and which takes into account aspects such as administration and judicial prevention. We feel, in terms of geography, and in terms of the surface and the elements to be taken into account, a maturation of your plan, and I welcome it. It would be useful to move on to a national, federal level; other areas deserved special attention. I would remind Mr Degroote that terrorism and radicalism in Belgium were born in Antwerp. That's where it started a few years ago, and there's a particular responsibility in this place, since it's about establishing responsibilities. Having said that, it would be desirable for you to tell us more and to give us the figures of these objective parameters on which you have worked. Any plan must have quantified objectives. We are not used to this in politics, but it is important to know that there are so many foreign terror fighters (FTF) in Molenbeek, Vilvorde or elsewhere and that our goal is to reduce this number. We know that there is so much drug-related crime, or something else, and our goal is to go from that figure to that figure. It is not too much in the Belgian political culture, but I have had the opportunity to work with the European Commission and I think that if we have a plan, we must have quantified objectives, expected results and a scoreboard. I'm asking for a dashboard. Sometimes objectives and means, objectives and arrangements, objective and organization are confused. We need to focus on the expected results: how many FTFs and departures in Syria are we going to try to decrease? I know it's complicated, but the goal is that. My first question is very general: what makes it possible for you today to say that this plan will prevent a terrorist attack in Belgium in the future, or that it will be prepared to target a third country? That is the central question. We can't find her anywhere. Is this plan relevant to this objective? How will we measure it? I believe that this is a fundamental aspect. It is important not to forget it. You have also set up a working group to address the issue of effectiveness. It would be interesting to know whether the working group already had figures on the particular threat in those eight communes compared to other communes in the country. We talked about Antwerp. We could have talked about Verviers, Malines, etc. What are the indicators today? How do we plan to make them evolve? These issues are important. It is on this basis that this plan can evolve. It is not on the basis of the number of police officers who will be engaged, but rather on the basis of the results that will be achieved. In addition, a larger number of missions will be assigned to the local police in terms of information gathering and monitoring. There is therefore a change in the centre of gravity in the collection of information, since in the past, when faced with terrorism issues, it was the federal level that quickly took over the collection of information, surveillance and all the elements necessary to verify the level of danger and threat. Today, these tasks are primarily the responsibility of the local police. How do we interpret this shift, this change in the centre of gravity? Does this result from the fact that it did not work at the federal level? Does it result from the fact that it works better at the local level? As far as I'm concerned, I can't help but make the connection with the news. Indeed, it appears that the terrorist leadership had been in possession of a series of information about the Abdeslam brothers since July 2014 and that this information has not been sufficiently processed. However, it appears that the said information was accurate. Some sources in my possession confirm this. In any event, it would appear that information dating back to the summer of 2014 was clear as to the existence of a threat, but that the said information was not dealt with in a sufficiently serious manner and was filed without further action. Is it to address this kind of gap, weakness, dysfunction – as some say – that you are changing the collection of information at the local level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u25	As you say, it's very good to collect information, but then it needs to be circulated, processed and used by the higher levels. How will we have more guarantees tomorrow than this information, which will a priori be better collected, will be better dealt with by other levels of responsibility, including the federal level? How are you going to improve the processing of information so that no more crucial, fundamental, extremely serious information remains in the drawers and are not seriously monitored? It seems to me very important to receive an answer to this question. With regard to the dynamic database, you said that everything would be ready in January 2016. Then you indicated that a bill would have to be passed in order to be able to give certain authorizations. Has your bill passed to the Council of State? When do you think we can discuss it? What seems essential to me for tomorrow, and which was a serious gap yesterday, is the way in which information is processed, circulated, shared and given rise to specific actions. Finally, with regard to cartography and some of the data that are collected systematically, I have recently been interested in mosques, including mosques considered to be Salafist and not registered as mosques. Will special action be taken to register them as such? We know that there are two major problems today: firstly, the majority of mosques do not account for them when they are bound to do so by the law on the non-profit organizations, and secondly, they do not register as places of worship because this allows them to circumvent the law that prohibits a place of worship from receiving international funding. Your government knows, as the previous government knew. Currently, the influence of Salafism on certain environments is becoming more and more evident. What are you waiting for these mosques to finally be recognized? What will your plan of action be in this regard, so that they will comply with the Law on the NSOs and the Law on Worship?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u26	Mr President, I thank the Minister for bringing to this debate an interest which, I recognise, goes beyond partisan debate. I will not say any more about the words of Mr Degroote who has recited his N-VA anti-Bruxellois speech as others recite their verses out of context and without contextualizing the word. This speech may have to be adapted one day to arrive at today's time. It's your way of expressing yourself, it's true. More fundamentally, the Minister's proposals are of interest even if there are aspects that deserve an evaluation. You've realized that we can't do without the local police and the work of the zonal police. Too often, there was a lack of understanding and it was recalled that, in either case, information and information-gathering work at the local level could be done with intelligence and efficiency. You have now understood that support for zonal police was not a demand or obsession of mayors who always want more because they believe, so, to strengthen their power. This is a need for efficiency in the prevention and punishment of acts of particular gravity. What does not seem to me to be sufficiently articulated in your plan, and other stakeholders have mentioned it, is the support of the federal police to the zonal police. On this question, you have not been very specific. The major reform of the police services in 1998, which ended the police war and the partitioning of the police services, was based on a fundamental concept. The temptation of partitioning still exists despite the legal texts which specify the tasks of each other, but these texts are not enough because it is above all a state of mind that must lead police action. Depending on who is responsible for the various services, there may be more willingness to collaborate with other services or with other levels of police or responsibility than with some. However, the basic concept was to say that the zonal police are responsible for community policing tasks, including gathering information and combating certain types of crime that are within their reach, but that, more fundamentally, the federal police are providing specialisation. The federal police have the expertise to specialize. I am replying to Mr Bonte: it is not really the size of the police zone that matters. It is true that the police areas of Brussels/Ixelles, Antwerp or Liège have more specialized services to combat certain types of crime than smaller ones. But in the face of phenomena as important as that of the fight against terrorism, no one believes that a zonal police, however consistent, alone can organise the follow-up of a process to combat this type of crime. If there is not full support from the federal police and its specialized services, the company is lost in advance. I'm not doing the federal police trial here, or any other police service. I am simply seeking to optimize collaborations, to study the methodology put in place so that all levels of power, from police to politicians, work together to achieve the same objective. But in your plan, you don't tell us much about it. Of course, there are now contact points between the zonal police and the federal police to follow up on certain information. I recognize that this is a step forward. But when we question the heads of bodies, we do not always have a return. Even today, it is a matter of culture and information management within the police service and not of political responsibility. The information goes back and the monitoring of the treatment of the latter, transmitted by the zonal policies to other specialized services, including the federal police, is no longer ensured. The zonal police are told that this is no longer within their jurisdiction and that the case is being handled. However, he is told to continue to do data collection or community monitoring work, without knowing whether there is any disruption in the work of each other. I believe that there are still things to be improved in terms of clarification or collaboration. I am thinking, for example, of the searches that took place at the last minute during the famous weekend in December, on the night of Sunday to Monday, under the leadership of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. To that end, investigators had been appointed to support the federal police. In some cases, the zonal police in the Brussels Region have received information, in other cases not. It was thus sometimes mandated to support, sometimes not, and no one could know according to what criteria. As soon as this kind of information is found on social networks, to find out more, we turn to the local police, often, and to the mayor. I received night calls from journalists to tell me that there was a search in the commune and to find out if I knew more. I replied that I had nothing to know about it and that it was not my role as a mayor to be informed of such things. I asked my head of body if he knew anything about it, but he didn't know anything about it! There are therefore terrible frustrations and if the rise of terrorism is to be prevented, it is necessary to go beyond the framework of rivalry between levels of power within the police. I believe that efforts are being made, there are places, working groups. But when I read the Canal Plan, I don't have an answer to this relationship between zonal police, federal police and specialized federal police services. I will never blame a Minister of the Interior for not being able to prevent a terrorist attack. Frankly, no one can believe today that one cannot be confronted with a totally unpredictable terrorist attack, for which all services will be missed all the clues that might have been known. But I would not like us to say tomorrow, when we have strengthened the zonal police in Brussels, if an attack occurs, that we have not been able to prevent it! I am talking about Brussels because if there were to be an attack, it will probably be more in Brussels than elsewhere because its international role will ensure that the impact will be greater. This should not be the beginning of a bad debate between us if we were still facing threats. I do not wish to do so, but we all know that we are living with this permanent uncertainty for a long time. Today we are under a collective obligation, from all political leaders, regardless of the level of power, whatever our differences on how to apprehend certain phenomena, to move beyond this type of conflict in order to achieve greater efficiency. Today, Brussels police areas have invested in counter-terrorism missions – which was not their primary task. In no police area in the country, let us be aware of this, there was no organized service for this purpose. This is a recent phenomenon which has led to an awareness, both in Brussels and in other parts of the country, of the need to dedicate police capacity to this substantive work, even through the collection of information. A methodology is only beginning to develop. We discussed this with the management of dynamic data banks. We'll come back, because I still haven't seen your royal decree. I know that he is somewhere in the archanes of the Council of State's opinion procedures. Perhaps you will tell us more about its outcome. In my view, one of the keys to managing collaboration between levels of authority will be this ability to properly manage the information database. At the same time, we may still have to adapt our processes and methodologies to other ways of acting by those who propose to commit terrorist acts. We see in them a great flexibility and adaptability depending on the devices we install. This is where the great difficulty experienced by the police and intelligence services lies. Let's have the honesty to say it! They're always one step ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u27	They may be leaving the canal; I hope so anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u28	Then we have to see where the current will take them! It depends on navigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u29	Fresh Vilvorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u30	On this word of mind, I continue. Since the channel does not have a certain current, let us be prepared to face any hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I have a few thoughts on various aspects of the Canal Plan that are of concern to me. My main criticism relates to one of the mistakes that is to want to massify the gathering of information and the monitoring of the population. We have had this debate in the committee a few times and our opinions differ on the effectiveness of the measures taken: you are in view of expanding the means of monitoring the population in a general and linear way, while we are advocating a much more focused approach (gathering targeted information on the networks that are problematic). This divergence of view goes through all of our debates. You come with fingerprints, all the mineralogic plates of the population and the cars that drive on our motorways, you also come with a registration system for the whole population that uses the planes and today you come with a Canal plan whose goal is still to stigmatize the whole population. At first, when you talked about the Canal Plan, I figured out why not, and then ask me what channel you were talking about. If you were thinking of the Albert Canal, I would have advised you to include Liège, Antwerp and the Willebroek Canal. But obviously, what interests you is only a small portion of the canal that passes through a few communes. On this side, there is a basic software error on the approach to terrorist phenomena. Rather, I advocate an analytical approach to what has been and what has not been in the past. We cannot avoid the debate on mistakes that have been made. Today, information is coming to the surface indicating that there have been serious communication problems between, inter alia, the local police and the federal police and the prosecutor's office. And this is not a detail because we are talking about information collected locally, that goes back to the prosecutor's office and that is not processed. The effectiveness of the measures taken is an important debate to draw the tree of causes detailing what has not been. We differ on the measures to be taken. Thirdly, it is a matter of consultation. In this institutional Belgium, we must dare to hold that debate and dare to recognise that this sixth state reform will lead to inefficiency. We have a debate today on the Channel Plan, but we cannot debate prevention measures, because that is not a federal competence. What are we doing? I'll put the question to N-VA. Can you not see that the division of powers merely leads to more meetings? A competency – prevention – is subdivided and ten minutes after the division's decision, a coordination meeting has to be repeated. I have not stopped hearing today about coordination meetings with a great S. What is this effectiveness? It would be time to have a general, comprehensive, inclusive approach over all distributed competencies and not to divide everything. All the mayors have spoken today – sorry the PTB does not have a mayor yet; it will soon be – hoping to have a response here, in committee, from the minister, from the federal. It would be time to have an effective exchange of information and to stop this division of competences. If it was only a matter of money - let us admit - but here we are talking about effectiveness in the fight against terrorism. We need to go a lot more cooperation. That is why, Minister, I have proposed – and I am disappointed that this is not included in the Canal Plan – to set up this inter-federal deradicalization centre. We need a comprehensive approach, an approach that is not just criminal! It's important. When we analyze the tree of the causes of what has not been in the fight against radicalization, many testimonies show that teachers, relatives, friends have not dared to bring the information because there is only one authority that can do it, criminal. It is therefore necessary to set up an inter-federal centre which also allows us to be preventive and to listen to all these people. However, this Canal Plan is devoid of any preventive approach. Another thing that surprised me, minister – and I can see your communication technique: we go up first in the media towers, "we're going to clean Molenbeek", we stigmatize the Muslim community and in committee, we go back a little while saying that we were misunderstood – is that you point out mosques as the source of the problem. As far as I'm concerned, I think they're a solution. And you know very well: most studies show that problems do not occur within mosques, but outside. We have an ideological, political struggle to win among the population in Belgium. What are you doing? You stigmatize the whole community. In fact, you are in total inefficiency. We had the debate last week. Instead, try to work with actors on the ground in an inclusive and not only repressive manner, pointing the finger at the whole community by saying that if one of the Abdeslam brothers is still at large, it is because he enjoys significant support in the community. What's the point? I believe there is a substantive debate to be held on the approach to be taken in the fight against terrorism. Last item: on the quantities of information. It's important to keep track of what's happening at the local police level. What do we do with the information? That is the main question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u32	What do we do with the information? That's where the problem lies. There's plenty of information. The question is, what do we do with it? That's what Mr. Marc Trévidic says in France. He says the problem is not that we don't have enough information, but that we have too much information and we don't know how to deal with it. Today, the means given to bodies that can process information, investigating judges, are not increased. The entire Canal Plan is based on the strengthening of the public prosecutor's office and the entire police service. Where are the investigating judges in this Canal Plan? They are the ones who can best judge, on the basis of expertise, specialization, what to do or not to do. Today, however, you are trying to send the hot potato back to the local police, who may have a contribution in the field of information, but we are not going to build a Molenbeek State Security or a public prosecutor's office in Auderghem! The fight against terrorism requires a concentration of forces and expertise. Today, however, the hot potato is sent back to the communes. This is a completely ineffective approach. Mr. Minister, you will understand that we will not agree. I guess that wasn't your goal today. I have a few specific questions. Various sources show that federal police officers dispatched to the communes do not want to stay there. Do you confirm this real turnover problem found on the ground? Do you intend to implement a work programme with mosques so that you can have an inclusive vision in this area? What are we going to do about the ideological fight against radicalization? For this is the first problem to be solved in order not to feed what serves as a ground for terrorist logic. Do you intend to include this dimension in your Canal Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u33	Minister, your Canal Plan focuses primarily on creating working groups and building capacity. I understood that a shift from the federal reserve to the police areas would be made to fill the shortage of troops in an emergency. Nevertheless, the hole will be upstream. You also say you want to speed up recruitment. How do you intend to do so knowing that the training of an inspector is at least one year, to which must be added the time limit for the recruitment procedure? At my humble level, I would like to offer you a suggestion. Minister, have you thought about contacting the candidates who passed all the tests except the interview? This would save time and would not leave the national reserve virtually empty, which could lead to excessive solicitation of police areas in the HyCap. Minister, we are counting on you to take appropriate measures to avoid as much as possible any attack, even if there is no zero risk. The problem is vast. To make a sense of humour in Italian, I would like this plan to be a Gran Canale and not a canaletto.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u34	That is the end of all the groups. But, of course, I don't want to deny anyone the floor. Is there anyone who would like to ask a question now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u35	Mr Minister, what I am going to ask of you is practical and practical and indeed relates to the mobility mechanism. I mentioned it a few days ago. With regard to the reinforcement that we have received in the western zone, and more specifically in Molenbeek, the theoretical figure of 50, which had actually resulted in a reinforcement of 39, has already been taken from 11 as of 1 March, so today with mechanical replacement of these people who have left on the basis of mobility requested before arriving in reinforcement. Are you considering a reflection on mobility mechanisms, particularly with regard to the Canal Plan, in so far as the success of the Canal Plan, which we all want, the majority and the opposition, will only be ensured through effective reinforcement and evaluation? This assessment is of course only possible with stable or stabilized staff. One aspect on which I would like particular attention to be paid is that of mobility for which accommodation and adjustments should be taken as long as the Canal plan lasts. Secondly, at the level of the area, we have provided reinforcement as part of the strengthening of border control. This reinforcement has not been taken. The strength delivered by the police zone of two sections - 17 or 18 men -Friday and Monday was not taken from the strengthening of the Canal plan. But they are men who are taken from the hypothecized capacity. Should this mortgaged capacity work well while the Canal Plan is deployed? On the one hand, the Brussels area is being strengthened and on the other hand, solidarity is being sought on the same ground with regard to the strengthening of border controls. This does not seem questionable to me, especially since the measures are effective and successful. There is no doubt that these measures must be taken. Is there not a nuance to be given with regard to those covered by the Canal Plan in the context of this mortgaged capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u36	I will not repeat the arguments of my fellow Members. I heard Mrs Lahaye-Battheu almost literally quote from the approach of two types of foreign fighters. I do not remember the terminology exactly, but I doubt that description was in a press release somewhere. I think she's quoting from the plan itself. Either that's for a public hearing or a closed hearing. Maybe then we can all work at the same speed. Is the plan available or accessible to the committee members, possibly in a closed session?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u37	It is important to review all the critical and less critical elements of such an approach. Many things have been touched in the initial presentation, but deserve further clarification here and there. I will try to answer the whole series of additional questions as precisely as possible. Mr Degroote, I think I have already replied to your questions on timing and budget during my initial presentation. The answer in terms of timing is as simple as the problem is complex: as long as it takes. It would be a fantastic signal to terrorists to announce that the Molenbeek plan will last a year. Then they can go on vacation for a year and attack when we leave Molenbeek. I'm sorry to make fun of it, but the answer is as long as it takes. At the same time, we want it to be as short as possible. Hopefully, and we will do everything in our power to do so, the plan will bear fruit in all its facets and at all levels, so that at some point we can go into a normal mode of operandi. I also replied in relation to the budgetary impact. Staff costs amount to EUR 24.25 million on an annual basis, if all personnel have been replaced. That's for the full 485, so the 322 plus the federal reserve. The combined investment costs and operating costs amount to 12.5 million euros. Mr. Kir asked me about the nature of the investments. These include the need for uniforms; police inspectors must be provided with the equipment necessary for the proper conduct of their duties. Mrs Schepmans being absent, I am sure that Mr. Pivin will pass the message. Officers from the Federal Reserve will come in addition to the community police, because the community police is the key to the solution for me. I think that it would be good to assign these officers as much as possible to the interventions and that those who are currently assigned to the interventions relay the neighbourhood inspectors. Is this an ideal situation? No, but I don't have any better things to offer right now! Before new recruits are available, it will take time, but in the meantime, this proximity approach can be adopted by police officers who are used to working in these areas, while those who come from the Federal Reserve will be assigned to the interventions. Other colleagues have asked me about monitoring information with the local police. For me, it is necessary to provide him with all the information necessary to ensure a proper functioning at the local level and to be able to follow the course of events. Apparently, there are problems, in some areas it works, in others less. We need to solve this; we need the same thing everywhere. It may be necessary to establish rules on how to work, but it is unacceptable to work in a different way. For me, the planned database is operational within the federal police. Several people asked the question. This database must be up-to-date, in real time. We do not yet have a legislative framework. Mr. Dallemagne asked where we were. The second reading of the bill will be done by the government on Friday. The first reading was made a few weeks ago. The comments of the Council of State and the Commission for the Protection of Privacy had to be incorporated. Then I can send it to Parliament and Mr Metsu's committee can deal with it. In response to a question from Ms. Schepmans, I would like to have a federal prevention plan, but the question of jurisdiction arises. Who am I to disrespect the division of skills? As far as prevention is concerned, I believe that the Communities and the Regions must take the initiative. But I'm ready to help. If my services and administration can be useful, I'm here. I want to participate, but it's not up to me to put this structure in place. Mr Demon, you asked a number of precise questions about the evaluation and how to follow it up. At the end of my speech I offered to the chairman of this committee on a regular basis, but without exaggeration, to come here for an evaluation of the plan. You asked: what if the marked persons move? Then we'll follow them. That's the advantage. Backup's coming out of the federal reserve. When a crime phenomenon moves, we will also move, that is clear. Even to Antwerp, if I have to. You also asked how best practices can be exchanged between the different zones. I believe that the national task force should play its role there. There are local task forces, there are local committees for full security. The national task force gets all that information, it will share best practices with the other zones. This is already happening to some extent, but I believe that this process can be improved. You also asked how the talks with the Prime Minister were going. There has been regular consultations, including when this plan was drawn up, between my administration, my cabinet, and Mr Vervoort's cabinet. That was a constructive cooperation, where everyone well knew who has what powers and who has what responsibilities. I would like to continue this discussion and see how we can coordinate things on a continuous basis. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you asked for additional people and resources, including from other services. We make 320 people available, and 160 people are added to other services, especially in the case of the Justice Department. I replied to the question on community policing. As far as new recruitment is concerned, I would like to repeat that there is currently a training programme. There has been a recruitment, and from the training that is in progress, if they all succeed, 600 people will come by October of this year. They can then be divided. Meanwhile, another recruitment campaign has started. The training of these recruits starts in May of this year. 400 seats are provided. The same will happen again in September and 200 seats will be provided. I also said it last week in this committee: it is intended to do 1400 recruitments every year in 2016, 2017 and 2018. In addition to the Channel Plan, we also have the overall plan, I shall say the plan of EUR 400 million, whereby we want to increase the head count of the federal police, i.e. the number of operational policemen, by 1000. So these are not 1000 recruitments, because recruitment is also needed to accommodate those who leave the police force. The number of recruitments must therefore be higher. In order to raise that head count by 1000, we want to recruit 1400 new people every year, at least for the next three years. I would like to comment on the problem of the uninhabitable declaration. With a plan like this, everything has to do with everything. I said in my policy letter that I know this problem and that I also experienced it as mayor. However, the powers are spread across different levels and we need to initiate that consultation with those other levels. This is indeed a contradiction which the government itself organises: on the one hand imposing an obligation to register and, on the other hand, declaring uninhabitable homes and the like. That is a contradiction, for which I do not yet have a ready-to-use answer. However, I agree with you that we need to tackle this. I have also said that this is on the agenda for 2016, so we will certainly continue to do so. I've already answered the questions about the database foreign fighters. Then there is the issue of the withdrawal of identity documents and passports. The Royal Decree was published on 5 January 2016. It has therefore already been published and the procedure is therefore in force. The same applies to Article 65/2 of the consular office concerning the withdrawal of the passport. This is to implement the law of 10 August. The KB has been published and can therefore be applied. As far as zero measurement is concerned, I can tell you that Dirco Brussels will draw up a plan of results. We will start with a zero-rate plan in this report. The three axes of that result plan are the effort measurement, the output and the outcome or effect. This means that this is measured by an external organisation. We are not only going to have the police themselves measured, but also an external organisation. As regards the state of zero measurement, I can tell you that for the parameters weapons, false documents and drugs, the strategic analysts of the federal are ready, for the period 2010-November 2015. The data have been mapped. With regard to zero measurement radicalisation and terrorism, this is still being developed by the OCAD. That's not quite ready. There will be a quantitative and qualitative measurement every year. I propose that, after such a qualitative measurement, after such a half-yearly measurement, I come to the committee with the results. The first time it will be a comparison between the zero measurement and the result after six months. Mr Dallemagne, this is also an answer to your question. It is not by chance that it is not usual in politics to have measurable objectives. But given the importance of the phenomenon, I think we need to determine it. And I admit that this could cause me a lot of problems. But be it! Mr Bonte, I endorse your three challenges. It is indeed complex. I do like the idea of a cooperation agreement. I have already said this on an earlier occasion. Mr Vanden Burre, you asked questions about recruitment and secondment. We will first work with the Federal Reserve, then as soon as recruitment and training are complete, we will have better stability. I've already answered about the duration. On your questions on the basis of secondment, I think there is political responsibility and operational responsibility. It is not up to me to say who should take a position and where, unless it leads to serious problems that the operational police cannot solve, in which case I should intervene and perhaps change something. But, for the moment, this is an operational responsibility within the police; I will not choose who will settle the traffic and who will take care of the Brussels tunnels. Several of you have asked why this area precisely and whether there is no phenomenon of violent extremism in other places. There are others, but in most cases this is in a single area: in Verviers there is an area; in Antwerp there is an area. Here we have a phenomenon around a Region, in the municipality of Vilvorde and in some Brussels municipalities. There must therefore be coordination, working together and putting the various services and institutions around the table. This is more the case here than in other places. If we have to do it in other places, we will. Here, with so many municipalities and five police zones implemented, there is a need for coordination and an integrated plan. This has nothing to do with stigma. When you put in place a targeted action, you can always say it's stigma. But this is not the case here; this plan is intended to make a whole set of things work. With regard to the mapping of mosques, I know that my colleague Koen Geens is working on it. This is a responsibility of the Justice Department. You are quite right in saying that it is in other places that radicalization takes place rather than in recognized mosques. I have a lot of contact with the mothers of the foreign fighters and all of them tell me that their sons and daughters were no longer attending mosques at a time of radicalization because the mosques were, according to these young people, too moderate. They were therefore looking for answers on the Internet or in "garages" frequented by unofficial preachers. This does not mean that mosques should not be followed, but it is not the most important path of radicalization. I have responded to the request for numerical targets. Mr Dallemagne, I don't think we're going to the local to collect the information. Local police and social services are best placed because they are close to the ground. The role of local task forces is important. The August 2015 circular settled the matter. With respect to the database bill, I responded. Mr. Maingain went out while I was answering his questions. I repeat that if there is a problem of cooperation between the local and federal police and if there is a difference in perception, I want to resolve this problem. This is unacceptable. We must have the same approach everywhere to the same phenomenon. Thank you for reporting it to me, I'll try to solve this. The local police, the regional authorities, the federal level and even Europe, we are all in the same boat. I do not think the people will complain; these are political issues and we have a common responsibility. Mr Hedebouw, thank you for your remarks, even if our plan goes in a different direction than you would like. That is the principle of democracy. As far as your question is concerned, police officers are actually assigned to areas close to the canal and try to leave them as soon as possible, but there are not many of them. The phenomenon exists and we have to work on it, but we have made the choice to quickly implement it. Over time, we will improve this process. I've already answered about the mosques. With regard to the ideological struggle and the counter-propaganda to be put in place with regard to the statements made by Daesh to the attention of young people in the neighbourhoods, we have a project at the federal level. We are working with the European level and the United Kingdom to set up a communication system available to the Member States. At present, we are working with 12 Member States. In Belgium, it is more the Communities that will be the "clients" of this system and we are in contact with the two Communities to see how to implement it. This is where the role of the federal level ceases because it is more the responsibility of the Communities to act. Mr Carcaci, I have already answered you with regard to recruitment. Mr Pivin, in evaluating this plan, we must reflect on the mobility mechanism. I agree with you, absolute mobility puts us in trouble. As far as border control reinforcement is concerned, each area must make an effort, including Brussels areas. Indeed, I do not have a detachment of a hundred policemen who have nothing to do but wait for something to happen at the borders or in Brussels. It is always important to set priorities and deduce the mechanisms to be put in place. Mr Top, with regard to the availability of the plan, it was divided among the mayors. So I can make it available to the committee. I think I have answered most of the questions. If I've skipped a question, it's not because I thought they were too hard, but because I missed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u38	Mr President, very briefly. In the long run I felt charmed by the interest, especially of French-speaking colleagues. Apparently, I hit a nerve. I have simply based myself on an official report from the P Committee. Everyone has the right to interpret it. I can also base myself on documents, which is also my right. One should not regard that as an attack or a special method, that is certainly not my intention. I can only say things as we can read them. As far as stigmatizing is concerned, I will not answer that anymore, because the Minister has already done so. I agree with his opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u39	I would like to say that the minister has been comprehensive in his responses. But on the question of your choices, I do not agree with you. I think you've been pretty evasive about the criteria. My colleague asked you about the objective parameters for choosing. Now you're talking about a pond, but people don't stop 10 or 20 kilometers away. Malines and Antwerp are not far away, etc. For Brussels, the period to pass is difficult because it is always the time that is being put forward when you have consulted the figures like me this week, it is not the Brussels municipalities that have sent the most jihadists to Syria. You answer here every time in Parliament that if it is necessary, you will expand; do it! Look at the figures in Walloon and Flemish cities and make a national plan that avoids stigmatizing one municipality or the other. We must start from local realities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u40	I wanted to emphasize the presentation of the plan that was made by the minister. Putting reinforcement on several Brussels municipalities is a plus in the fight against terrorism. Rather, it is a positive gesture towards Brussels and not a negative targeting. For the rest, the Minister's explanation of the plan's progress was very comprehensive. There will certainly be evaluations, and as you have indicated, collaboration between the different levels - local, federal, intelligence, security, prosecution - is obviously absolutely essential, and it is within this framework that we must work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u41	Thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that you do not wish to stigmatize either by your actions or by your words. I want to give you the benefit of the doubt. Two concrete things: first, try to convince your colleagues in the N-VA to stop doing this - this is again what we saw this afternoon - and then, I mean that you want to work in geographical areas, again without stigmatizing, so I look forward to the presentation of your plan in Antwerp in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your almost complete answers. I will first make a comment on these famous objective parameters. It would be important to analyse them. But you tell us that, in fact, you don't yet have the parameters of the Radicalism Plan. You're only collecting them. You have the parameters for everything you've told me about drugs, crime, etc., but not about radicalism. I'm a little surprised. You tell us on the one hand that you have based your plan on precise, numerical and objective indicators, and then you tell me today that you do not yet have them. I think there is a surprising and surprising element here, which I invite you to clarify. It is very important not to rely on impressions, intuitions or, in some cases and for some members of your party, on elements of anti-Bruxelloi stigma. We will see at that time what these communes are becoming, of which I am also certain that they have needs and that they thank you for the additional resources granted to them today and which were withdrawn from them at the beginning of the legislature, which I also recall. Overall, the police received less resources. This may also be necessary elsewhere. You didn't answer me about the second element. I mentioned recent news, which showed that there had been information in the Federal Police about the Abdeslam brothers since July 2014. This information was accurate and consistent. It appears that this information had not been processed. I'd like to hear your reaction to that. Since you have referred to it, how will you, as part of your plan, correct these problems or failures? How will it be avoided in the future that information collected at local level is not followed by actions at higher level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u43	I'll say two things. Specific criteria were used to define the regions referred to. One of them was the number of people on the OCAM lists. I gave this to Koen Metsu in an answer to a written question; the numbers are known. What OCAM is doing now is an analysis of radicalization. This is a much more in-depth study. With regard to this article, I obtained the interim report from Committee P this morning. Why not sooner? Because it was stamped Eyes only here in Parliament. This morning, we had an internal committee meeting. Therefore, I have not yet read this report in detail. I can't pass on anything to you. I will, of course, go through it and analyze its content, but I am not going to rely on a press article to comment on such a serious phenomenon. I am not in a position to draw any conclusions at this stage. This article is based on this interim report of Committee P. After reading this report, I will draw conclusions and consider what needs to be done. But the case is too serious to improvise anything now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u44	Will we have the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u45	That's what I said at the time of the first evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u46	Minister, about your security briefing note, where are you in relation to the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u47	In mid-February, we had a meeting with the Regions. It went well. We are in the process of finalizing this framework note. It will be released this month according to my estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 91, by Mr Demeyer and Questions Nos 9199 and 9398 by Mr Demon are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u49	Mr President, Minister, a general principle of the organisation of internal police mobility is that mobility assignments take place exclusively on a voluntary basis. On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions in force, a police officer may have to be demoted on a baremic scale during mobility. It would therefore be logical and useful for the person concerned to be informed in advance of a change of rank or scale. This is apparently not the case. Interpreting the relevant legislation, it could be considered that prior information, although generally issued, is only optional. Failure to notify the person concerned in advance of a change in the baraemic scale does not constitute a restriction of his rights. Minister, can you clarify this situation, so as to create a dispute in statutory matters? How many police officers, as a result of internal mobility, have been demoted on a baremic scale? How many have they not been informed beforehand and have they complained about it? Are you considering making prior information mandatory in case of reduction of the baraemic scale during mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u50	Mr Frédéric, there are three types of cases where the allocation of a lower baraemic scale occurs in the event of mobility. The first case is that of a senior inspector with specialisation (IPS) who asks to go through mobility in the regular average setting. If he is satisfied, he obtains the rank of chief inspector and moves to the baraemic scale of the regular framework but with maintaining his seniority. SPIs from the former criminal police who have the rank of SPI as an insertion grade never lose their rank and baraemic scale in the event of a request for mobility to a job as a senior inspector in the regular average setting. The second case is that of a member of the Administrative and Logistics Executive (CALOG) at level A who, at his or her request, obtains employment in a class below the class he or she occupies. In this case, the person concerned obtains the baraemic scale of the class which he obtains by mobility with maintenance of seniority. The third case is the member of the administrative and logistical cadre who holds a specific rank, e.g. translator, accountant, assistant, and who obtains, at his request, a job of a common rank. I would remind you that all these changes in rank and therefore in scale are made only in the event of mobility, therefore at the request and with full knowledge of the cause of the person concerned, via the function profile, and on a voluntary basis. I cannot provide you with the exact number of personnel, police or CALOG, who, as a result of mobility, have moved to the regular average frame, for police officers, or to a common rank, for CALOGs. Some have been informed beforehand, some have not. The number of complaints is also unknown to me. It seems to me useful to recall that in the publications of jobs by mobility, the exact grade is always well indicated as well as the conditions of access to employment. In order to avoid disappointments after obtaining a job with another baremic scale, and although the applicant is supposed to know the consequences of his voluntary mobility to such a job, I will ask the federal police and police areas to communicate this consequence of mobility to staff members who might be in this case, before they accept the job in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u52	Mr President, Minister, during the reform of the public fire services and their organisation in emergency areas, the question of the working time of professional and voluntary firefighters in compliance with European directives arose within the framework of the law of 1 April 2014. This text provides for the transposition of the Working Time Directive into Belgian law as regards professional firefighters, and even envisages a transitional period for the specific case of firefighters who combine professional and voluntary functions in the same rescue zone. In parliamentary debates, my group had raised the case of firefighters combining professional and voluntary activities in different relief areas. It was then announced that this case would be dealt with by order. Unfortunately, it appears that the announced order has never been issued, so that many firefighters in the field are subject to different regimes depending on the area in which they perform their professional or voluntary duties. This applies in particular to the calculation of working time, breaks and on-call time. This is not without implications, both for the proper functioning of the service and for simple questions of respect for the rights of these men who put their lives at risk to protect their fellow citizens. This unfortunate situation requires clarification. Minister, what regulatory measures do they regulate the calculation of the working time of firefighters with a professional and voluntary function in different emergency areas? If we are, as it would seem, in a situation of legal vacuum, do you intend to fill it by taking the royal decree announced by your predecessor? According to what calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u53	Mr Frédéric, the reading of articles 174 to 180 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of the operational personnel of the rescue zones should allow you to be reassured. In fact, these provisions lay down the rules on working time and periods of rest and break for volunteer firefighters. As regards the maximum duration of service, for example, it may not exceed 24 hours per week on average over a reference period of 12 months. The recall service, that is, the periods during which the volunteer firefighter declares himself or herself available for an intervention without having to be at the barracks, is not included in the service time. The practical arrangements for this recall service shall be laid down by each rescue zone in a rules of procedure. To answer your question more precisely, the King has not established any different rules depending on whether or not the volunteer firefighter is engaged in a professional activity or on the nature of that professional activity. In other words, a person may provide as a volunteer firefighter an average of 24 hours per week, whether he or she is a job seeker or a self-employed or salaried worker, or whether he or she is a professional firefighter in another rescue zone for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic358x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will take note of the articles concerned in order to confront them with the reality, because what comes to me from the ground does not exactly correspond to the answer you provide to me.
