ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the press has looked at the management of users' private data by the Brussels public transport operator STIB. It would retain magnetic card validation data for six months to meet the needs of after-sales services, as well as to combat fraud. In addition, such data would be kept in an unlimited manner - hence after the end of a semester - in an encrypted manner in order to avoid identification of persons and in the name of statistical objectives. When the system was put in place, the then minister had given this information, stating that all procedures had been put in place in accordance with privacy laws. While it is not my intention to question the value of data processing, particularly in so far as it can be used to improve the network's supply, but also to facilitate the tasks of law enforcement, I am nevertheless surprised by the information disseminated in the media. Indeed, citizens are not sufficiently informed of the framework applied since the STIB website provides relatively general information on privacy and does not mention any delays in the retention of sources. In addition, when the journalist responsible for the investigation requested to be able to obtain the data relating to him, as permitted by law, he was provided with a list of partial information on an eight-month scale, not including, for example, the lines taken or the use of the metro gates. However, this information is made available to the judicial authorities. I know, of course, that you are not responsible for STIB. However, as Secretary of State for Privacy, I would like to know if you have been informed of these revelations in the press. If so, what do you think of this situation with respect to the legal prescriptions? Have you decided to contact the Brussels Minister of Transport to make him aware of this situation in order to improve STIB's communication with its users and to ensure better compliance with the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u2	Mr President, Mr Calomne, first of all, I would like to point out that I cannot comment on these facts which you are reporting to me because, on the one hand, STIB is not within my competence, as you have said, and, on the other hand, the separation of powers does not allow me to interpret the law or to judge how STIB respects it. However, the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy obviously applies to the processing of data by STIB users. On March 17, 2010, the Privacy Commission issued an opinion on this subject detailing the basic principles to be followed in the context of tele-banking. In this opinion, the Privacy Commission distinguishes between four processing purposes: transport document management, fraud management, technical management and statistical management. These four purposes each require different data and storage times. I therefore invite you, Mr Calomne, to address you directly to the Privacy Commission, which, as you know, is attached to the House, so that it can let you know whether it considers that STIB complies with the opinion that has already been given. More generally, as part of my policy, I am focusing on the principle of transparency. This principle is important for several reasons: the digitisation of our society, but also the interdependence between the collection of personal data and the services that depend on them. In this regard, the citizen must know what data concerning him or her are being processed and how they are being used. Transparency is naturally linked to citizen ownership. As I recently announced in Parliament during the presentation of my policy note for 2016, I pay particular attention to the fact that public authority and administrative services are able to report to citizens on the use of their data. This includes correct and clear information about citizens. If the Privacy Commission finds that there are problems with respect to STIB's compliance with legal privacy principles, I will of course take the necessary contacts and possible action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for these points of answer, particularly those relating to your policy on this matter. I will follow your suggestion and contact the Privacy Commission. I'll come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 15 December 2015, as part of the negotiations on the data protection package presented by the European Commission, an agreement was reached at European level on the minimum age necessary to register on social networks, such as Facebook or Snapchat, without parental consent. While the original proposed age was 13 years, as is the case, for example, in the United States, the decision finally reached the 16-year threshold. However, according to the agreement, Member States wishing to do so may derogate from this framework with a minimum limit of 13 years. Although social networks are now exceptional tools for exchange, they can also pose risks for younger people: addictions, bad encounters, privacy violations, etc. It is not the unfortunate examples that are lacking. In our view, it therefore seems important to limit the negative impacts and thus to protect the most vulnerable audiences. In this respect, Mr Minister, in view of this Europe agreement and the room for manoeuvre left to the Member States, I would like to know whether the government has already ruled on the minimum age for access without parental consent which will be retained for our country. Could you substantiate your answer by specifying, if any, the reasons for your choice? Although compliance with such legislation is difficult to control, what additional measures do you intend to take to ensure that this access restriction is respected as widely as possible? Finally, is the development of tools to prevent the drifts of social networks for younger people and parents an option? If so, what forms could these tools take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u5	Mr Minister, at the end of December 2015, in their draft directive to protect Internet users, the European Commission, the Council of Europe and the European Parliament added an article that aims to restrict access to online services, including social networks, for those under 16 years of age. This would be subject to explicit parental authorization. The final text was announced for 2016. The recent death of little Madison, harassed on social networks, reopens, in my view, the debate on social networks and deserves an interest in the evolution of this European project. On the one hand, applying this directive might reduce the exposure of young people to online harassment, paedophilia and radicalisation. On the other hand, this choice could be counterproductive and counter-educative. Indeed, it should not be forgotten that the Internet plays a fundamental role in education and information, which are achievements to which adolescents are entitled, and is an area of socialisation, especially for the younger ones. Many teenagers use social networks to express their opinions or to express a certain ill-being that would go completely unnoticed if it were not expressed in writing. In addition, many associations, especially against suicide, work through social networks. Moreover, since the Internet is not 100% controllable, a drastic limitation would push and encourage these teenagers to invent other ways of accessing it, such as creating false accounts. What is the status of this European project? Are we going to accept this directive? What are the parties involved in this project? Is it also open to parenting organizations, educators and young people themselves? In technical terms, would this directive really be applicable? How can this legislation be enforced in practice? What steps would be taken to verify age? What would the legislation provide for for young people already registered? Should they delete their account? What is Belgium's position on this bill? Is she participating in the debates? If so, what position does it stand for? Finally, can you give us more information on what is provided for in federal legislation on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u6	Colleagues, the growing importance of the role of social media in everyday life can hardly be denied or underestimated. In this respect, Belgium has already repeatedly stressed in various national and international forums the importance of supporting innovation in compliance with legal privacy requirements, including, in particular, the consent of the persons concerned. Today we have an obligation to reflect on the sharing of our personal data. This division must be the result of a decision. Minors are indeed fervent users of social media. They also have a special legal status. This is reflected in the European Data Protection Regulation. For your information, this regulation was agreed in December 2015. It is expected to be adopted soon and will enter into force in 2018. Article 8 of this Regulation provides that the processing of personal data of children under the age of 16 is legal only to the extent that the parents have consented to it. However, it provides for an exception since Member States may lower the age up to 13 years. I want to make an important point. The consent relates to the processing of personal data of minors, but not to the content of the data. More clearly, parents must give permission to a company to use the data of their minor children. In the eyes of the regulations, they must not give their child permission for what they publish on social media. This issue goes beyond the law; it is a matter of parents' educational choice and their relationship of trust with their child. I would add that this consent provision does not derogate from contractual law. In order to enter into a contract, one must, in principle, have reached the age of 18. For the time being, the government has not yet made a decision on the age at which the consent threshold should be set. On this issue, I would like to consult the Communities in charge of Youth and the Commission on the Protection of Privacy. Prevention in this area is the responsibility of the Communities. Awareness-raising campaigns can play an important role. I am thinking in particular of the work of the Vlaams Kenniscentrum voor Mediawijsheid, under the competence of Mr Sven Gatz, but also of the campaign "Denk na voor je iets online zet", "Think before posting", launched by the Flemish Minister of Education, Mrs Crevits, on online privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I have taken note of the information you have just given us. I will wait until you have had time to carry out these consultations and consultations before returning to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It's a huge project. I am reassured that your approach to this problem is not at all restrictive. If we want to regulate too much, we could touch on privacy, but also on the ability of these young people to express themselves on the Internet, even though it is important that they can do so. You know, like me, that the forbidden fruit is often the most coveted fruit of young people. They are still several thousand pre-teens (under 13 years of age) to pass between the meshes of the net to express themselves on social networks. I join you in the sense that our personal responsibility is to teach young people an ethical and thoughtful use of these tools. We will be waiting to be able to discuss in Parliament how we can apply this regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u9	Question No 8568 by Mr Gilles Foret is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, this is a question that I had addressed to the Minister of Justice who has re-directed it to you. Some media do not hesitate to use personal photos published on Facebook-type social media to illustrate press articles. This legitimately raises questions of respect for the right to image and respect for privacy, especially when these articles relate to dramatic events such as a death, or when the photos reveal, alongside the person concerned, other persons, such as children or a spouse, even if they are blurred as in the example I have attached to my question. There is a need to protect our growing numbers of citizens on social networks from the misuse of personal images or, at the very least, to better inform them about the rule of law in this field. Mr Secretary of State, what are the rules of law governing the use by the media of personal images, for example taken from a social network such as Facebook, which these media do not have rights or permission to use? What remedies are available to citizens who consider themselves to be adversely affected by such use? Is there no need to adapt existing legislation and information for citizens in the face of the development of social networks? What initiatives have been taken or will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u11	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, you are asking me about the rules governing the use by the media of personal images taken from social networks. First of all, I would like to point out that a personal image, a photo, constitutes a personal data within the meaning of the "privacy" law. The general principles of the "privacy" law therefore apply. The photo must be treated fairly and lawfully. The photo can only be reused if the interest of the journalist prevails over the interest of the person concerned. The photo must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the journalistic purposes for which it is obtained. The photo can only be treated if the treatment is necessary for the fulfilment of the journalist's legitimate interest. On the other hand, the law provides that the journalist may use sensitive data relating to the data subject if the data relate to data made public by the data subject or if they are related to the public nature of the fact in which he or she is involved. There is therefore a question of the balance to be struck between respect for privacy and freedom of the press. It would be difficult, if not dangerous, to establish, in a law, a definitive boundary between these two elements. Each case is different. The Privacy Commission has worked on this issue and has published a thematic dossier on its website on the right to image. The Commission shall give elements of analysis for those who, in practice, must ensure a balance between these two elements. It is important for the persons concerned to ensure remedies. Non-compliance with the principles I have recalled is criminally punishable under section 39 of the Privacy Act. Therefore, a person who considers himself to be aggrieved has the right to file a complaint with the Privacy Commission. This leads me to conclude that the legislative framework is clear and that it is not appropriate at this time to amend the law. Moreover, it should, in the short term, be replaced by a European data protection regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this explanation, which seems clear to me. The legislative framework is specific. He's probably not well known. In the case of my question, I have the impression that the rules have not been complied with. However, it is the responsibility of the family concerned, if any, to lodge a complaint. As I said, I fear that these principles are not well known to citizens and the media. I can only encourage you, together with the Privacy Commission, to take proactive steps to inform citizens about this. I see too often in some newspapers images diverted from their original use, published without a request for permission. That seems to me to go beyond the rules you just set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u13	Since Mrs Nele Lijnen was absent, pursuant to Article 127, 10°, her question No 9161 lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u14	Mme Lines va arriver.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u15	In that case, we wait for him for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u16	The Secretary of State, several companies, including Google and Facebook, would use tracking, which would allow these companies to collect and store all the digital private data of an internet user when it loads an interpage containing a widget of the company, such as the like button of Facebook or the search function of Google or Yahoo. To what extent are practices such as tracking as a criminal offence included in the Belgian Codes? What steps are you taking in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u17	Mr Lijnen, I am very pleased that you are asking this question because it is an important matter. Tracking through plug-ins is very popular. When someone visits a particular website or reads an article and then shares it through a social network site, this automatically means a significant increase in the number of visitors. As regards tracking by Facebook, the Centre for IT & IP Law of KU Leuven and iMinds have conducted an investigation on this matter at the request of the Privacy Commission. The results of that study were very revealing. Tracking is a form of data processing and is therefore subject to the Belgian Privacy Act. Articles 37 to 43 of that law provide for criminal sanctions for any breach of the privacy law. Any person who considers that the regulations have not been complied with can therefore lodge a complaint with the Privacy Commission or even with the court. In order to return to Facebook's practices, Article 5 of the Privacy Act provides that personal data may only be processed when the data subject has given its unambiguous consent. The study of KU Leuven and iMinds has shown that Facebook could collect personal data from network users without a Facebook account on the basis of so-called DATA cookies, just because they had pressed an I-like button. So that did not happen with their knowledge, let alone with their consent. The Privacy Commission then went to the court of first instance and held in interim proceedings that that practice was contrary to the privacy law. Facebook is therefore no longer allowed to trace the surf habits of Belgian internet users. The substantive proceedings were instituted at the end of January 2016 before the Court of First Instance in Brussels. Of course, we will follow the matter very closely and closely. However, I do not want to anticipate the final conclusion of the proceedings against Facebook. During my contacts with the IT companies, my message is in any case that the judge considered that the Belgian privacy law applies to the social networking sites, which includes specific obligations, which I also expect to be complied with. At the same time, I prefer a European coordinated approach towards multinationals such as Google, Facebook and WhatsApp that offer their services in our country. Ever since I became Secretary of State, I've asked for a privacy watchdog to coordinate business. This was not included in the Regulation, but there is a very close cooperation within the Working Group Article 29 on the protection of personal data of the privacy authorities of each Member State, setting up a coordination working group on Facebook. The Netherlands is the forerunner of this and will, together with Belgium, Germany and in particular the Land of Hamburg, Spain and France, consider how we can further coordinate research activities against Facebook. Mrs Lijnen, I just wanted to point out that such a European approach pays off. As a precedent, I can refer to all similar and coordinated adjustments or research actions with regard to Google. Google has decided to adapt to the privacy laws of different countries. That's the only good way to proceed. As a small country, we can take the lead, and we do so together with a number of other countries, but it will only pay if we in Europe together send a very clear signal to these big Internet giants that they too must comply with the laws, regardless of their size.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic341x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I believe that it is important to take the lead in this matter as a country, because Europe is often a slow vehicle too. I believe that we must be able to act quickly, and I believe that you are also taking care of this at European level. It also seems very important to me that people be prepared for dealing with their own privacy. I do not think that many users are sufficiently aware at the moment. I believe that we must protect the users in this respect. This seems to me to be your role, too. I am therefore looking forward to the initiatives you will take in the future in this area.
