ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u1	Colleagues, let's start with the questions. Mr Blanchart is not present for his question No. 8082.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question is slightly dated, because at the last sitting we discussed Diplomatic Days, as you yourself said. I tabled my question following the execution of Nimr al-Nimr in Saudi Arabia. I have begun to observe that the tension between the Sunni Arabs and Shia Iranians is rapidly rising after the execution of 48 death sentences, including Nimr al-Nimr, in Saudi Arabia. There have been riots and arsons at the Saudi embassy in Tehran. Saudi Arabia has ended air traffic to Iran, suspended commercial relations and banned its inhabitants from travelling to Iran. Then Bahrain, Kuwait, Djibouti and Sudan broke off diplomatic relations with Iran. Oman has once again condemned the breaking of diplomatic ties. On 5 January Iran showed images of a secret underground missile base, in which the new Emad missile is stored. The Emad rocket has a range of 1 700 kilometers and can thus certainly hit Israel and actually all the American bases in the region. All Saudi oil installations are also within reach. I have six questions for you, Minister. Firstly, have the Iranian authorities allowed or tried to prevent the destruction of Saudi Arabia's diplomatic posts? Secondly, does Saudi Arabia abuse the attacks to further increase tension in the region? What's your analysis? Thirdly, sheikh Nimr al-Nimr was arrested in 2012 and sentenced to death in 2014. However, he was not executed until 2016. The late King Abdullah never executed the sentence. Is that an indication that Saudi Arabia has a harder line under King Salman than King Abdullah? How will this evolution affect the Belgian line towards Saudi Arabia? Fourthly, do you think there is a need to review our diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia? What elements are you putting on the table? Fifthly, what is the impact on the peace negotiations for Syria and Yemen? What action is the European Union currently taking to prevent these peace negotiations from being imploded by the conflict between Iran and Saudi Arabia? Finally, I would like to have an overview of the extent to which you have responded to the questions put by the Chamber, as expressed and adopted in Resolution No. 54K 1154 on human rights in Saudi Arabia and the situation of Raif Badawi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u3	Madam President, Minister, Saudi Arabia is not the first subject of discussion here, and I suspect that it will not be the last time. It has been demonstrated once again how precarious the situation in the Middle East is. Moreover, we are in a very difficult situation. On the one hand, the human rights violations that are taking place in Saudi Arabia are undisputed and far-reaching, and on the other hand, the importance of that country for the stability or instability of the region is very great. It is also about a geopolitical struggle between Saudi Arabia and Iran, between the Sunni and Shiite worlds, and also between the spheres of influence of both. You know the details. They've just been put together by the colleague. That data also shows that Saudi Arabia is absolutely not isolated in that Sunni world. A Sunni front has been created, as it were, which also shows how careful one should deal with this situation. Nor should we create the impression that action by the West or by the world community would create tensions by creating the impression that some anti-Sunnitic front would be created. In short, it is difficult to maneuver in this matter. I am a little more modest than my colleague, because I would just like to ask you four questions. What contacts have you had with your international counterparts about the escalating situation on the ground? What did you get out of that? Secondly, what are the consequences of this escalation on the international coalition, or what should be done about it, against IS? After all, the two major opponents, Iran and Saudi Arabia, are also formally allies in the fight against ISIS, to show just how bizarre the situation is. Can we also hear your views on the Yemeni conflict? What is the further evolution? What is the impact on the entire region? Finally, what initiatives can you take to de-escalate the conflict, which can have a global impact when things get completely out of hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u4	Mr Minister, my questions have also been formulated in the context of the events outlined by the two fellow Members. I have only four questions, variations on the questions raised by my fellow Members. Firstly, Minister, how do you assess the executions carried out by Saudi Arabia, including the chairman of the UN Human Rights Council? Secondly, how do you assess Iran's attitude? Thirdly, Iran and Saudi Arabia are important regional players. How do you estimate the effect of the current increasing tension between the two countries on the region? I am thinking in particular of the possibility of working out a solution to the situation in Syria, specifically in view of the negotiations which should have started on 25 January, but which have been postponed somewhat. I also refer to the conflict in Yemen, in which both countries play a key role. Finally, Minister, what steps do you intend to take in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u5	Thank you, Mr Claerhout. The other Members with questions are not present. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u6	Madam President, I have precise answers to the various questions. I will reply in the two languages, including questions from absent colleagues. First of all, I would like to comment on the events of the beginning of this year. Belgium, of course, regrets the implementation of 47 death sentences and the related violations of human rights. As you know, the abolition of the death penalty remains a priority for both the European Union and Belgium and there are EU guidelines on the death penalty. In line with these guidelines, various actions are being undertaken by Belgium and the EU, both bilaterally and multilaterally, including démarches and condemnations of the facts. I have already publicly expressed my concern about the impact of these executions, in particular that of Sheikh al-Nimr on the regional situation. The Ambassador of Saudi Arabia in Brussels was called upon, at my request, to go to the Department of Foreign Affairs to receive the same message by official means. The meeting also provided an opportunity to address the issue of human rights in general as well as some individual cases of concern to us. With regard to blogger Raif Badawi and the House resolution, I refer you to the answers I gave in plenary. But I confirm to you that we have again intervened on this subject. I come to the Presidency of the Saudi Ambassador of the Consultative Group of the Human Rights Council. Although I regret the Saudi position and actions on the death penalty, as I have already stated, the Saudi Ambassador has been Chairman of the Consultative Group of the Human Rights Council since May 2015. The members of the consultative group are also put forward by the various regional groups. As a general rule, these are permanent representatives, who are, however, deemed to be in their personal capacity. Our country had no say in this appointment. Our fear, like that of the international community, is that the growing tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran will undermine international efforts to find negotiated political solutions to the conflicts, particularly in Syria and Yemen. We believe that collaboration between Iran and Saudi Arabia is essential to effectively fight against Daesh and to get out of the crisis in Syria, Yemen and Iraq. As far as Syria is concerned, like you, I have taken note of the fact that the Iranian and Saudi authorities have expressed their willingness to continue the process begun in the context of the meetings initiated by the United Nations. I will follow this issue closely. The withdrawal of the cease-fire by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia in Yemen and Iran's accusation of the shelling of its embassy in Sanaa by the coalition forces is, unfortunately, already an example of the negative spiral in which the region could end up if Saudi Arabia and Iran fail to improve their relations. I cannot move forward on the exact circumstances that led to the attack on the Saudi embassy in Tehran – and indeed on what happened in Yemen with the Iranian embassy – but I obviously strongly condemn this attack, as the Security Council also did. He called on all parties to comply with the obligations under the Vienna Convention, in particular with regard to the host State's obligation to ensure the safety of diplomatic personnel and premises. In my bilateral contacts, but also multilaterally, I will continue to advocate cooperation, dialogue and political dialogue between all the regional partners, as they are and will continue to be necessary to resolve the regional crisis. We have been trying for a few months to go to a real new round of negotiations on Syria, Iraq and Libya. In the last few weeks it was possible to get all the important partners around the table in Vienna at the end. Now we are trying to start in Geneva with such a negotiation process around Syria. It is necessary to have not only the United States, Europe and Russia around the table, but also the regional powers, namely Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran. Thanks to a truly important role of Europe in the discussions with Iran on nuclear energy, it is now possible for the European Union to have more influence in the region, perhaps also for such a new negotiation process. It'll be very difficult. We must ask Saudi Arabia to put pressure on some opposition groups. It is Saudi Arabia's job to do that in Syria, so that we can have different opposition groups at the table. It's not easy. We should, for example, also ask Russia and Iran to exert the same pressure on the Bashar al-Assad regime, to move in the same direction and to create a real opening for a transition process. I repeat. We have condemned not only the death penalty but also other violations of human rights. We also asked for a de-escalation. It is not obvious, for example in Yemen, but we are still trying to get proper cooperation from Iran and Saudi Arabia on many different dossiers. We now have a real opportunity to make progress, thanks to the presence of everyone around the table. You have seen it in the last few days and hours: it remains very difficult. It was normally planned to start last Monday, there was a delay until Friday and I suspect we will see other events. We will always exert the same pressure on all partners at bilateral level, and even more so through the European Union. A political solution is the only way for Syria, Iraq or Libya. It is necessary to be a member of a military coalition, it is necessary to do more on a humanitarian level, but the only way is a political solution. Unfortunately, there are many exciting moments between the different partners, but it is possible to start a real negotiation process, we now have an opportunity. We will support that opportunity. I hope that in the next few days, weeks or months it will be possible to make progress towards a real transition in Syria, a real, inclusive government in Iraq and at least a real government in Libya. In addition to Syria and Iraq, we now have a lot of problems in Libya. It is also a task to bring about a positive evolution for that country, thanks to the possibility of having all the partners around the table again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u7	Minister, allow me to return to my question, which I have tabled. In what way will a number of evolutions affect the Belgian attitude towards Saudi Arabia? You didn't actually answer that. May I conclude from this that our attitude towards Saudi Arabia will not change? Will she remain the same as in the past few months and years? I would like to make that clear. A number of party chairmen, even majority parties, have made statements in recent weeks and months when the debate on Saudi Arabia started in our country. It was then, for example, about arms trafficking. That is a regional competence. In addition, there are economic relations with the country, but it can also be perfect about purely federal matters. I am thinking of royal visits to Saudi Arabia, federal trade missions and so on. Can't we take a different attitude in that? I do not need to remind you, because you yourself have listed a number of things. We all know the human rights violations in the country. They also export wahabism. Saudi Arabia is a source of instability, it finances international terror. When we talk about Syria, we talk about Al-Sham or al-Nusra via a very direct line. This must force us to change our attitude towards Saudi Arabia. You have not given any indication that you are indeed planning to do so. I would ask you to reconsider that. One of my questions was to what extent you responded to Parliament's question in the resolution on Raif Badawi. I refer, for example, to paragraph 11 in the resolution. We have asked the government with Parliament to make a thorough reflection on Belgian diplomatic, military, economic, commercial and energy-related relations with Saudi Arabia. From the answers you always give to Parliament, I cannot infer that you have had that in-depth reflection. I will put a written question so that you can convince me of the opposite, that you did have that reflection. I would ask for a certain note, a certain report of that reflection, which you should nevertheless carry out if you take Parliament's question seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u8	I can always repeat the same answers. As I said, I have already replied in this context in plenary. You can come back every week with the same question. Allow me to mention a few more points. Firstly, on the federal level, I said that we will continue our diplomatic relations in a real dialogue with Saudi Arabia. In the first place, you are asking us to do something about human rights. How is that possible without a direct contact? Well, both myself and my staff have had direct contact with my colleague and staff from Saudi Arabia, for example in connection with the very difficult situation of Raif Badawi. So far it has been successful, because part of the sentence has not been executed, although he is still in prison. That success can only be achieved by such actions, day after day. So I will not give the same answer every week in that regard. Secondly, on an international level, it is very useful, as I said, to have Saudi Arabia around the table, for example in the talks on Syria. You could say that it is not important, or that we can exert more pressure in another direction. However, a solution for Syria without the presence of Saudi Arabia is impossible, for example because in that case we cannot get some opposition groups around the table. You could question its importance, but I think that Saudi Arabia's presence is really important. That's why I'm going to continue with the M.O. Thirdly, with regard to economic relations, there are no intentions to organise new royal missions or foreign trade missions to Saudi Arabia. Nor have we been asked to do so. I have written a letter to the three Prime Ministers, who are responsible for a number of foreign trade issues, especially the arms trade. I have also received answers to this letter, which I have already mentioned in Parliament and which I shall now repeat. The Prime Minister of Flanders wrote to me to inform me that he has asked FIT to investigate possible problems with an investment in Antwerp. I believe that, like you, I will wait for FIT's response to the Prime Minister, after which action can or cannot be taken by Flanders. On the Walloon side, I received a response from the Prime Minister that he would continue to supply arms. There may be some further discussions on this. From Brussels I have perhaps received a new element from Minister Vanhengel, who is proposing to hold a discussion on this at the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on Foreign Affairs, which I will do. Finally, like the Minister of the Interior, I have already spoken about the question of Saudi Arabia's interference or of wahabists in a specific cultural centre. The Grand Mosque of Brussels is a cultural centre. It's not just about Saudi Arabia. Other countries such as Morocco and Senegal are also at the table. The Home Secretary asked for an investigation into State Security. I can't say anything more about that. We wait now. Then perhaps there will be a response or an initiative by the Minister of the Interior regarding the mosque. I call for an internal training of imams in Belgium, with imams from the local communities and in cooperation with the Communities responsible for education. You can ask for my position on Saudi Arabia every week. I've already given that and I'm confirming it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u9	Minister, I am not in favour of stopping the dialogue. Nor do I plead for Saudi Arabia to be removed from the Mistura table. We have not said that at any time. We have said that the balance in our foreign policy and our diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia needs to be shifted a bit. You know this is our question. You also know that that question lives. Why? For reasons of human rights violations, of course, but also because I believe that business as usual with Saudi Arabia is no longer in our own interests, not in our security interests and not in the interests of stability in the Middle East. So we have to make an adjustment. You mentioned a number of elements, but of course they still have to be implemented. It remains awaiting the re-examination that we are asking for, but I would like to conclude from your reply that you are doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I am pleased that you are using your, albeit limited, options to prosecute human rights violations. It is perhaps regrettable that Saudi human rights are not the subject of a direct decision by this body, because otherwise we would speak another language, but we know the limitations that exist there. You are very aware of the great legality of international politics, that there must be a balance between power and principles. If one does not link one to the other, then one is a doggie with little attention. There's a lot of confusion, a lot of things getting mixed up. The local situation is then linked to possible investments here or to wahabism, which indeed has too much influence here. However, these discussions cannot and must not be thrown into a single pot. We fully support you, whether we like it or not, in the interest that you attach to Saudi Arabia for finding a diplomatic and negotiated solution, and for the dialogue that is needed to get the peace we all want in the Middle East. In that dialogue, Saudi Arabia is, of course, an essential partner, whether we like it or not. If we forget that, we are promoting instability rather than stability. The nuclear agreement with Iran offers new opportunities. We can talk to that country in a different way than until recently. I hope that these opportunities also offer new openings. I hope that we can move forward with very small steps, that is all it will be. Saudi Arabia's theoretical potential is very great. I believe Saudi Arabia could be a game changer in the Middle East. It is very important that we be very careful to ensure that development goes in the right direction. In that sense, I welcome the answer you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u11	The next item on the agenda is Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht (H-I) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u12	Minister, the European Union has imposed sanctions on Russia in connection with the annexation of Crimea. These sanctions were linked to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. It was claimed that they would have been implemented by 31 December 2015, which is not the case. In this light, the sanctions have been extended. We are also still receiving disturbing reports from the region. I therefore have the following questions for you. What is the state of play on the implementation of the Minsk agreements? How is the EU-Russia dialogue going and between NATO and Russia? How do you estimate the further development of relations with Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u13	Relations between the European Union and Russia are difficult because we are dealing with a context of sanctions and counter-sanctions. Most of the modalities for dialogue and cooperation have been suspended. I remain strongly in favour of maintaining dialogue with Russia, but I see no reason to change the EU's sanctions policy now. We are waiting for a real implementation of the Minsk agreements in order to see a possible evolution. So far we have seen a number of positive elements, such as the ceasefire, but there are still many problems in Eastern Ukraine. The same situation still prevails in Crimea, but I remain open to dialogue with Russia. I think it is useful to do so bilaterally, including for the European Union. So far, however, it is a very difficult situation, which makes implementation of the Minsk agreements difficult. NATO has suspended its practical cooperation with Russia and the political dialogue has been frozen in practice. In order to ensure the credibility of its deterrent, NATO has had to adapt and has taken a number of measures under the heading "reinsurance'. I continue to advocate military confidence-building measures with Russia to reduce the risk of accidents. At various meetings within NATO, I advocated the establishment of contacts between the military. We don't want any incidents. For example, we had some F-16 picnics in the Baltic states. We have a great interest in having good contact with the Russian military in order to prevent any real incidents. I call for strategic patience and dialogue with Russia. We must maintain the balance between the three pillars of Western policy: dialogue, strong action through sanctions and support for Ukraine. Relations between the Western world and Russia will remain difficult until the Minsk agreements are fully implemented. The annexation of Crimea has fundamentally affected our security system. We must strive for a new temporary balance that will give us additional security guarantees and give a new impetus to the project from a free trade area from Lisbon to Vladivostok. Russia has been playing a new role in Syria for some time. Perhaps we owe the positive evolution of the political negotiations to its military action. That may sound strange in the context of our views on Russia. It is useful not only to have Saudi Arabia on board to exert pressure on the opposition in Syria, but also to exert pressure on the Syrian regime through Russia and Iran. Dialogue with Russia is important in various dossiers, not just for the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria. We also benefit from bilateral contacts in human rights, climate change, energy and other dossiers. Despite the fact that the situation in eastern Ukraine is very difficult at the moment. Finally, it is not only with Russia that we need to maintain dialogue, including with Ukraine. At our last meeting of the Foreign Ministers at European level, we had a direct contact with our Ukrainian colleague. They must continue to reform. I always advocate new reforms in the fight against corruption, such as the installation of a truly independent judicial order, as well as decentralisation in Ukraine. Without a genuine decentralisation process in Ukraine, it is impossible to have a positive evolution in the east of the country. I said this last year during our presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. However, we are moving in the same direction at European level and in all bilateral contacts. So it remains very difficult, but there are some positive signs, such as the cooperation with Russia around Iran, where they wanted to get on board to reach an agreement on nuclear energy. It was possible to have Russia on board in Paris before COP 21. It was perhaps also possible in the last week to get Russia's support for political negotiations on Syria. However, as far as Ukraine is concerned, it remains very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u14	Minister, your answer does indeed make it clear to me what your general view is on this matter. You also place this very strongly within the European framework. I have heard you say a number of times that dialogue must remain open, but that it is difficult. You've repeated that several times. We must continue to pay attention to this dossier. However, I do not know from your answer what the relationship between Belgium and Russia is now. To what extent is it invested to keep this dialogue effectively open and sound?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u15	We continue to maintain many bilateral contacts with Russia. Last year I had many contacts through my role in the Council of Europe, but also bilaterally with my colleague Sergei Lavrov. There were also contacts through our embassy, our diplomats. There are also contacts in connection with foreign trade, with the Regions. There are missions, there are many possible activities. It is true that there are sanctions, but there are also other possibilities than in the areas where sanctions are imposed. It may also be possible to go further through the Commission, at European level. So we are trying to stay in dialogue, but with proper implementation of the sanctions that have been imposed at international level. We are moving forward, not only with a theoretical approach; we also have concrete contacts, for example with companies asking us if it is possible to reach an agreement, to make progress. We are trying to give a correct answer, within the framework of sanctions. It is impossible to go against sanctions, but it is perfectly possible to work with Russia in many areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the peace talks in Geneva on Syria should normally have taken place on 25 January, beginning this week. The talks were held because there was disagreement about the Syrian opposition delegation. These talks are crucial to bring the conflict in Syria to a successful conclusion by answering questions about the establishment of a transition period, the revision of the Constitution and the organisation of parliamentary and presidential elections. Following such an agreement, the way would be facilitated to fight more effectively IS, the al-Nusra Front and other terrorist groups in Syria. After Russia proposed to send a joint delegation of representatives of the Syrian opposition to Geneva, Russia returned to this decision by also requesting a delegation from a Russian-minded Syrian opposition delegation. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the organisation of these Geneva III talks? Which delegation will be sent from the Syrian opposition? Are the Syrian Kurds also involved in these talks? How do you estimate the impact if these conversations were not to take place or would be very difficult?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u17	Madam President, I will try to say something in all transparency, but that is not so easy. I have already mentioned some elements in response to previous questions. According to the latest information, the talks should start on January 29th. The primary objective is to hold talks between the opposition and the Assad regime in the form of proximity talks in order to reach, within six months, a transition government capable of preparing a new Constitution and new elections. That is the objective of the possible talks between the opposition and the Assad regime. The list of invited guests has not been published by Mr de Mistura, but I have full confidence in his abilities and Belgium fully supports him in his mission. The opposition has meanwhile constituted its delegation, but there remains discussion, including with Russia and Turkey, about the presence of the Kurds, in particular the PYD Group and certain members of the internal Syrian opposition. In any case, a number of Kurdish groups are represented. During my conversation with the head of the High Negotiations Committee of the Syrian opposition, former Prime Minister Riad Farid Hijab, earlier this month, I raised the representative cooperation of the opposition delegation. I also stressed that it is important that the talks start and that alternative solutions are possible to involve all parties in the talks. For example, I would remind you that it is possible to negotiate between two groups in two different rooms, the opposition in one room and the regime in the other. However, Russia wants opposition members to be present in the negotiations, whose opposition believes they are closer to the regime. I then proposed to work with three halls, one for the regime, one for the real opposition, and one for other people who are not genuine opposition according to the opposition but who are close to the regime. Anyway, this might be a Belgian solution. The most important thing is to start negotiations. The importance of political dialogue is to set in motion a process to find a political solution to the conflict in Syria. For the first time since the beginning of the conflict, the political process, as I said in my reply to a previous question, enjoys the support of all the parties involved, including Iran, Russia and the other regional players, such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Failure would be a huge setback for a political solution, and would only prolong the conflict in Syria, which is causing so much humanitarian suffering. In view of this process, I have also asked for pressure to be put on the Gulf countries, on a humanitarian level. It is perhaps useful that we should ask the Gulf countries to receive refugees. This is still a delicate matter and in recent weeks we have seen more and more refugees from the Gulf countries in Belgium. It is unusual that there is no refugee shelter in the Gulf countries. It is a real opportunity to start negotiations and through the European Union we will support that process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u18	Minister, one of my sub-questions had indeed to do with involving the Syrian Kurds in the talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u19	There are Kurds around the table, but there may also be discussions with different groups of Kurds, as with the other groups of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 8184 is converted into a written question. Mr Dallemagne is not here to put his combined questions Nos 8439 and 8923.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u21	Madam President, Minister, last December a referendum was held in record time. It was intended to ask Rwandans whether a constitutional amendment should be made, so as not to limit the number of terms of office for the President. The result was that 98.13 per cent of Rwandans spoke for a constitutional amendment allowing President Kagame to remain in power. When this result was published, you rightly expressed your comments and fears about the very short time it took for the government to hold this referendum and the absence of a democratic debate on this amendment to the Constitution. You rightly recalled the importance of respecting the principles of the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance. Ms. Mogherini also expressed her concerns, recalling that the sustainability of Rwanda's important socio-economic reconstruction work will depend on respect for political alternation and political pluralism. Minister, in his New Year's speech, President Kagame said he was ready to run for a third term. Presidential elections are scheduled for 2017. Will Belgium take part in the process of preparing for the presidential elections? Will a European election observation mission be organised? If so, will Belgium participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u22	Minister, as of May 2015, Belgium has publicly opposed a third mandate for Nkurunziza in Burundi. Rwanda and Kagame have not done so. There is also a division within the European Union about the desirability of a third term for Kagame. On 20 December 2015, you took note of the referendum in Rwanda. The referendum allowed Kagame to re-enlist for the 2017 presidential elections and potentially remain in power until 2034. On 1 January 2016, Kagame effectively announced that he would be a candidate for a third term of office as President. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, why did you not react strongly to this candidacy? Secondly, the current widespread approach of the international community has failed. Belgium has opted for silent diplomacy. Then there is a difference with the United States, which was much more open and, through a UN ambassador, stressed that President Kagame had the opportunity to set an example in a region where leaders would like to see themselves as indispensable. Does the candidacy of 1 January change anything for Belgian diplomacy? What action will you take on this candidacy? Do you still choose discreet diplomacy or are you considering a different approach? Thirdly, what will the Belgian objectives become in the context of the Rwandan elections? Fourthly, how do you estimate the impact of Kagame's decision on President Kabila and his ambition to obtain a third mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u23	Mr Minister, my questions relate to the same situation. What is your position on President Kagame's announcement to re-enlist for the presidential elections in 2017? What steps do you propose to take in relation to Rwanda and President Kagame? In Rwanda, Kagame's party Rwandan Patriotic Front has been in power since the end of the civil war in 1994. It dominates political and public life in the country, also through years of intimidation of the opposition and critical voices from civil society. Can you estimate the real support for the constitutional change, given the situation where there may be harassment of critical votes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u24	Madam Chair, I was surprised to see that my question was joined, but I would be delighted to hear a response from the minister on this matter. Minister, my question concerns more specifically a plan for Central Africa. Your colleague in charge of National Defence, Mr. Steven Vandeput, recently presented his strategic plan for Defence. During the presentation of this plan, the Minister presented, among other things, the regions that are or will be a priority in the coming years. Central Africa no longer appears to be one of the priority regions for our country, while you, for your part, have been announcing, for several months, the development of a comprehensive strategy for Central Africa. Minister, is this plan for Central Africa still on the agenda? If so, how do you explain that your Defence colleague does not seem to be taking this into account in his strategic plan, when at a previous meeting you announced that the strategy for Central Africa would be developed with your Defence and Development Cooperation colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the third term of office indeed arises both in Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC. The legal context is, of course, different from one country to another. In Burundi, a third term of office was excluded by the Arusha agreement. In the DRC, the Constitution excludes a third term of office and even prohibits the Constitution from tinkering that article. In Rwanda, the Constitution has so far prohibited a third term. However, it itself organized the modalities that could lead to its change. For the revision of the number of mandates, a referendum should be held, which underlines the importance of the provision. On 18 December 2015, a referendum was indeed held in Rwanda to revise the Constitution. One of the new constitutional provisions provides that the incumbent president may be elected for an additional term of office of seven years and possibly even thereafter for two additional five-year terms of office. According to official figures, more than 98% of voters approved the new provisions. In his New Year's speech, President Kagame announced that he would run for office in 2017. Like the European Union, I have reacted publicly to the conduct of the referendum by deploring the organisation of this vote in very short time frames, as well as the absence of genuinely free and open debates, in any case in the weeks before the referendum. With regard to the candidature of the President-in-Office, like most other international representatives, I am not accustomed to reacting to individual candidatures, except in the event of a major breach of the Constitutions and the agreements in force. Our position is that each country obviously has the right to revise its constitution, provided that its own rules and peace agreements are respected. It makes sense for Belgium to say such a thing. After all, we have been carrying out the sixth state reform for several months. Furthermore, as you rightly point out, the principles of democratic alternation and political pluralism remain essential issues for us. In the President's New Year's speech, he excluded a lifetime presidency, which was confirmed to me by my counterpart at our last meeting. It will therefore be important in the coming years to give guarantees to this alternation. In the shorter term, we will remain attentive to respect for political pluralism during the next election campaign. As part of the ongoing dialogue between Belgium and Rwanda, these topics will continue to be discussed in the coming months. These elements, as well as the strengthening of civil society, which must play a major role in Rwanda, remain of course important in the context of our development cooperation. For questions relating to development cooperation, please refer to Mr De Croo. In this context, we must also take into account the specific context in Rwanda, where freedom of expression is all too often curtailed, but where the President remains undisputedly popular, because of socio-economic achievements and the stability acquired. It is still too early to determine whether the conditions will be met for possible support for and observation of the upcoming elections. We will discuss these issues in coordination with our European partners. The objective must be clear: a free and open ballot. I come to our presence in Central Africa. The various problems facing this region in terms of democracy, human rights and governance must certainly not lead us to abandon it. After all, a strategic withdrawal would be particularly damaging to the local population and detrimental to our foreign policy. So our Central Africa policy remains an important cornerstone of this policy. Moreover, with regard to development cooperation, the government has decided to concentrate on areas such as the Great Lakes region, where the challenges are great. For the government, of course, this must be done in the most efficient way to achieve our objectives. In this spirit, further work is under way on the note on Central Africa policy, which I will present to you in the coming months. During the Diplomatic Days, we organized meetings among all the ambassadors concerned with the region to exchange them on this note concerning Central Africa. I also had contact with the Minister of Defence to point out to him that defence attention should also remain very strong for Central Africa. In the Defence Strategy, there is no intention of disengagement even though there is a major concern for other regions, including Africa. I insisted, with the agreement of the Minister of Defence, on maintaining intense attention for Central Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u26	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his replies on Rwanda and for his strategic plan for Central Africa. We have been hearing about it for many weeks and I hope he will come and present it quickly. I take note of the fact that the Minister of Defence was available because there was no record of this availability in his strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u27	You have no reply, Mr De Vriendt? You will then have the floor, Mr Claerhout.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u28	I look forward to the Africa note that we will receive in the coming months and will then be able to discuss it thoroughly. I would, of course, like to hear you say that in the coming months elements such as political pluralism, the diversity of power and the strengthening of civil society will remain on the political agenda, but I do have a lot of questions to ask. It sounds nice and it looks nice, but what will be the criteria and standards for our country to weigh up whether enough is happening? How will we evaluate and assess these matters? When will a red line be crossed for our country and when not? How will we enforce certain things? To what extent do we have an impact? Those questions remain pending for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u29	Minister, as we all know, the DRC is about to undergo an important electoral cycle since no fewer than six elections are scheduled in the relatively near future. This pre-electoral context makes it even more important to respect fundamental rights and freedoms. However, according to a report by Amnesty, the exercise of these rights and freedoms is far from being achieved. Minister, this information is, to say the least, disturbing given the pre-electoral context. Can you tell me whether Belgium plans to support the electoral process in the DRC? In what way? What is our Belgian and European diplomatic dialogue with the Congolese authorities in this regard? Are the issues raised in the Amnesty report an integral part of this dialogue? Will Belgium take part in an election preparation mission and/or an election observation mission? If Belgium issues a budget to finance the Congolese electoral process, will conditions be laid down? If so, can you tell me more about these conditions? Will respect for fundamental rights and freedoms be a criterion taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u30	Mr Crusnière, I thank you first of all for pointing out a worrying phenomenon. The latest report of the Joint United Nations Office for Human Rights in the Democratic Republic of the Congo points to the dramatic increase in violations in the electoral process. First of all, let me stress the need to organise elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in accordance with the Constitution, including the time limits set by the Constitution, as well as the rights and freedoms. Any other perspective would be very worrying. If there is to be a prior national dialogue, which the opposition has doubts about, it must remain technical and short. It is in this context that the mission of Edem Kodjo, which has been mandated by the African Union to carry out the necessary consultations for the launch of the dialogue in the DRC, must take place and which I support. It must quickly reach a consensus between all parties with a view to the organization of elections with respect for rights and freedoms in a calm and without unnecessary delay. That is also the message that I have made clear in recent months to various Congolese political actors, including representatives of the presidential majority. On the occasion of the opening of the Diplomatic Days, I reminded our diplomats, as well as diplomats accredited in Brussels, of our request that the Constitution be fully respected, in all its provisions, including the deadlines for holding elections. Reducing political space and the exercise of rights and freedoms is a matter of great concern. Following internal reflection, a strategy to further promote respect for human rights and the rule of law in the Democratic Republic of the Congo was developed. This includes support for human rights defenders, approaches, in individual cases, initiatives within a multilateral framework, and a clear message to the authorities on this subject during bilateral talks. We will work with our partners in the European Union and the United Nations. Our diplomats in Kinshasa regularly participate in multilateral meetings with the Congolese Government and CENI, but there are also frequent bilateral contacts. During all these contacts, we urge the Congolese authorities and CENI to achieve rapid progress in the technical preparations for the elections, including the revision of the electoral register, and clear commitments in terms of timing. Preparations for an updated electoral roster should have already begun. The international community has expressed its readiness to finance this exercise. Belgium, like other international partners, is prepared to support the electoral process in the DRC, with a clear timetable and a credible budget with a disbursement plan. Any financing of the electoral process will obviously have to be consistent with international standards, including transparency and respect for rights and freedoms. As for Belgium's participation in an election observation mission, the decision will be taken in a concerted manner with our European partners in order to guarantee free elections. At this stage, we do not yet know whether the conditions will be met. We will therefore take a decision at the appropriate time. Having said that, I stress that I have had the opportunity to say to a number of colleagues at European and international level that the principle of holding elections at the time and under the conditions laid down in the Constitution should continue to be kept under constant review, in the context of the most open and transparent process possible. In any case, that is what we will continue to advocate and try to get the Congolese authorities to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I fully agree with. You know I'm president of the bilateral Belgium-DRC section. As such, I met, not later than yesterday, the new Ambassador of the Democratic Republic of the Congo who told me that he had asked for an interview with you, which should take place shortly. It will also be received very soon by the IPU section as a whole. We will therefore continue to follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u32	I suggest that Mr Crusnière asks his questions at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u33	Madam President, Minister, on 18 December last the African Union Peace and Security Council decided, after bloody killings that killed more than 80 people, to send an African mission to prevent and protect civilians in Burundi. This mission, which is expected to last six months and include approximately 5,000 men, would aim to try to stop the violence in Burundi and to create conditions for it to begin the inter-Burundian dialogue. Regrettably, on 21 December last, the two chambers of Burundi opposed the dispatch of this African mission. A few days later, the President himself recalled that any violation of the integrity of Burundi's territory would have serious repercussions. Currently, representatives of the United Nations Security Council are in Burundi in order to make various contacts and to prevent the country from entering into a civil war. It was in this context, more than tense, that the preparatory meeting for the resumption of dialogue between members of the opposition and the government took place. It has been postponed, arrested and tried again to set up itself with great difficulty. Minister, dialogue between members of the opposition and the government seems to be the ultimate solution to put an end to the serious political crisis in Burundi. Do you think this national dialogue is likely to bear fruit? What African, European and international initiatives could be undertaken if this national dialogue failed? Have you had any requests from the diaspora or any opposition to this regime to go to this international dialogue? If so, what response has been given to these requests? My second question is more about the sanctions that could be imposed on members of the Burundian regime. As you know, MEPs adopted a resolution on the situation in Burundi last December. This resolution calls for, inter alia, expanded sanctions and the opening of an international criminal investigation into crimes committed in recent months. The events of recent weeks and the President's willingness not to respond positively to the African Union's request to send this preventive mission are far from reassuring us of a possible end to the current crisis. Minister, can you clarify to me the position of the government with regard to the management of the assets freeze of the Burundian regime? Does Belgium defend this type of targeted sanction? Have any initiatives been taken or will they be taken to implement this measure? So far, the European Union has frozen the assets of only four people. Do you intend to discuss this again with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u34	Minister, the situation in Burundi continues to deteriorate. Mr Crusnière has already referred to it. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is extremely concerned that violence is increasingly taking on an ethnic dimension. On Friday, the United Nations reported that mass graves would have been discovered. Order forces have committed widespread sexual violence, torture and disappearances. There would have been gang rapes of opponents of the regime. A recently leaked note from the head of UN Peacekeeping missions also indicates that the United Nations is not sufficiently prepared if the violence escalates completely. I have some questions. I asked those questions to the ambassador, too. I must confess it was a hallucinating encounter. How do you evaluate the statements made by the United Nations High Commissioner on, among other things, the regime's sexual violence and torture? They were denied by the ambassador. There hadn't been a single complaint. How do you assess the coverage of the increasing ethnic aspect of violence? How do you assess the reports of the head of UN Peacekeeping, who states that the international community would not be able to act if violence escalates strongly? What role can the promised African Union troops play?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are all following the situation in Burundi very closely. Last week, a mission to Burundi took place from the United Nations Security Council. That organisation called for an accelerated inclusive dialogue in Burundi. On 20 January 2016, we have just referred to this by Mrs Lijnen in the Committee on External Relations, the Burundian Ambassador to Brussels. He stated that an inter-Burundian dialogue had been established. However, I did not receive a clear answer from him to my question as to whether the political opposition is also involved in that dialogue, who is involved in that dialogue in general and how it relates to international dialogue. Minister, do you have any idea of progress on inclusive political dialogue in Burundi? What efforts can and will our country make in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u36	Madam President, Belgium remains very concerned about the situation in Burundi. Despite the apparent calm there are almost daily incidents, such as grenade attacks and shots. There are also regular deaths and injuries. More than 230 000 refugees have left the country, as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees once again reminded us this morning. Moreover, the economic situation is deteriorating. The State budget has been significantly reduced due to the sharp slowdown in commercial activity and sanctions by the international community. Uganda is currently leading a facilitation under the mandate of the East African Community, but the first meeting that took place in Entebbe on 28 December has been very difficult. The essential thing is, however, that the representatives of the government and the opposition were gathered around the table. Belgium supported this approach by allowing, at the request of the Ugandan mediator, Burundian political representatives to travel to Kampala for prior discussions. Our Ambassador was also present. The second meeting to be held in Arusha, Tanzania, on 6 January was postponed. According to information gathered by our embassies, this meeting could be held at the end of February. The inter-Burundian dialogue facilitated by the region is difficult, not only because the interests involved are opposed, but above all because of the intense resentments and frustrations on both sides. However, this dialogue is indispensable and we cannot resign ourselves to failure. We must therefore convince, by all means, both the government and the opponents of the need to dialogue and make concessions. At the beginning of January, I sent Africa's Director of Foreign Affairs to Bujumbura to stress the need to resume dialogue. My Special Envoy on the Great Lakes will do the same this week in Addis on the sidelines of the African Union summit. At this stage, there are a number of obstacles. The Burundian authorities do not recognize the CNARED group as a legitimate interlocutor, do not want the third mandate to be called into question and prefer the path of the Inter-Burund National Commission for Dialogue. It is important that Burundi's other partners, particularly in the region, also maintain their commitment. At the United Nations level, a Security Council mission visited Burundi from 20 to 22 January. In particular, she met with President Nkurunziza. According to the initial information, the Burundian authorities are still inflexible with regard to dialogue and the interposition force. The Secretary-General's Special Representative, Jamal Benomar, had previously visited Bujumbura. It will have a role to play in the coming months, particularly in support of mediation. It is first and foremost the African Union, at its summit this week in Addis, that will have to ensure that these resolutions are implemented. There is, of course, a national inter-Burundian dialogue committee set up by the President whose work began on 19 January in the province of Kirundo. In each provincial capital, the population can decide on various political and social issues. Opposition parties were also invited but did not show up. Even the FNL that is a member of the government stayed away. The opposition has no confidence in this process and fears that the Arusha agreements will be touched. The problem is also that most opposition members have been persecuted in Burundi and therefore cannot simply return to participate in the sessions within Burundi. If the CNDI wants to play a role, it will have to be complementary to the international dialogue and work on the credibility of this institution. For the time being, the conflict remains political, with terrible human rights consequences, but there is clearly an attempt to use ethnic origin for political purposes. The statements of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on increasing sexual violence are also particularly worrying. It is therefore urgent to launch an independent investigation into these facts, as requested by the Human Rights Council. After that, we need to move quickly towards measures to protect the civilian population. We're running out of time. I am pleased that you were able to have a dialogue with a representative of Burundi, in particular the Ambassador, in the External Relations Committee. It is good for the committee members to know how difficult it is sometimes to have a bilateral dialogue. I'm trying to continue the dialogue with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u38	Yes, but I am trying to go further in the dialogue with my colleague, the Foreign Minister of Burundi. So I'm gonna keep those contacts on. We are also trying to maintain contact with the ambassador in Brussels. It is interesting to learn that it was possible for this committee to have an exchange of views with Burundi's ambassador. As you mentioned, the African Union has proposed the deployment of an interposition force that could help to ease the situation. For the time being, the Burundian authorities are refusing the arrival of this mission called Maprobu. Discussions are still under way to convince these same authorities. The African Union has already prepared its operational concept for this operation, which could be adapted to the discussions. It would be a force of 5,000 men, including approximately 230 military personnel. There would also be police officers and civilian personnel. The troops that would constitute this force would come from African countries. As regards possible aid from Belgium, no request has been received. In any event, the African Union will need financial support. Belgium called on the European Union to give priority to this issue of financing, including through the African Peace Facility. At the same time, the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations is also exploring the potential for the deployment of a United Nations force. The Security Council mission will no doubt make recommendations on this subject. I stress that it is the task of the UN Security Council and of the African Union Peace and Security Council to carry out contingency planning and therefore to be sufficiently prepared when violence escalates. Belgium encourages both organisations to assume their responsibilities and to be prepared for all scenarios. This is, of course, in addition to the other international pressures that will be maintained as long as there is no progress. We support these pressures: individual sanctions and the planned freeze of certain EU aid programmes following the failure of the consultations provided for in Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. On 1 October 2015, the European Union adopted a list of individual sanctions (freeze of assets and travel ban) against four Burundian personalities, including a putschist. The United States adopted a similar list in November, which was extended to eight people in December 2015. Given the developments on the ground and the lack of progress in political dialogue, it is likely that the European Union's list will need to be extended in the near future. The European External Action Service and the Member States are already working on this issue. The future list may include elements of the armed opposition, as it should be recalled that the Union's sanctions are not just intended to punish the authorities and apply to any person or entity that threatens democracy, the rule of law and the search for a political solution, which incites violence or is responsible for serious human rights violations. Indeed, in addition to the repression carried out by the authorities, we are concerned about the increase in attacks by armed rebels and the increasing structure of violent rebellion. Sanctions are not a miracle solution to a political and security crisis, but they have a strong symbolic burden and can help change the behaviour of actors. The ICC prosecutor, Ms. Fatou Bensouda, is also closely following the situation. With regard to the protection of human rights defenders, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was considering the establishment of a programme for the protection of human rights defenders and journalists in Burundi. On 17 December 2015, the UN Human Rights Council, meeting in special session, adopted a strong resolution proposing, inter alia, the dispatch of independent experts to Burundi to investigate human rights violations, make recommendations and establish responsibilities. This expert mission has not yet been deployed. With regard to the additional assistance envisaged for refugees and human rights defenders, I invite you to ask my colleague, Alexander De Croo, who is working on this subject. We still recommend to the Belgians on the spot to leave the country, as long as that is still possible. This advice, which was also given by the US, Canada and the Netherlands, was given in view of the deterioration of the security situation in Burundi. At present 360 countrymen are present in Burundi. Our embassy remains in permanent contact with them. There is also a need to strengthen the security of our embassy and we are prepared to take all necessary action. However, our first concern is to establish a real dialogue, but unfortunately we have not yet made any real progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u39	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Indeed, we have experienced how difficult your task is from time to time. I'll give you a brief account of the meeting with the ambassador. There's nothing going on in Burundi. There are only a few riots in cities. Everything else is pee-pee-pee-pee-pee. The various groups of the population live peacefully spelled with a v and not with a There hasn't been any reports of a rape, of course not. What kind of victim would dare file a complaint? I was deguitered this afternoon. It can only strengthen us in the work we do here. Unfortunately, I often have the feeling that it brings little to the dike, but we continue to do so. We continue to condemn this. You're doing this, too. Our eyes are currently on the African Union, which can take decisions in the coming days. We hope that they will have the courage to do so and that they will find a solution. Together with you, however, I fear that, unfortunately, we should not be too optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u41	Minister, I would also like to thank you for your comprehensive reply. I am deeply concerned about the role that Belgium can and wants to play. That was one of my questions. You have again clearly stated that the lines remain open and that you are trying to engage in a dialogue. You are prepared to take various actions and you want to establish a real dialogue. However, this contrasts sharply with the meeting with the Burundian ambassador, who, in a very non-diplomatic manner, I shall not repeat his wordings, accusations and accusations against our ambassador, who was expelled from the country. I repeat, I am very concerned. I hope you'll be able to follow everything through other channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 8237 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will return to Europe. I mean, what's left. I'm talking about the United Kingdom. The possible decision of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union seriously questions our European project. At the end of last year, British Prime Minister David Cameron seized the President of the Council, Donald Tusk, of his unilateral demands through a letter. This is summed up in four essential points. Firstly, relations between the euro area and the other Member States. Secondly, the extension of the single market with a view, in particular, to weakening workers' rights. Thirdly, the removal of the reference in the Treaties to an ever-closer Union. This is an important element, with the desire to give national parliaments the right of veto over future European standards. Finally, there are a number of limitations to the free movement of workers, including the desire to reduce or limit the benefit of certain social benefits. An informal discussion was initiated by the Heads of State and Government and continued in the Council in mid-December 2015. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom hopes that negotiations will open in 2016. The scale of his requests makes me fear, if they were to be followed, that a further amendment of the Treaties will take place in the years to come. Minister, my questions are as follows. Could I have a copy of the letter David Cameron sent to Donald Tusk in November 2015? After the informal discussions in the European Council, could you tell me who members of the Council seem to follow this British line? What is Mr Cameron's support in the Council? Has any initiative been taken by our country to oppose, with other members, the demands of these supporters of less solidarity and less Europe, knowing that Belgium has always been a supporter of the opposite, i.e. more solidarity and more Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u44	Mr. Hellings, David Cameron's letter is at your disposal. He addressed this letter to the President of the European Council on 10 November 2015. The European Council last December allowed for a first 28-day discussion on the requests made by the British Prime Minister in this letter. At the end of this discussion, however, it is difficult to map the positions of the different Member States for two reasons. The first is that the discussion was informal and unstructured since it took place at a dinner. The second is that most of the requests in Mr. Cameron's letter remain rather vague. In the absence of clear requests, however, it is difficult to respond accurately. The need to safeguard the interests of non-euro area countries can thus be agreed, but it is difficult to decide without knowing the modalities of the mechanism that should ensure such compliance. The strengthening of the role of national parliaments can be supported without giving them the right to block. It can be recognised that the reference to an ever closer Union does not prevent several ways of integration while preserving the possibility of deepening European integration. The positions of the Member States can only be determined in detail once concrete proposals for texts are submitted. However, reservations have already been clearly expressed on two points. On the one hand, the UK's demand to be able to limit certain social benefits to EU nationals who have been resident and working in the UK for more than four years has been considered incompatible with the Treaty by many Member States, including Belgium. On the other hand, while we are prepared to reflect on the mechanism that could respond to the United Kingdom's concern to safeguard the interests of non-euro states, we must avoid setting up a mechanism that would block decisions or prevent the adoption of rapid decisions within the euro area when they are needed. The European institutions are expected to submit proposals for texts covering the four areas included in the British Prime Minister's list by early February. A negotiation process involving the sherpas of the Heads of Government and permanent representatives will then begin. The aim is to reach an agreement at the European Council on 18 February. I would add that Belgium is ready to participate in efforts to give as positive a response as possible to the requests made in this letter, while having red lines. I just gave some of those red lines. No blocking of the deepening of the euro area through mechanisms that would give this right of veto to external countries, no blocking either from national parliaments. The process is already very complex, but this does not prevent strengthening the role of these parliaments. At the political level, I would add that what will be decisive in the British referendum will be the British Government's commitment to a positive vote, regardless of the trade between the European Union and the British Government. But it's too early to give you anything else. Once the texts have been prepared in early February, we will be happy to come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Six pages, which I have not yet had the opportunity to read in detail, are a clear request and concrete proposals by the British Prime Minister. My question was to measure not a map, but the state of the troops at the present time. I believe that we are moving towards a cowardly fight, a form of cold war between the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union. We must be able to fight to defend our interests in this political battle. You have spoken of a red line; I hope that the initiatives you will be able to take towards your European colleagues and allies will lead you to have a large number of allies and partners behind this red line that is yours. I hope that you will also be able to convince Mr Cameron's best friend, the mayor of Antwerp, to keep the same red line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u46	Madam President, I have just been asked to postpone a number of questions because some of my fellow Members are not present. I have no problem with that, and I am delighted to do so for my fellow Members. However, I have noted that the question of executions in Saudi Arabia has since continued. I couldn't be there because I was still on another committee. So it's not like I was anywhere. I would therefore like, if it is technically possible, that I should not be deleted, but that question No. 8246 could be converted into a written question, so that I can get the answer myself. After all, I was not just absent, I was just doing my job in another committee. Having said that, I will ask my question about Yemen. Minister, on 10 January, the Shiara Hospital in North Yemen, which is managed by Doctors Without Borders, was hit by an unknown projectile. Four people were killed and ten injured, while the hospital itself suffered considerable damage. It is already the third attack on a building of Doctors Without Borders in Yemen in three months. This proves once again that the conflict in Yemen is taking a very heavy toll on the local population. At present, it is still unclear who is responsible for this attack on the hospital. Doctors Without Borders do report that they are in regular contact with all parties to the conflict to ensure that they are aware of the location of their hospitals. Mrs Mogherini has already condemned this attack and called on all parties to continue negotiations to find a political solution to the ongoing conflict. Minister, I have three questions on this matter. Can you give us an update on the outcome of the incident? What are the consequences for the region in terms of medical facilities? Who do you think is responsible for investigating this incident? Finally, what is the current state of play in the talks between the parties to this conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u47	Mrs Lijnen, the preliminary balance of Doctors Without Borders of the attack on the hospital mentions six dead and eight injured. Some of the wounded are still in critical condition, so it cannot be ruled out that the final balance will be even more severe. Despite this, Doctors Without Borders remain present and active in eight provinces, including Saatundah. However, the humanitarian situation remains very worrying, as the wounded find it difficult to get to the hospitals and the medical facilities have been targeted several times. Yemen is not the only country where it is sometimes impossible to get into a hospital. A while ago, we also took initiatives in this area for Syria. Doctors Without Borders, of course, carry out an investigation of their own in order to find out the right circumstances and facts. What has already been known is that all parties to the armed conflict are always informed about the localisation of the medical facilities of Doctors Without Borders. In addition, the warring parties should consider whether they have a responsibility in the incident and do what is necessary, if this is confirmed. It is also essential that they take all measures to avoid this in the future. The second round of the peace talks should have started on 14 January. However, the regional context and the termination of the ceasefire by the coalitions are negative factors in the negotiation process. Belgium supports and commends the efforts of Cheikh Ahmed, the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy, and hopes that the peace talks will be resumed soon. As already mentioned in an answer to other questions, the pressure from different countries in the region is very important, including for Yemen. We are now trying to start negotiations for Syria. I believe that this will also be the case for Yemen. Without pressure on all actors, it is impossible to reach a real political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u49	Questions Nos 8525 by Mrs De Coninck and 8629 and 8634 by Mr De Vriendt have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u50	Mr Minister, the Members of the European Parliament's International Trade Committee adopted a resolution on the Trade in Services Agreement, the TiSA, on 18 January. This is a political event in itself, because these very secret negotiations are rarely the subject of public debate, including in our parliamentary fora. This Commission resolution, which has not yet been approved in plenary, gives an idea of the red lines put forward by MEPs in the framework of the TiSA negotiations. Thanks to various amendments tabled by the Greens and voted by a majority, the final text of the resolution emptys the TiSA project of its toxic content: the amendments were designed in such a way as to strengthen in the general interest the standards of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) in force for the last 20 years. This resolution requires the European Commission to review the offer to open markets - which has so far been very excessive - that it had already made to the other negotiating countries of the TiSA. For example, the resolution calls for trade negotiations within the World Trade Organization (WTO) rather than through agreements similar to the TiSA, which, on the contrary, could dismantle common rules, in particular those protecting public services. In this respect, the Green amendment excluding public services and the amendment recognising a leading role for local public authorities have been adopted. Thus, the countries concerned by the future TiSA will have to be able to derogate from their trade commitments if they were to run counter to the pursuit of their climate objectives, including the implementation of the recent Paris climate agreement. Another chapter of the resolution states that less developed countries wishing to accede to the treaty should be given some flexibility to avoid being crushed by greater openness to international trade. In the area of data protection and privacy, European regulations will have to be respected even if they do not comply with other international rules. According to MEPs, TiSA cannot be used as a Trojan horse to counter the re-regulation of financial services, as this could jeopardize global stability as the subprime crisis showed in 2008. Minister, I come to my questions. Are you in line with the positions developed by the resolution adopted by the European Parliament's International Trade Committee last week? Will you defend these views in the Council on behalf of Belgium? The next TiSA negotiations will take place in the first week of February. In view of the vote on this resolution in the European Parliament, is the Council considering asking the Commission to change its position in this negotiation? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u51	Mr Hellings, I confirm that Belgium has always supported the European Commission's efforts to promote transparency in the negotiations for an agreement on trade in services. In response to this request, the Commission has published numerous documents on its website, such as the European Union's offer and the Commission's negotiating mandate. Belgium has also actively supported the declassification of the mandate. By participating in the TiSA negotiations, the European Union aims to strengthen the multilateral trading system, which Belgium shares. The parties involved in these negotiations have developed the TiSA to be compatible with the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) concluded by the 162 WTO members. If a sufficient number of its members join, the TiSA could then be extended to the entire organization. As a reminder, each member may choose the types of services that he or she wishes to open to competition from other participants and the conditions that he or she wishes to apply. Each State makes commitments according to the structure of its service markets, according to the sectors it wishes to protect and its level of economic development. Thus, less developed countries will not be forced to provide more open markets. With regard to the protection of public services, services provided in the exercise of governmental power are excluded from the scope of the Agreement. The European Union has also taken – as in its other trade agreements – a horizontal reserve for services of general interest (public utilities). This means that services considered to be such at national or local level may be subject to public monopolies or that exclusive rights may be granted to private operators. The European Union also has no commitment to sensitive sectors such as health services, social services, publicly funded education, services related to water collection, treatment, distribution and management. Nor does it provide for audiovisual services, with reservations for each of these areas. TiSA will therefore not force governments to privatize or deregulate a public service at national or local level. This is also Belgium's position, which has already been repeated many times. The TiSA also provides for the same privacy protection measures as those in the GATS. Nothing in the agreement will prevent the European Union from applying its privacy or data protection laws. Moreover, nothing proposed will affect a country's right to regulate financial services, provided that foreign companies are treated in the same way as local ones. For example, any country may continue to adopt precautionary measures to ensure the integrity of its financial system and, above all, to protect consumers and investors. For financial services, TiSA is based mainly on two existing agreements within the WTO. I turn to your concerns about the impact of trade agreements such as TiSA on the implementation of the climate agreement. I refer you to my answer to one of your questions in December, number 7922. In the same spirit, we will continue to follow the negotiations by trying to guarantee all the points that have already been announced by both Belgium and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm sorry to be the last one to ask you a question in an ever bigger room. Where are we going to stop? With regard to transparency, I would like to congratulate you on your initiative on the consolidated TTIP documents, which will soon be available to your firm or administration. We will make use of this. This is an excellent initiative that allows us to exercise our parliamentary control. I would like you to take the same kind of initiative when the consolidated texts of the TiSA are available, if the delegations come to an agreement on an adventurous basis. It is quite interesting to see that we are now moving towards multilateral negotiations within the WTO, or in any case closer to the WTO, for a simple reason: the multilateral system that you and Belgium have always defended allows the countries of the South and the European countries to co-operate to defend their interests, in particular the general interest. Although the WTO may face a number of difficulties, the advantage of multilateralism is that it can promote the interests of the countries of the South. And that's a good thing. We'll follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u53	Questions Nos 8703 by Mr Crusnière, 8719 by Mrs Jadin, 8732 by Mrs Jiroflée, 8767 by Mrs Lijnen, 8772 by Mr Crusnière, 8803 by Mrs Capoen, 8870 by Mrs Jadin and 8804 by Mrs Capoen have already been discussed, postponed or converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u54	Regardless of the issue, I would like to make it clear that the documents are already available under the TTIP. I have no objection to looking at how to work in a comparable way within the framework of the TiSA in case of progress. I will only ask you to communicate the news to the other members of the committee. Tomorrow morning is the annual breakfast between diplomats on Diplomatic Day and Parliament. If other parliamentarians could be present, that would be good. There wasn't a lot of people in previous years. But I always thank those who come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u55	Venezuela has been in the grip of the opposition's victory over President Maduro's chavist regime for several months. The latter has taken steps to break down the majority of the opposition. He's installing a shadow parliament. He is bringing in the Supreme Court to have the election of some Members declared illegal. For example, there are by chance enough people's representatives to break down the majority of anti-Chavist democrats. What diplomatic policy are we pursuing in this regard? What analysis do your services make of the situation in Venezuela? There is even talk of a possible bankruptcy of the country. What are the possible consequences for us? Have you been in contact with your Venezuelan colleague or with the Venezuelan ambassador? If so, what was discussed there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic326x.u56	The recent victory of the opposition in Venezuela is a rejection of the regime. President Maduro, however, remains the President-elect. Belgium and the EU are encouraging both sides to jointly and democratically form a compromise through dialogue and to address the numerous problems facing the country. The challenge here is to turn the protest into positive action rather than political revenge. Unilateral party opting for the opposition and ignoring the current government would be counterproductive. President Maduro's latest measures need to be legally evaluated, but there is no compromise acceptable on political prisoners and the amnesty law. The analysis of my services is pessimistic. A confrontation is not excluded, but does the opposition have any other choice? Belgium exported EUR 267,7 million to Venezuela in 2014, with traditional chemicals, machinery and food products on the list. Belgium imported EUR 374.4 million from Venezuela in 2014, most of which are oil and derivatives. These figures remain stable year after year. Belgian firms have been operating on the spot for a long time under difficult conditions, for example because of a shortage of foreign exchange to import raw materials. So I do not expect any major change, even if there is bankruptcy of the Venezuelan state. On the contrary, I hope that the opposition will be able to come forward with some positive measures. For years, contacts with the Venezuelan authorities have been very difficult, not only for Western European countries, but also for neighbours and friends from the region. Even the three mediators Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador, led by the Vatican, are deterred and are careful to take initiatives. The Venezuelan ambassador was received regularly by my services and will also be received this week. Because he represents the current government and its positions, a real dialogue remains rather limited. I had a brief conversation with our ambassador in Venezuela. He had the same very pessimistic analysis for the next few weeks and months. There is always a dialogue between the President, the Government and the opposition, but I have heard that this is very difficult so far.
