ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday 11 November 2015, the European Commission published rules for the differentiated labelling of Israeli products manufactured in the occupied West Bank, East Jerusalem (the Arab part of the city) and on the part of the Golan Heights (Syria) annexed by the Hebrew State in December 1981. Recalling that these settlements are illegal under international law, this Commission note should enable the full, full and effective implementation of European legislation applicable to settlement products. Therefore, Minister, I come to you to ask you about this and how Belgium will apply these rules in practice. How will it organise the implementation of these measures and on what timetable? Finally, does Belgium intend to take any specific initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u2	Dear colleague, already in July 2014, my predecessor had issued a notice to retailers regarding the labelling of the origin of products from the territories occupied by Israel, in the form of a recommendation. It had been sent to all members of the Consumer Council, i.e. the federations representing production and distribution, the middle classes and consumer organisations. The purpose of this opinion is to explain the existing legislation on the labelling of the origin of products from the territories occupied by Israel. In this way, misleading information can not be given to consumers on this point. The indication of the origin of the products is not compulsory; however, it is prohibited to mislead the consumer as to the origin of the products. For example, it is considered that the labelling of goods originating in Israeli settlements on the Golan Heights and/or in the West Bank as an Israeli product is misleading. Similarly, the indication of the correct geographical origin of these products, without any indication of their origin from a colony, is also considered misleading. It is therefore recommended to clarify whether these products come from an Israeli colony. This recommendation is in line with the European Commission's interpretative notice of November. I therefore do not think it would be useful to take further initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u3	Mr Minister, unfortunately I am afraid that this recommendation sent to the various operators in 2014 has not been very effective so far. To date, settlement products are still frequently found in shops, which are not informed as such, for the sake of the simple reason that there is no legal obligation to do so today. The rules published by the European Commission highlight the illegality of these settlements under international law. Therefore, products from these illegal territories are sold to us illegally. By not implementing more stringent and binding rules, we must note that we encourage these illegal practices. However, it is our responsibility not to do so, and I regret that this is not the case. I will come back to you and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that these rules are actually implemented in Belgium, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u4	I am also very sensitive to this problem. I will therefore refer this 2014 recommendation to the operators and I will inform the Economic Inspectorate to ensure that certain abuses will be stopped in order to satisfy Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u5	I'll check this out right now. Are you happier than you used to be, Mrs. Grovonius?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u6	So it's useful to ask questions! This answer does not satisfy me entirely but is an interesting beginning. We'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u7	The minister has not made many openings on mortgage credit; he is one here and we take note of it. It's a piece of shit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u8	Minister, I hope you will make me as happy as my colleague. At least the bar is high. My question dates back to December last year and was tabled following the entry into force of a new European regulation on interbank fees. This Regulation set a ceiling, inter alia, on the level of interbank fees for national and international transactions involving credit and debit cards. This would have a price lowering effect, especially for Member States where interbank fees are relatively high. This was also expected to reduce the costs for traders. That regulation has been in force for three months now. This has the advantage that an evaluation can already be made. Now that this regulation is in force, what are the consequences for traders and consumers? That Regulation also aims to encourage a single European market for the use of e-commerce and to regulate interchange fees in order to eliminate discrimination between Member States. If the real intention is to encourage e-commerce, the reduction of these transaction costs applies to online payments and mobile payments. Can you clarify why or why not? Member States may set even lower reimbursement rates for national transactions. In your policy paper, you announced that you would take a legislative initiative to set the national ceilings for these fees. Can we then assume that there will be even lower reimbursement rates? Do you have any idea when we can expect this legislative initiative? I would like to make one final point. Some traders still charge a small fee to the consumer for payments with a card. A European directive will prohibit traders from passing on any further costs to consumers. When will this directive be transposed into national law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u9	Mr Dierick, as the interchange fees for the trader represent a large part of the costs for payment transactions, a reduction in those fees will have an impact on those costs. However, the European Regulation only regulates fees for consumer debit and credit card-based payment transactions. Payment transactions with commercial cards and payment transactions with a non-European country shall not be arranged. Online and mobile payments are therefore also envisaged in the provisions governing the level of interchange fees. As far as national debit card payments are concerned, these provisions will not have a major impact in view of the already relatively low rates. However, I hope that I will make you happy with this, and indeed the intention to reduce those rates further, below the 0.2 percent threshold of the regulation for national payments. I will take the necessary initiatives to this end. On the other hand, these provisions will have an important impact on the trader's costs in respect of credit card payments, since those rates will currently reduce to 0.3 %, on average 0.8 % per transaction. In a first phase, a legal provision will have to be adopted that empowers the King to regulate matters. In a second phase, the king will issue a royal decree setting these limits. The proposed legal provision was incorporated into a law laying down various provisions, which will soon be discussed at the Council of Ministers. I hope that will also make you happy. As far as your fourth question is concerned, regarding the ban on charging a smaller fee for card payments, I can tell you that a new directive on payment services has indeed been adopted. Member States now have a period of two years from the entry into force of the Directive to transpose it by the beginning of 2018 at the latest. I do not think we should wait that long. I guess we could do that sooner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u10	Minister, you have made me very happy. I've only heard positive answers. We look forward to the initiatives you will take in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick has converted 8097 into a written question. Questions Nos 8107, 8747 in 8108 by Mrs Van Winckel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u12	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, when a client fails to pay an invoice within the time specified by the company providing a service, the company is charged a penalty or interest on late payment. Penalties are a fixed amount, usually of a small amount. Interest on late payment depends on the amount of the invoice to which it applies. Where the invoice is substantial, the additional amount to be paid may be based on the percentage, usually 10%, of a large amount. Of course, since the aim is to protect businesses from bad payers, this kind of financial sanction does not have to be questioned on its principle. However, in order for the customer to act in an informed manner, it is necessary that the general terms and conditions that mention these late payment penalties and interest be brought to the customer's attention in a visible, legible and understandable manner. Their mention on the back of the invoices does not seem to be sufficient, if there is not at the time of the order a mention on the front or, at the very least, a reference on the front to the conditions stipulated on the back. The absence of any mention of these conditions also does not preclude the application of interest for late payment or default. The amount is therefore fixed by the Act of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. It is set at 2.5 per cent for an individual and 8.5 per cent for an enterprise. Minister, these non-existent or unreadable statements are, in the best interests of the client, a difficulty that he or she will be able to respond to without any major concern. They may also be a tragedy for a person with modest incomes, if the interests in question affect a product or property at a significant cost. Minister, do you intend to put in place a specific framework to make these terms and conditions more obvious, accessible and readable so that clients act with real knowledge? Do you intend to set rules and limits, not only in terms of communication, but also in terms of amounts, as is already the case in the above-mentioned Act of 2 August 2002 in the event of a lack of indication in purchase orders and invoices so that the sums requested by the companies to their customers remain incentives without being excessive in relation to the damage committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u13	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, you are asking me whether there is a need to establish additional rules on communication and on the amount of late payment interest charged by companies to their customers. As far as consumer communication is concerned, I refer to the general provisions on market practices and, in particular, to the provisions on unfair terms. In order for the general conditions of an undertaking, including the provisions relating to interest on delay, to be enforceable against the consumer, the consumer had to have the opportunity to learn about them before the conclusion of the contract. If they are only communicated after, for example with the invoice, after delivery, they cannot be enforceable against it. According to European case law, the court seised in a consumer dispute is obliged to declare null and void the unfair terms. Furthermore, the Court of Justice mentions that Directive 93/16 precludes a Member State from determining that a judge, after having decided to declare a clause null and void, may have the opportunity to review the content of that clause. In concrete terms, when the judge concludes that a clause provides for an interest in undue delay, he will have to declare that clause null and void. This type of interest cannot therefore be charged to the consumer. As far as the amount of interest on late payment is concerned, you referred to the law of 2 August 2002. This law applies only to transactions between traders or between traders and public authorities. For consumers, the law of 5 May 1865 on loan for interest is applicable. It determines the legal interest rate that is published annually by the Treasury administration. For 2016, this rate is 2.25%. As for the amount and disclosure of interest on late payment, there is extensive case law in Belgium. Mr Flahaux, in view of the importance of your question for regular commercial transactions and the protection of consumers and traders, I have asked the Consumer Council to look into this issue and to give me its opinion on whether more detailed rules should be laid down in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u14	Mr President, Minister, your answers today are more than positive. I did not expect you to seek the opinion of the Consumer Council, but this is nevertheless an excellent initiative. Indeed, in the first part of your reply, you referred to the errors in communication in the head of public enterprises. According to what you said, if their complaint is well-founded, the complainants are satisfied, but it still needs to be brought before the court. Few people dare to seek justice. It should be noted that most citizens have little to do with justice in their lives, and that is something that we can rejoice at. And starting legal proceedings is always annoying. That is why I believe that having asked for the opinion of the Consumer Council is an excellent thing, and I would like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u15	Minister, you have recently answered a parliamentary question about controls in tanning centres. This response highlighted the implementation of internal controls carried out by the professional organisation Febelsol and a significant fall in the controls of the SPF Economy. In response, you announced a strengthening of the controls and said: "I have sent a clear signal to the sector that we are maintaining zero tolerance against infringements that involve a direct risk to health", which we can only support. However, I am concerned about the fulfilment of your good intentions. Indeed, on 17 July 2013, a resolution aimed at improving the education and early detection of skin cancers in order to stop their steady and rapid progression was passed in the federal parliament. It already called for the strengthening of controls and for the amendment of the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 on the conditions for the operation of tanning centres in order to increase prevention. Minister, why has point 4 of this resolution not yet been implemented? When do you intend to carry out this amendment to the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 on the conditions of operation of tanning centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u16	Mr de Lamotte, the resolution to which you refer dates from the previous legislature. As far as I am concerned, I attacked the problem of tanning centres as soon as I became Minister for Consumer Protection. An important element of this file is the opinion that the Supreme Council of Health will issue. Unfortunately, this opinion has been postponed several times and is not yet available. As in other areas, I have put in place a consultation with the industry in order to achieve better enforcement of the regulations. This consultation also led to the establishment of a new professional organisation in spring 2015. Unfortunately, last year's control figures show no improvement. Thus, I have entrusted the Economic Inspectorate with a more intensive and strict control regime. As you know, I want to make Carrefour des Entreprises Bank the unique source for all business information. It is therefore appropriate to include a precise identification in this single source. Today, the owner of a solar bench must register under NACE-BEL 96040 (body maintenance). This section is wide and also includes saunas, baths and other body care. For this reason, I have asked my administration to examine the possibility of a split of the code and to create a specific heading for the operation of solar benches. From then on, the 2002 Order could be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u17	Minister, thank you. I hope it will be quick because we are facing a public health problem. This is a major concern especially since the controls are almost in free fall. It is about everyone's health in this country. I would like to insist and request your reactivity on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u18	Mr President, I can inform Mr de Lamotte that the Economic Inspectorate has already closed three farms in Flanders. On the other hand, I agree with you, it is a real danger to health and it is a very urgent issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u19	So I encourage you to continue this control; it is in the best interest that the centres be approved, also respecting the standards of the Higher Council of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u20	Question No 8746 by Mrs Winckel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u21	Mr President, Minister, as is often the case, we Members of the European Parliament have received distress calls from the daily merchants. We have been aware of this problem in committee for a long time now. Several questions have already been raised during the present legislature. Competition among stakeholders and participants in the consultation in the Committee on Independent Journal Trade is high and confidence is low. I have only heard of one report made public on the issue. In addition, the committee meets less and less often. The little merchants are drowning in this situation. Unlike the large distribution companies, especially AMP, there is a need for results. They're running out of time. I know that the pressure on the newspapers is also high because of the digital changes. So it's not a simple file. However, the main victims are already the small self-employed. How long they can keep their heads above water is unclear. A shift is needed in both relations between publishers, distributors and daily trade. The daily trade needs modernisation as well as professionalisation. What will you do about it, Minister? When can we expect another report? How are the meetings going? With what do we return to the daily merchants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Vanheste has already outlined the situation and she has already raised a number of questions which I also wanted to ask and which I will certainly not repeat. However, I also have a question for figures. Do you have any idea of the number of daily sales that have gone bankrupt in the last five years? Can you divide those figures by year and by region? It is also important to know whether new shops will be opened, because if only shops close, the situation will become increasingly difficult. I would have liked to have had some more information on this. Mrs Vanheste has already asked questions about the committee on independent daily trading and the interim reports. I will certainly not repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u23	Mr President, Mr Vanheste and Mr Dierick, in replying to your questions regarding the follow-up to the resolution on the distribution of newspapers and magazines, I can confirm that the Committee on Independent Daily Commerce decided to hold a bimonthly meeting from its eighth meeting on 2 February 2015. Eleven meetings have been held so far. The first and second half-yearly reports on the Committee's work were sent to the Chair of the Chamber of Representatives in October 2014 and November 2015 respectively. In addition, I can also provide statistics on bankruptcies and the creations in the retail sector in newspapers and magazines in specialised shops. That's NACE 47.620. According to the statistics available to me regarding the bankruptcies in the last five years, i.e. from 2011 to 2015, the sector experienced on average 76 bankruptcies, including 30 in the Flemish Region, 17 in the Brussels-Capital Region and 29 in the Walloon Region. As regards the opening of new outlets, the average was calculated over a period of four years, i.e. from 2011 to 2014, because the consolidated figures for 2015 were not yet available. The retail sector in newspapers and magazines in specialised stores, NACE code 47.620, recorded an average of 182 new outlets of which 89 in the Flemish Region, 22 in the Brussels-Capital Region and 71 in the Walloon Region. The independent daily trading committee met four times in the course of 2015. Although the interests of the main parties may still differ, I think I can say that all the members of the committee have recognised that it is in the interests of their sector to reach a compromise. They have decided to maintain this forum for dialogue. It is in this context that AMP and Prodipresse have put an end to the trade dispute that has divided them since the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 26 December 2014 concerning the increase in shipping costs charged by AMP to the daily merchants. In this context, I refer to a joint press release of 5 June 2015 by AMP and Prodipresse. A compromise is still being sought with the other parties involved: VFP, Unizo, Neighborhood Super and Standard Boekhandel. The dialogue in the Committee on Independent Daily Commerce is functioning properly. In particular, the dialogue contributed to the adoption of new delivery conditions for the independent daily trade and to a debate on the professionalism of the independent daily trade. This debate was led by Mr Paul Duquesne with the PME Trading Group. The creation of an information centre for the independent newspaper trade is also under way. The creation of a private website to support the existing network of independent daily shops aims to form a tool that contains all the necessary information for opening, taking over or operating a newspaper store. In addition, this private website also intends to provide information on training and legal requirements and facilitate cooperation between such outlets. The site is currently in an experimental phase and is temporarily hosted by an AMP URL, but will then be hosted by a URL linked to the commission. For start-ups, this site can paint an important picture of the environment before deciding to start. On the basis of a number of criteria, they will be able to assess the risks and decide whether or not to take the step. Is there a lot of newspaper shops around? Is there enough traffic in the immediate vicinity of the store? Is the facility suitable for press? The site should provide a true start guide for the candidate newspaper dealer. Finally, I would like to point out that the half-yearly frequency of the reports of the Committee on the Official Journal of the European Communities, which started its work on 3 March 20414, is not related to the calendar year but depends on the progress made. To answer your question about my intentions, I would like to stress that I, together with you, hope that the various parties will soon reach a compromise. In essence, I am convinced of this and I assume that the consultation structure set up by my predecessor will provide a strong incentive to bring the dialogue thus begun to a positive conclusion. I think it is too early to know the impact on the daily trade of the recent takeover by bpost from newspaper distributor AMP and the Belgian activities of the French Travel Retail Lagardère. I do assume that bpost will continue to honour AMP's commitments in the independent newspaper trade committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u24	Minister, I am actually glad to hear that dialogue and consultation are going well. That's what I was supposed to do. That AMP has solved the problems, we would also have put forward a strong objective. As far as the reports are concerned, I have only seen one. Maybe I missed the other reports. Mr President, are these reports coming in through the committee? Maybe they can be transferred to us again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u25	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u26	Minister, it is very remarkable that there are 76 bankruptcies, while 182 new outlets are being set up. Now that we know how many are going bankrupt, I find it rather frightening to learn how many new ones are being created. We should know whether these new cases are being started under the same formula or whether the sale of newspapers is being combined with the sale of other articles, even though I do not know how to investigate them. I do know that it is very difficult for the daily merchants these days. Those involved know that I care about them. They often raise the alarm and we really need to keep an eye on that sector. Most daily dealers also sell items such as tobacco, whose sales are more difficult, while newspapers are increasingly digitised. Lottery products are the last in my list of sales products. So there is great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. Seventy-six bankruptcies, that's sad news, but there's also hope that there are still people who have the courage to start a store. I think it is important that they are properly supervised. The site in question therefore seems to me to be a good initiative to inform people about the risks they are taking so that they can properly assess the chances of success. I hope, together with you, that a compromise will be reached. We still think that achieving a solution through dialogue is very important. Daily merchants have a very important social function, and that is why we must keep their profession viable. That is why we have tabled a resolution as a priority proposal, which will certainly continue to address this issue in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssens' 9024 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this question has been going on for some time and many figures have been available. You have made a lot of efforts to draw up a code of conduct for fitness centres. That is important, because there were a number of abuses. A code of conduct has now been established in dialogue with the sector. How many fitness centres have signed the code of conduct today? The code of conduct was drawn up together with the sectoral organisations. It was also said that there was still some uncertainty about it. Is there any more clarity about that now? Have any modifications been made to it? If those who have signed the code of conduct fail to comply with it, will additional measures be taken? Do you have another stick behind the door or don't you think this is what you need?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u30	Minister, it is not the first time that questions have been asked about fitness centres. In order to avoid certain problems in the future, a code of conduct was drawn up in conjunction with the sector. This code of conduct can restore the potentially damaged image of the sector. In any case, it offers the customer the opportunity to break the contract in certain cases and the prices and contracts became more transparent. Following the signature of the Code of Conduct by the sector, some major chains did not intend to sign the Code of Conduct. Some points would be unclear and not apply to a brand with more than one hundred clubs. Now we were told that the two biggest fitness centres, Jims and Basic-Fit, are prepared to sign the code of conduct. It shall apply to them from 1 April 2016. What were the uncertainties in the code of conduct for the large chains? Was the code of conduct still adapted to the demand of the large chains or did they agree to the code of conduct agreed with the sector? How many fitness centres are currently not part of the code of conduct? Will you require fitness centres in the future to sign this code of conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you may already have the code of conduct for fitness and the frequently asked questions. Otherwise, I can get them to you. The list of fitness centres that have signed the code of conduct shall be published on the website of the FPS Economy. According to the latest state of affairs yesterday, the list includes 148 fitness companies, including Basic Fit. The accession of that chain will begin on 1 April. A number of IT systems still needed to be adapted in order to comply with the code. According to the data I received from the FBO, there are 1 562 enterprises with NACE code 93130 fitness. Those companies were registered. I do not have any precise data on the number of companies that actually carry out the activity, but that number will be much lower. It was agreed with the professional group that they would collect and deliver questions from fitness centres about the code of conduct. At the beginning of February I received a list of questions. Almost all the chapters of the Code of Conduct raised questions. Several points appear to be misunderstandings about the legislation itself. The explanation was given in mid-February and in the meantime there is the questionnaire, which I will provide to the secretariat. The code of conduct itself was no longer adapted, not even at the request of the large chains. Finally, I expect these initiatives to encourage more companies to sign the code of conduct. The fact that Jims and Basic-Fit, the main chain, have signed the code, will undoubtedly have a beneficial effect. Today I believe I can conclude that the code of conduct is working in the sector. The Code of Conduct contains a number of rules which are not legally or regulatoryly imposed and to which an undertaking commits itself in the context of its commercial practices. To impose the rules or, in other words, to require the fitness company to do so would be contrary to the European Directive on Commercial Practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u32	Minister, the drafting of such a code is indeed a very good tool for dialogue with the sector. The numbers show that the code is working. There was indeed some uncertainty, but the frequently asked questions can shed some light on that. In any case, they are a good thing. The communication about who signed the code of conduct to the users of fitness centres is very important. This could also be an additional incentive for fitness centres that have not yet signed the code to do so. After all, the consumer attaches importance to this. I thank you in advance for your efforts in this area for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u33	Madam President, I am not going to add anything to this. Mrs Dierick's reply was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Véronique Caprasse's 9118 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne's 9323 has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u35	Minister, the new legislation requiring certain horeca companies to have a cash register system is not yet fully effective. That is why last week I asked the Minister of Finance again about the adjustments that still need to be made and the royal orders that need to be published. However, the consequences of this fluctuating legislation are already numerous. First, some operators are not in good standing because they have not yet purchased a cash register, as the required characteristics are not always precise. Thus, they do not know which system to turn to, knowing that prices may vary by a factor of four or five. Secondly, some traders have acquired one even though, following the new adaptation, they are no longer required to do so. Thirdly, trade unions are concerned about the legality of this provision and await the royal decrees which will finally formally put it into effect. They may wish to question the legality of this law. Moreover, the consumer is also in an unfortunate position, as it would appear that a significant increase in prices in Horeca has been recorded. According to the Union Neutrale pour Indépendants (SNI), more than 50% of restaurants, breweries and taverns have increased their prices by an average of 10% since the beginning of the year. Finally, according to the NIS, this new measure would appear to have an impact on staff. For example, "one fifth of the establishments had to dismiss one or more employees because of the black box and for all establishments that have not yet fired employees in service, 58% are thinking of doing so". My questions are as follows. Has an increase in prices in horeca establishments been recorded as reported by the NIS? What is the employment situation in Horeca? Has there been any evidence of an impact from the introduction of the cash register? Finally, has an analysis of these two elements been or will be carried out in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u36	Dear colleague, to answer your first question, the "restaurants and coffees" group is one of the subgroups influencing the consumer price index. Between January 2015 and 2016, this index increased from 103.96 to 107.24, an inflation rate of 3.15%. Between December 2015 and January 2016, there was an average increase of 0.39%. However, institutions do not systematically adjust their prices at the same time and a longer period of analysis should be taken into account before a possible conclusion can be drawn. As far as your second question is concerned, the practical implementation of the horeca cash register system took place in several stages - as you are well aware - due in particular to an adaptation of the legislation, with a gradual introduction during 2015 and a continuation of the work in 2016. It is therefore premature to draw definitive conclusions on the positive effects and negative effects of this legislation. As regards the impact on employment in the horeca sector as a whole, there is no job loss in the first three quarters of 2015, compared to the corresponding quarters of 2014. On the contrary, over this time horizon, employment would have increased by 2.5%. More specifically, the number of staff increased by 1.9% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the previous year. Here too, an observation of statistics over a longer period of time will be necessary. To answer your third question, I would say that a longer period of time will have to be taken into account. It is therefore premature to analyse or draw conclusions on the positive effects and negative effects of this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u37	Mr.Minister, we are therefore going to put ourselves in the long term, as you have just explained. I hear your answer. I also hear the remarks of the union of the independents. I imagine that the truth can be in the middle and that we will see, in the long run, who will be right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u38	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of 2015, the image of our country abroad had been a little mischievous. We talked about Belgium bashing in some media. Thirteen foreign chambers of commerce in Belgium responded in an open letter. The purpose of this open letter was to mislead the words relayed at the time. According to chambers of commerce: "Belgium continues to be an attractive country for investment, a safe place to develop its business activities and an ideal place to live. (...) Statistically, Belgium is one of the safest countries in the world." The strengths of our country, which offers an attractive business environment, were also highlighted: a high-quality workforce, an ideal geographical location, transport and logistics infrastructure, a state-of-the-art technology industry, an open economy, etc. The letter concluded by inviting potential investors to "say yes to Belgium". Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is there any real idea of the impact this bad press has had on the country's economy? Should communication strategies be put in place with potential investors? If positive points were highlighted in this open letter, it would also be interesting to know where we can still improve. In addition to the consequences of the terrorist threat, what are the points that can still prevent entrepreneurs and investors from engaging in economic activity in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u39	Mr Friart, the joint statement by the chambers of commerce on the investment climate in Belgium has been the subject of good media coverage in the Belgian press. The message should be disseminated even more widely, in particular in the foreign press, but also for the use of the testimonies of foreign companies active in Belgium. The Prime Minister has entrusted the governor of the National Bank with the task of appointing a group of wise men who will be responsible for making strategic proposals to support foreign investments and measures related to the tax shift. Third: Attractiveness and competitiveness remain a focus for the government. On this subject, my administration publishes twice a year the scoreboard on the competitiveness of the Belgian economy, which highlights a number of strengths, such as our high productivity, the quality of our education system or the favourable evolution of our unit wage cost. The points to be improved are also pointed out, such as our modest labour market participation rate, our exports which remain mainly oriented towards our neighbouring countries and not to the emerging countries, our high relative costs of administrative procedures for business facilitation and finally, the level of wage costs higher than that of neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u40	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for this concise but comprehensive overview of our Belgian economy today. I am pleased to learn that the Prime Minister will set up a commission or a group of wise men to make strategic proposals on this matter for our country. It is true that the tax shift can bring us a lot. Perhaps we need to be able to communicate more abroad about this. I also think that the work is never over. We also have our mobility problems that will have to be solved one day, and ISOC for companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u41	Madam President, Minister, in 2015, a very large number of counterfeit products, put on sale on online platforms, were seized by the services of the SPF Economy. According to the figures provided, as many as 22,000 disputed property was confiscated last year, including perfumes, clothing, handbags and shoes. Of course, we can welcome these high figures, which illustrate the important work of federal agents in ending trafficking that harms economic actors, the preservation of jobs and the safety of consumers, especially when it comes to drugs or toxic substances. However, caution should be exercised, as underground networks use increasingly effective subterfuges to dispose of their goods. In order to take stock of this issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the trends in seizures made by your services in recent years? What are the products that are the subject of the biggest traffic today? What new measures have been put in place this year to support the work of federal agents in their fight against contentious Internet sales? What is the nature of online platforms? What is the general level of cooperation, especially social networking sites, to combat the phenomenon of sales of counterfeit products?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u42	Mr Calomne, the seizure of counterfeit products is always carried out in the context of investigations conducted by the Economic Inspectorate. The nature of the seized products depends heavily on these investigations. First, all complaints received are reviewed and processed. Investigations carried out by the Inspectorate on its own initiative are determined after a risk analysis. Counterfeiting is very sensitive to fashion trends. When a product is very popular, you automatically find more counterfeits on the market. In recent years, the Economic Inspectorate has mainly seized cosmetic products, cleaning products, smartphones and luxury products.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u43	In addition, no new measures were introduced in 2015. On the other hand, projects are being developed to enable the Inspectorate's agents to detect disputed advertisements more quickly on the Internet and thus enable them to take action before consumer signals reach them. The Economic Inspectorate works with online platforms to identify those responsible for offences. When my services find violations of economic regulation or the presence of the sale of counterfeit products, they send an identification request to the relevant platform. In most cases, the data received are used to identify and prosecute offenders for the above-mentioned facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am convinced that the strengthening of the preventive measures on which you are working will make it possible to fight this parallel market more effectively. In any case, I will follow this dossier carefully and the positive steps that will be taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u45	Minister, we can insist on it and the press too often comes out with it: the purchasing power of Belgian households is under pressure. This is now reflected in the European Commission's prospects. In our country, the promised increase in purchasing power is not going to happen. This is partly because the fall in oil prices and the reduction in personal taxes are overshadowed by a low increase in wages and increases in indirect taxes and electricity prices. The latter also causes an increase in inflation, according to the European Commission's report. Do you want to prioritise this decline in purchasing power and focus on strengthening purchasing power and demand by strengthening competitiveness in a targeted way? However, we are now stuck with a budget deficit that you have not calculated, despite all the savings. How do you propose to do that? Who's gonna believe this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u46	Mr Vanheste, in the context of the tax shift, the government has taken several important measures to support purchasing power. Since the beginning of this year, people who earn the minimum wage have been left with 83 euros per month. By 2019 it will be 146 euros. A total of EUR 1 752 per year. However, they are not the only ones who are making progress. Anyone who earns less than 3 300 euros gross is still the majority of the workers already benefit from a raise of more than 50 euros per month and will receive more than 100 euros net per month by 2019. The self-employed are also involved in the increase in purchasing power measures. Reducing social contributions from 22 % to 20.5 % in 2018, by 0.5 % per year from 2016. We do this by reducing the rate of social contributions on the first tranche of income to EUR 55 576.94. Start-ups will also be able to benefit from this. The rate on the first disk of their income is also reduced to 20.5 % in the first three years. In addition, the purchasing power of people with a replacement income was also considered in view of the tax shift. For example, the financing of the welfare envelope up to 2019 is guaranteed, which benefits all benefit recipients. A social focus of €50 million was also foreseen for raising living wages and the lowest pensions. I would also like to refer to the 2016 economic budget of the Planning Bureau, which shows, and I quote literally: "The development of real disposable family income is supported, as last year, by job creation and at the same time by wage moderation policies. Limited inflation allowed real disposable income to increase by 0.9 % despite the index jump in 2015. The increase in purchasing power would be 0.8 % this year. I'm still quoting the Planning Bureau. A number of measures have a positive purchasing power effect, but this is partly mitigated by, inter alia, the increase in VAT on electricity for domestic use and the increase in other indirect taxes. The purchasing power of households will therefore be improved by the government's measures which promote job creation and reduce personal taxation, even if these measures are partly financed by higher indirect taxes. Mrs Vanheste, you may already know all this, but I have put it together again for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u47	Mr Minister, my question was put a long time ago. I'm sorry I didn't make them until now. It is a pity that it is still so topical. When we ask questions to members of the government, they say that there is never a problem in the air, but the people in the street feel it quite differently. I believe that the Planning Bureau has also said that poverty is rising, but perhaps it was in another chapter. So much for my reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u48	Mrs Jadin, you asked me to turn question 9672 into a written question, but as you are here, you have the opportunity to ask it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u49	Mr President, Mr Minister, although the hypothesis of the disappearance of the Schengen area is fortunately still very unlikely at present, many European countries have nevertheless launched various studies on the economic impact of the re-establishment of border controls and its consequences: a reduction in tourism, the costs of re-establishing customs posts, and new barriers for cross-border workers. This is a very negative picture. Thus, an institute attached to the French government estimated that France would lose at least 80 billion euros between 2016 and 2025 by doing so. Over the same period, Germany's losses range from EUR 70 billion to EUR 235 billion. Belgium, for its part, does not yet appear to have any specific studies on this issue. Mr Minister, have your services already dealt with the question of the economic impact of the disappearance of the Schengen area for our country, the crossroads of Europe and, if so, how much is it estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, my services have not carried out a study on the economic impact of the closure of the Schengen area. Nevertheless, the study of the recently distributed German Bertelsmann Foundation has been examined. This study presents two hypotheses: an optimistic hypothesis and a pessimistic hypothesis. In the best case, the break-up of the Schengen area would cause prices to rise by 1%, or EUR 470 billion over 10 years in the countries of the European Union. In the worst case scenario, the cost would increase by 3% to €1,400 billion over 10 years. The end of the Schengen area would inevitably have an impact on the Belgian economy, which occupies a particular position at the heart of Europe with a national economy extremely connected to its neighbours and a large cross-border traffic. The study of the analysis of the impact on the Belgian economy of the disappearance of the Schengen area would require an assessment, for example, of the cost to the tourism sector, a major source of local income, as well as the cost of border queues and late deliveries due to controls. This research would require additional resources for my services. In addition, the latter finalise a detailed analysis of the impact of level 4 alerts on the Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u51	Mr Minister, I thank you and your department for deconstructing this Bertelsmann study in order to be able to measure the disastrous economic impact on the costs of the disappearance of the Schengen agreements, not to mention the catastrophic consequences this would have for our country's economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u52	Minister, a new online contact platform for all victims of any kind of scam seems to have emerged recently. It will thus facilitate the life of the citizen who, as a victim of a scam, did not always know which service to file a complaint with. Thanks to the contact point, the person will now be offered a solution to this problem or will be referred to the competent contact persons. Minister, are you considering an evaluation of this platform in the near future? If so, when is it programmed? Have any measures been planned by your services to promote this platform and make it known to the general public – I think it is very important to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u53	Mr Minister, you recently announced the creation of a single point of contact to better combat the scams to which our fellow citizens may be subjected. According to information in the press, this online service should receive reports of illegal business practices, misleading price indications, defects in delivery or unwanted telephone calls. This service should also provide advice to individuals. The point of contact is therefore not intended to directly solve the problems before it, but to support the search for a solution, including by indicating to the citizens the most suitable public service to be addressed. This measure is very positive, given the increasingly sophisticated techniques to deceive individuals, especially on the Internet. In order to gain a better understanding of your project, I would like to know which public body will be responsible for the implementation of this single point of contact and precisely what human and financial resources are involved. What volume of case processing is expected for the current year? What measures have already been adopted to promote this scheme to the general public? Are press campaigns retained by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, Mr Calomne, the contact point platform has just been launched on 22 February 2016. Also, a future assessment is premature. Moreover, the platform is designed in such a way that it is an evolving system and that a permanent evaluation can be carried out. The contact point allows consumers and businesses to report not only scams but also practices that challenge their rights. The point of contact is a computer tool to which no exclusive human or financial resources will be reserved for its exploitation. The creation of the contact point was a project launched within the framework of Optifed which made available a budget of 250 000 euros, dedicated to the technical development of the platform. Since there are several partners in the point of contact, I cannot tell you what the volume of cases will be in this way. From its launch until yesterday morning, the meter indicated 1,730 files. At the launch, I obviously gave a press conference. The press release and the social media message were taken up and shared by contact point partners, such as the federal police. The contact point is found on the home page of the SPF Economy website as well as in the latest news on the website belgium.be. It has been included as a main element in the external newsletter of the SPF Economy and, in the coming weeks, messages about specific cases will be regularly posted on social media. Consumers and businesses whose rights have not been respected will receive information from the Contact Center of the SPF Economy about the point of contact and how they can report their problem. Finally, in all external communications on fraud, scams, deception, etc., the SPF Economy will always make explicit reference to the point of contact in order to encourage consumers and businesses to communicate their problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. I see that there is indeed a concern to inform the best and most comprehensively. But it is necessary to wait a little longer so that the tool can show its effectiveness in terms of relays. In the age of digital and all kinds of scams that proliferate on the Internet, it is necessary to allow this tool to become known and develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u56	Minister, thank you for your full answer. You mentioned the figure of 1,730 files; this proves the usefulness of this tool. We're going to give him time to grow. We will come back to you in a few months to know its evolution and, if necessary, suggest improvements. Having said that, I wanted to highlight this positive initiative, which meets a real need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u57	Mr President, for your information, I wish to change my question No 10070 because I am expected to vote in the Committee on the Interior. Minister, I have recently asked your mobility colleague Mrs Galant about license plates for electric bicycles. For several years, more and more citizens have been acquiring an electric bike to facilitate their travel. Some of our countries are particularly hilly, which pushes a lot of Belgians to install an electrical device on their bikes. A low-cost means of travel, it is also very ecological. The problem is that an electric bike is not the other and some are faster. However, this difference is apparently fundamental in the eyes of the European Directive and the new European Regulation, since electric bicycles with assistance exceeding 25 km/h are considered mopeds. As a result, these electric bicycles must be registered, have a plate and have RC car insurance. For electric bicycles of more than 25 km/h already in circulation and which are not yet registered or insured, a regularisation is obviously possible and even strongly recommended. I wanted to come back with you to this specific point of regularization and possible consequences pending this one. Minister, can you tell me what happens when a cyclist on his electric bike that exceeds 25 km/h causes an accident and that he is just waiting for a regularization? Can family insurance be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u58	Mrs Cassart, vehicles subject to the CR motor insurance obligation are motor vehicles. This concept is completely independent of the speed of the vehicle. Self-propelled vehicles are intended for use on the ground and may be actuated by mechanical force. The term "mechanical force" does not refer to muscle strength. This type of bike is subject to RC automobile insurance as it is operated by mechanical force. Electronic assistance starts after a few pedal strokes and stops if the person does not pedal. This bike is not subject to the car insurance obligation. The liability for this type of bicycle can be covered by the family-private life RC insurance. The determining element is pedaling or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u59	I thank the minister for his response. I think that gives some clarification. There are still a lot of questions in the sector about these electric bikes, which are a novelty and have the wind in stern. This can be welcomed, but it is obviously important to inform citizens and insurance companies properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u60	Minister, you know that I am eagerly looking forward to your solution to this lingering dossier. The European Court has identified a number of serious problems and inconsistencies in the Belgian system. If you develop a new legal framework, this will of course also have an impact on the rates that Reprobel will apply if necessary. You are aware of the views of the various groups on this issue. In the meantime, however, I have learned from several companies that Reprobel is insisting on companies, in a rather compelling and assertive way, I express it very nicely and cautiously in order to speed up the renewal of the contracts for the proportional remuneration or the remuneration per copied page and this time to conclude a contract for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. The invoices are also sent out more quickly. On the eve of a new legislation, it is particularly strange to enter into such contracts now on the basis of an old regime that will no longer exist because a new regime is coming. Certainly the duration of the new contracts is very strange. I have a few questions to ask, Minister. Now that the Court has declared the Belgian legislation incompatible, there are questions not only about the future, but also about the present. Indeed, the basis of the implementing acts on which Reprobel bases its operation and which determines the rates has expired. This raises questions as to the validity of the tariffs which Reprobel wishes to impose and the contracts which, according to the companies, it puts forward, rather bindingly. I have two questions for you. Is the audit service of the managing companies of the FPS Economy aware of this way of working? Have there been complaints from companies liable for payment, companies liable for proportionate compensation? Do you consider such a way of working in accordance with the legal mandate assigned to Reprobel and in accordance with the European Directive? The judgment of the Court and the directive are binding on the Belgian authorities and for whom a public contract is carried out in monopoly. What initiatives will you take if necessary to counter illegal actions by Reprobel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u61	Mr Dedecker, we are working on that. If I am not mistaken there will be another IKW around this week. As regards proportionate remuneration, the audit authority is aware that in certain cases Reprobel concludes contracts for several years. These agreements normally have a duration of three years. However, it is part of the contractual freedom of the parties to enter into a one-year contract. Reprobel cannot require an undertaking to enter into a contract relating to proportionate remuneration only for a period of 3 years. The company is always in a position to pay the proportionate fee by means of an annual declaration. This is what Reprobel puts on his website. To date, the audit authority has not received any complaints on this matter. Businesses subject to payment who have a complaint may always contact the audit authority which will investigate the complaint. As you point out in your question, some points of the Belgian reproduction scheme are questioned by the HP judgment. This does not mean, however, that any legal basis for collecting reproduction fees and, in particular, proportionate remuneration would be abolished. As a minister, it is not for me today to comment on whether Reprobel's collection of proportionate compensation is in accordance with its legal mandate and the European directive. However, I believe that caution should be exercised as long as the various points are not clarified. In this respect, the contracting parties may, for example, build in the necessary mechanisms that take into account possible changed circumstances such as, for example, a review clause in the event of legislative changes. Mr Dedecker, I hope that we can speed up this dossier quickly. As I have already indicated, an IKW will take place this week, so that we can submit this file to the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are very careful in your answer, by the way, quite rightly. You also call for some caution. That's a fair call, I think. Certainly in this dossier, the proposal of contracts for the next three years, on the eve of a new arrangement, is not the most cautious way of working. Then I myself express myself very carefully. This is not the only case, by the way. I have tabled another question on the flat-rate payment. There is also new information about this. One may wonder to what extent one is complying with the legal mandate assigned to it. I wonder if people are not going into the grey zone there. Once again, I express myself very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, according to several returns from the field, relayed by the press and by complaints to Test-Achats, many independents newly registered with Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE) have been victims of aggressive openings on the part of Proximedia, a provider of internet marketing tools (websites, Google referencing). The latter also operates under several commercial names (Online, BizBook, Click+, BePoint, BeUp, AFE Benelux) which always bring back to the same umbrella structure. Each time, the procedure seems to be the same: phone calls, doorsteps at home, commercial discourse based on a win-win partnership between emerging companies. Thus, Proximedia presents itself as new to the market and offers its services to new companies in order to build their respective reputations by doing so. In some cases, a service contract is concluded. The latter is quite unfavourable to the self-employed who embarks (quality-price ratio, legal clauses, etc.).). These aggressive business practices clearly overlap with the limits of legality and benefit from the non-experience of these new independents as well as their lack of knowledge in terms of the right of withdrawal – non-existent for the self-employed as opposed to the particular consumers. Indeed, as soon as the provision of services begins (almost immediately since these are Internet-related services), breach of contract is no longer possible. The self-employed person is then charged significant monthly amounts, in comparison with the low quality of the benefits received in exchange. This situation can quickly put in jeopardy the cash flow of an emerging activity or, in the most critical cases, lead to bankruptcy. Minister, are you aware of any complaints about this Proximedia company? If so, was an investigation initiated with the FPS and the inspection concerned? More generally, are you considering taking measures to further protect self-employed and complementary self-employed against these aggressive business practices? Do you think, in this case, to introduce a right of withdrawal or a similar provision for self-employed persons who start their business, on the basis of what already exists for individuals? Indeed, we see that the societies that have just been born are the most fragile.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vanden Burre, the Economic Inspectorate is informed of these complaints and is conducting an investigation into them – which is being carried out on a charge and on a discharge basis. For the time being, it is therefore impossible for me to rule on the merits of the charges. As regards better protection of companies against unfair practices by competing companies, I am considering developing a legal framework. A right of withdrawal under certain conditions is one of the possibilities we are considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of your initiative in favour of a right of withdrawal for the self-employed. We will pay particular attention to this. It would be interesting to know the timing, because that is clearly the kind of provision that my group would be happy to support, subject of course to knowing the text in detail. We will follow closely the follow-up of the ongoing investigation, which is logically burdened and discharged. We realize that many companies feel blurred. Again, the most vulnerable independents are unfortunately targeted. In any case, I take it that you are going to act in this area. We will be extremely attentive to your action. I hope we will be able to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u66	Minister, I have a question about football. The European Championship is coming up. The expectations are high, considering the ranking of the Red Devils on the FIFA list. The matches will be shown on a large screen in many cities and municipalities. The problem is that a UEFA permit is requested to do so. The requirements to be met by event organizers for showing the European Championships differ from those required for showing the World Championships two years ago. The amount to be paid for the screening was determined by factors such as the admission price, the sponsorship, the sale of drinks. However, no restrictions were imposed on the nature of the sponsoring of the event itself. The criteria for the broadcast of the European Championships are very different this time and the sponsorship is a problem. UEFA would have the privilege of refusing a licence if the event was sponsored by a competitor of one of the official sponsors of the European Championship. They interpret that very generously. Both factors make it more difficult for event companies to organise an exhibition of the European Championships. For smaller organisers who depend on sponsor money it becomes almost impossible. Does UEFA have the right to refuse a licence on the basis of competition with its own sponsors? Are organisers of such an event allowed to work with their own sponsors if they compensate UEFA for the maximum visitor capacity? Can UEFA apply for compensation, even if the VRT has already paid the rights? If not, what is the consequence if event organisations still work with their own sponsors? What steps can UEFA take? Do you think it is necessary, in the context outlined above, to develop legislation to clarify the concept of competitor in order to determine the scope for interpretation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the public display of a television broadcast is a new, separate communication to the public of that television broadcast, even though the VRT has paid the rights. This new display therefore requires, in principle, a separate consent at the copyright level, in this case by UEFA. Whether the various practices to which you refer also constitute an abuse of dominant position is, of course, a matter of fact. As an undertaking, UEFA is subject to the rules of competition law. The practices of such an undertaking can only be regarded as a breach of competition on the basis of a thorough analysis leading to such a conclusion. As you know, this falls within the exclusive competence of the Belgian competition authority, which, if necessary, must decide upon the existence of a restrictive competition practice after examination, which must therefore be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u68	No one knows who will win the championship in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u69	Indeed, we will not risk pronosticism. Thank you for that answer, Minister. It's important, of course, because the event is coming. People want to take initiatives to broadcast it on the market square, but now they doubt whether it can be broadcast, because they need to call on sponsors. Perhaps, as Minister for Consumer Affairs, it is not bad to take an initiative in this, so that the various possible organisers of these broadcasts can be made clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u70	Question No 10070 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u71	Minister, the benefits of e-commerce for consumers are great. In peace and quiet, he can, wherever and whenever he wants, view, compare and purchase products. For a very long time there was a defect, namely when the consumer did not give home. This is why more and more parcel services have set up pick-up points. However, there are also problems in this area. For example, there are parcel services that some drivers apparently do not offer at home, but take directly to a pick-up point. Moreover, they often do not leave a message to the consumer. Because the consumer is not aware of the fact that the product ordered by him is waiting for him at the pick-up point, the product is finally delivered back to the sender and, despite the payment, the consumer remains empty-handed. Another problem is that the pick-up point where the package is delivered and where the consumer should go is often farther away than other, closer pick-up points. This could cause logistical problems. All this is also not conducive to consumer confidence in that valuable new business model. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Do you intend to take steps to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u72	Mr Janssen, I have not yet received any signals that there are problems with deliveries, as you have outlined. Nor does the Economic Inspectorate have separate figures in this area. If you have concrete examples of this, I would like to take note of it and draw the necessary consequences. In my opinion, the existing legal rules in this respect provide sufficient guarantees for the consumer, so that no additional measures are needed. I'd like to go over those safeguards. Firstly, at the pre-contractual stage, the undertaking must provide the consumer with a range of information, including the method of delivery. Secondly, if there are restrictions on delivery, this must be indicated through the website at the latest at the beginning of the ordering process. Thirdly, the pre-contractual information is an integral part of the agreement. When the consumer can choose the place and date of delivery, the choices he makes are binding on both parties, including the company. Fourthly, when the company sends goods to the consumer, the risk of loss or damage does not pass on to the consumer until he or a person designated by him receives the goods. The third person may never be the carrier designated by the undertaking. In concrete terms, in the event of a dispute concerning delivery or non-delivery, it will be for the undertaking to provide proof that the consumer has taken possession of the goods. If it is not able to do so, then the decision is that there has been no delivery. The provision of the goods in a place other than the one agreed can never be equal to the possession by the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At large companies such as Cool Blue and bol.com you can enter on the website when you are at home or which pickup point one chooses. It is usually the case of smaller companies where the scheme does not yet apply where problems arise. In that case, the consumer could lodge a complaint with the FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u74	That's fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u75	Question No 10170 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u76	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Brussels economy has suffered from the various security measures that have been taken following the Paris attacks: whether it is the setting up of level 4 during the week of 18-25 November or the cancellation of the fireworks usually organised to celebrate the transition to new year. With hindsight, the first figures start to come out and, according to the FEB, for the fourth quarter 2015, the addition would amount to 352 million, half of which will be borne by Brussels. On 10 March, Comeos submitted more precise figures confirming that the capital's lockdown resulted in a loss of profits estimated at EUR 100 million. However, about 30 million purchases carried over must be deducted from this amount, reducing the total net loss to €70 million. The main sectors affected are horeca, trade, air transportation and events. At the level of the bodies representing these different professional sectors, several requests were made to the public authorities. For the hotel federation, it is urgent - alongside the aid measures for the sector - that a communication campaign be launched in order to restore the Brussels coat of arms abroad. In this regard, the three regional tourism agencies are working on an international campaign. Moreover, Comeos still considers that economic unemployment for the days of forced closure is not sufficient and that VAT or contributions are carried over either. In sum, additional serious initiatives are expected from the federal government. It is in this context that I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm the figures put forward by Comeos or what are your figures in relation to the loss of profits that the Brussels economy would have suffered during the lockdown? What concrete measures are you going to put in place to respond to these different requests, in addition to the postponements already announced? What budget will be allocated by the federal government in support of Brussels' economic sectors? Finally, BECI calls for a genuine recovery plan for Brussels in order to restore the international image of our capital and to attract foreign tourists again. Do you already have any lines of action on this subject? What is in place or what meetings are scheduled on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vanden Burre, I confirm that the threat we experienced in Brussels in November has had an impact on the tourism sector. The figures I received from the FPS Economy confirm this. I assure you that the restoration of Belgium's international image, and in particular that of Brussels, is a continuing task and a priority area for the government. We are taking this effort to heart in our international contacts. Our actions at the WEF in Davos are just one example. Of course, federal authorities must respect the powers of the Regions. Tourism is a regional competence. The question therefore falls within the competence of the Brussels-Capital Region. We hope that the image of Brussels will be better in the future than that of today. I heard there was an attack in Forest right now. We're almost doing the impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u78	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply and for your repeated attention to the image of Belgium and Brussels. To be quite honest, I expected a little more of your answer. In fact, measures had been announced by the federal government in terms of support for small traders, including deferrals of contributions. I see there's nothing more. Otherwise, you would have told me. I understand that tourism is a regional matter, but BECI and the various sectors also called on the federal government to "wet the shirt" and get involved in the economic recovery and image of Brussels. I regret to note that there is nothing very concrete on the table and I will continue to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u79	Mr Vanden Burre, Mr Willy Borsus is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises and the horeca sector. It may be more appropriate to ask him for concrete measures. It is not within my competence to take measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u80	Mr President, this question is a bit of a follow-up to my question just now. We were just talking about the proportional remuneration of Reprobel, but I also have additional information on the flat-rate remuneration. As I said earlier, the European Court raises a number of questions. This applies to a piece for proportional remuneration, for the combination of both, but it applies even more to the flat-rate allowance. There have been serious comments on this. On the basis of those comments, HP, one of the manufacturers liable for the flat-rate fee, stopped paying the flat-rate charge on appliances produced or imported in Belgium, pending either a final decision of the Brussels Appeal Court or an amendment of the law which you are working on, as you have just said. I have heard from several sources that Reprobel, in response to HP's payment strike, has made a call to other actors in the trading chain, such as wholesalers and retailers, to pay that flat-rate charge. Everyone may have thought about HP's decision, but apart from that, we can see that Reprobel's action, which effectively encourages other actors to pay that flat-rate fee, is contrary to current Belgian legislation, regardless of the necessary adjustments from Europe. Article XI.235 of the Economic Law Code provides that compensation shall be paid by the manufacturer, importer or intra-Community purchaser of equipment which is apparently used for the reproduction on paper or similar medium of works on the date on which those equipment is placed on the market in national territory. You may have memorized that phrase by now. Only the manufacturer, the importer or the intra-Community buyer of those devices is therefore liable to pay a fee to Reprobel and not to the other commercial persons who, if appropriate, are registered by Reprobel. That is why I have a number of questions, Minister. Is the supervisory authority of the management companies aware of this way of working? Have there been complaints from non-paying companies? Do you consider such a way of working in accordance with the legal assignment Reprobel was assigned? What initiatives will you take if necessary to counter any illegal actions by Reprobel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u81	Mr Dedecker, the inspection service has been informed of this and has recently received a complaint. This complaint states that pressure is being exerted on non-payment companies. Reprobel's mission is to collect and distribute, inter alia, the reproduction fee in accordance with the legal framework. Wholesalers and retailers, as you indicate, are not considered as contributors of the flat-rate fee in the law or in the Royal Decree. In accordance with Article XI.235, the flat-rate fee shall indeed be paid by the manufacturer, importer or intra-Community purchaser of equipment. If Reprobel wishes to collect the flat-rate compensation from other categories of persons, it does not respect the legal framework. In order to avoid unlawful actions by different parties and in order to avoid market distortions, we are considering the adoption of protective measures. We are also continuing to adapt the legal framework in the light of the HP judgment which you have also quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-15-54-commissie-ic364x.u82	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. While your answer to my previous question excelled in caution, this answer excels in clarity. You confirm that pressure is being exerted on non-payable companies. We cannot, of course, accept that. Reprobel has always stated in this file, both internally and in court cases, that she merely fills out a legal order and applies the law without delay. I note with you today that this is not the case. We see that they themselves are making proposals for new legislation and actively advocating it, but they are also clearly acting against the law. That shows that this isn't right. We agree that creative entrepreneurs are entitled to proper remuneration for their work, both for exclusive rights and for possible exceptions imposed by Europe or by us. That's obvious. This must be done correctly, however, by an organisation which seeks an impeccable record of service in this area and acts in a correct way both in theory, in practice and in imaging and not through these actions, which can almost be described as guerrilla actions. They are unworthy of a proper management company. This undermines the principle of proper compensation for right holders, which we both seek, and undermines the serenity required to arrive at a solution in this dossier together for everyone's sake. Such unilateral actions which are contrary to the law do not help in any way.
