ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u1	Minister, you recently announced the launch of a sustainable food window in collaboration with the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), created for some 157 000 professionals active in the food chain. This window offers them a triple service: individualised support to simplify their lives and meet the requirements of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA), help to reduce waste and produce sustainable, networking and finally, to promote short circuits and local products. Of course, I can only rejoice in this, given that I myself have tabled bills to combat food waste and to strengthen the supporting role of the AFSCA. One of the aims of the Sustainable Food Window is to facilitate the marketing of local products in b2b (business to business), by setting up a network to promote trade and especially short circuits. Since Wallonia is also very active in the promotion of short circuits (the "Agriculture of Wallonia", the "Local Click" for the public authorities), my questions are as follows. Have the Regions been involved in this initiative? How is the partnership with the Regions organised to ensure the effectiveness and complementarity of short circuit promotion tools?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u2	This one-stop shop, launched on 8 October by the UCM, is a private initiative on their part. It includes a safety component of the food chain and aims to facilitate the implementation of the relevant legislation for the operators concerned, in order to help them comply with health requirements and thus deploy their activities under the best possible conditions. In this context, after they contacted me, I put the UCM in touch with the AFSCA so that they could work together to achieve this important objective for the sector. The Agency may, in particular, provide the necessary back office expertise if the UCM so wishes. This collaboration with the AFSCA can also be done within the framework of the future support structure for small producers, set up at my request since the end of last year. These initiatives are therefore complementary and ultimately aim to facilitate as much as possible the economic activity of the sectors in relation to the security of the food chain, and generally in sectors related to the valorisation of our food products. It is in this context that we have produced a joint communication. These projects are of course carried out without prejudice to existing collaborations with other bodies, which exist between the AFSCA and regional bodies, and which will be further enhanced with the implementation of the support structure for small producers. The objectives of all these actors are identical but probably more oriented towards certain types of activities or categories of operators. All the structures that want to mobilize to support popularization, communication, assistance and support to a number of economic actors are, of course, welcome to develop a partnership, with respect for each other's roles, with my administration and with AFSCA in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u3	The minister did not answer either of my two questions, I am disappointed. Have the Regions been involved in this initiative? I didn't hear anything about it. How is the partnership with the Regions organised to ensure the effectiveness and complementarity of short circuit promotion tools? I didn't get an answer. It's a little surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u4	Minister, at the end of October last year, the Dutch Food Centre, a research centre for sustainable and safe food, distributed just over a million stickers with tips on how consumers keep their fruit and vegetables best. Many people still don't know how to keep it in the fridge today. Fruit and vegetables are subject to cold decay. Some species should not be stored in the refrigerator and others should be stored in the fridge. Stickers with a breakdown can help consumers and can be obtained free of charge in different supermarkets in the Netherlands. Sensibilisation contributes to a change in consumer attitudes to deal with food in a more sustainable way and can, for example, be an important measure in the fight against food waste, a priority in the government agreement. Are you aware of this Dutch initiative? What's your vision? Will the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, the BFSA, take further initiatives against food waste by analogy with the Dutch initiative? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u5	Encouraging consumers to adopt a more adapted behavior as the Dutch Food Centre does to prevent food waste is a commendable initiative. The task of this body, which is subsidised by the Dutch Health and Economic Ministers, is to encourage healthy and sustainable nutrition and, in this sense, to carry out campaigns with consumers and schools. However, it is not an equivalent of the BFSA whose primary task remains to ensure the safety of the food chain. Since the fight against food waste is one of the priorities of my policy, the Dutch project will be carefully examined to see what lessons Belgium may draw from it. In cooperation with stakeholders, the Agency has already taken several initiatives aimed at reducing food waste. The Agency has adapted the requirements to be met by food banks on food traceability in order to facilitate their tasks. It also organized training for the staff of these institutions and charities who depend on it for their supply. Following advice from its scientific committee, the BFSA gave the consent to companies in the food sector who do not want to throw away food and want to give it to associations with a social purpose to freeze food on the last day of the final consumption date. The BFSA has supported the development of an internet application for food surpluses, developed by the association Komosie. This association is active in the social non-profit sector, where the environment and social economy intersect. The aim is to answer questions about food safety. In addition, the subject of food waste is regularly discussed in the Trimestriaal sector consultation with the BFSA. The BFSA regularly maintains contact with the Regions in the context of the policy of reducing food loss. The BFSA certainly also informs consumers via its website about how food waste is best avoided. Information leaflets are available to explain the shelf life of foods. These various initiatives are part of a policy that combats food waste, but at the same time promotes social and sustainable food safety. Consumer protection is being raised to a higher level, regardless of its financial resources. There can be no two-speed food safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u6	Minister, I would like to remind you that you want to learn from the initiatives in the Netherlands. I will come back later to see how far you stand with that. You listed all the initiatives on food waste. Can I get this list, too? You mentioned a tax reduction for food banks that donate food. Has there been a study on this? What impact did this initiative have, which was also addressed in the policy paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u7	Minister, I will continue to ask questions until you give me a clear answer. I understand, of course, that this will take some time. I will not go into too much detail about the content of the dossier. Following the refusal of a number of Brussels OCMWFs to share information with security and police forces, we have already debated in plenary the difficult question of the extent to which professional secrecy can play a part and whether OCMWFs do not have a duty to share certain information. There are already exceptions to professional secrecy today, including for security reasons. In practice, however, this does not appear to be equally clear for all OMCWFs. There is such a thing as a reporting obligation. Last time in plenary, you listed all the articles of the law on which everything is based. I think we agree that it is necessary, with respect for the necessary relationship of trust between the customer and the social worker, to have a clearer framework than there is today. It's understandable that you needed the time to do so. You also wanted to discuss this, you said, with your colleague, the Minister of Justice. However, we are calling for urgent action to be taken on this, because the problems in this area do arise today and because we need to find a solution to this as soon as possible. That is why I have the following questions, Minister. Has consultation with your colleague, the Minister of Justice, already started? I also told you last time that he had already made a number of statements on this matter in the Committee on Justice. Perhaps you can better frame it today. Are there no possibilities, within the current legislative framework, for the refusal of OMCWs to provide the necessary information, pending an adjustment, if necessary? What measures do you consider possible in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u8	Mrs van Peel, as I have said here in committee and in plenary, the issue of professional secrecy falls mainly within the competence of my colleague responsible for Justice. In December 2015, during the discussion of his general policy paper, he stated that he did not see any changes to the Criminal Code in order to allow persons who are professionally aware of relevant information that points to radicalism, for example, to share that information with the competent services, without being at risk of being prosecuted for breach of professional secrecy. The information communicated to the members of the Social Welfare Council or to the staff of the OMCW shall form one of the elements of the problem, which is wider in scope. I am sorry, but the discussion on the extremely sensitive dossier is still ongoing. The file is sensitive, on the one hand, because of the security of the country and, on the other hand, because of the need to preserve the confidentiality of the data communicated to OMCWs and to the staff of OMCWs. I will therefore return to the committee at the end of February 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u9	Minister, you apologized for the ongoing consultations. However, I have to apologise because I will, of course, put another question on the same subject. I have one observation to make in your reply, namely the first contact with Minister None about an amendment to the Criminal Code, in order to enable the information to be shared. Is that enough? Should it not rather be chosen to impose an obligation on the OMCW to pass on information in certain cases? Some Brussels OMCWs are reluctant and action should be taken in the public interest. I hope you'll take that thought with you in your consultation. You will hear me again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u10	Minister, some people receiving a living wage from the OCMW are activated through individualised social integration projects. These projects are also mandatory for young people under 25. It is a contract between the OCMW and the wager in which all kinds of things can be agreed, including training to be followed, employment through the OCMW, psychological guidance, possibly health-related programs to get rid of addiction etc. We have included a paragraph on this in the coalition agreement. The government agreement states that the federal government will provide local authorities with new tools for social and social integration, through regulatory adjustment, to develop a community service for wage-earners within the GPMI. The client's initiative is respected as much as possible and aims at progressive social and/or professional reintegration. In this way, the social fabric is strengthened and opportunities are created and social skills developed. I have already asked you a question about this matter in the past. At that time you informed me that there was a study on this subject, which is why I am asking my question again today. The study has now been completed and the results are known. It appears that there is little incentive for the OCMW's to develop a community service within that GPMI. That is, of course, something else. Community service may be part of it, but it is not always compulsory. The study concludes that the results show that the majority of respondents, 54 percent, are in the category of doubt and do not have an extreme or very strong opinion on the subject. The respondents who have expressed their views do not agree with this proposal, i.e. with the community service within the GPMI. A smaller proportion of respondents are in favour. The outspoken, extreme opponents represent a slightly larger group, twice as large as the outspoken supporters. 6 % is in favour. If we count the doubters, we can see that 58 percent of respondents prefer to set up a community service. The results quoted suggest that the proposal as presented to the respondents may benefit from the doubt. With regard to the conditions or modalities of this proposal, the respondents were more explicit. For example, a large majority, 72%, thinks that this community service should not be made compulsory. A small minority of 60% opposes the sanctioning of non-compliance. In general, the OMCWs are open to it, but certainly not if it would become an obligation. The OCMW's are mainly concerned about the added value of adding the community service. Volunteering can and is encouraged now. There are also many forms of subsidised employment by the OCMW in the social economy. The study stresses the importance of quality and fairness. It is important that OMCWs take priority for full-time work. If this is not possible, the employment of people who do not immediately get a job via the regular circuit will first be done through Article 60. When they receive a living wage, they are obliged to accept work. The OMCW's are therefore completely out of order when the Community service would become mandatory and especially if financial sanctions were to be imposed in the event of non-compliance. Many OCMWs have said that this is custom-made and that they know how best to deal with certain clients. Often it is not always a sufficient sanction. In the context of the refugee crisis and the large number of asylum applications, some of the asylum seekers will in future come to the OMCW's for support. That is not the case at the moment, but that will happen as soon as they are recognised. To my previous question, you replied that you would provide the OMCWs with the necessary support to receive and accompany recognised asylum seekers and that recognised asylum seekers are people for whom a project of social integration will be drawn up. There is already a group, but it will grow further in the future. Minister, what is your view on this study? How will you deal with its results? Will you take into account the concerns expressed by the OCMWFs in relation to the Community service, especially as regards whether or not to require and sanction it? Will you take those conclusions into account? Will you plan additional consultations with the OCMW's on the integration of the community service into the GPMI? Finally, you said earlier that you would provide additional support as a result of the refugee crisis but were still looking for the right way. In what way will you further support the OCMWFs in their mission to the refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u11	Mr Minister, I will not repeat the entire coalition agreement, as Mr Lanjri has already done. We are talking about introducing a community service. The framework for this may not yet have been mentioned, it must be developed in cooperation with the regions and it must meet some of the conditions. Thus, the exercise of the Community service, consisting of two half days a week, should not reduce the availability of the labour market. The Community service must also be integrated into a pathway to work, because that must still be the ultimate objective. The regions should also be allowed to suspend long-term jobseekers who refuse to provide a Community service. The same applies to OCMW's clients. In that case, it is the OMCWs that should be allowed to do so. I read that study, of course. The numbers are what they are. It is noted that many OCMWFs are still opposed to this at the moment or at least have questions about it. This is often the case with something new, with change and with legislative changes. It is also sometimes a question of creating the right basis for support, which does not mean that the comments that have been made should not be taken into account. I believe that the Community service can offer several advantages, for example because certain people remain fully involved in the labour market. There is still a group of people for whom social employment is still one step too far. Community service could therefore really be an intermediate solution for them and ensure that they do not become isolated and that their self-esteem increases. What are your next steps now that you have that study? What's your timing? Have you already had discussions with the Regions in the meantime in order to be able to start on the right lines in consultation with them? What do you think about the criticism that emerges from the investigation? Will the measure have sufficient effect if it is merely a non-binding measure and we place the decision whether or not to apply it only with the OMCWFs, without setting a specific framework? Or are you thinking of making the measure mandatory? If so, will that obligation apply to each wager or only to a particular target group? Which target groups are you thinking of? How can the support for the community service be increased in the OMCWs? What action do you intend to take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u12	Minister, there is a first study that you yourself ordered on the operation of the GPMI. The qualitative and quantitative data show that one is sceptical, reluctant or even reluctant to oblige the community service within the GPMI. While recognising the importance of the possibility of volunteering to certain clients, which may lead to greater socialisation, self-confidence and recognition, both respondents and experts stress that the voluntary nature of participation in these activities should be preserved in the form of genuine volunteering and that the legal frameworks for volunteering and employment, including Article 60 contracts, should be respected. It is also pointed out that in the Netherlands too, where the community service has been introduced in a certain way and at a certain level, it is necessary to organise, supervise and frame such voluntary activities so that they, or should be the intention, actually promote the social integration of users. In addition to the study you ordered yourself, I would also like to draw attention to some other studies in the yearbook Poverty. A study by Schepers and Nicaise in 2015 which tests the idea of community service against foreign experience concludes that compulsory volunteering has a virtually zero effect on the reintegration into the labour market and that there may even be negative side effects on other workers and jobseekers. That doesn't seem to be unimportant to me. The yearbook also refers to another study by Thomas Kampen. He has dedicated a doctorate to the Dutch system of community service. He examined the objectives for a mandatory community service, namely empowerment, employability and accountability, and to what extent those objectives were achieved in the Netherlands. His conclusions are very interesting and not unambiguous negative or positive. I will not explain them here, but important for the discussion in Belgium is that the employability, or the fact that people are getting closer to the labour market in this way, was not increased, rather quite the contrary. We must always pay attention to the fact that such forms of community service do not jeopardise real jobs, and one may wonder what remains for which people may still be eligible for community service. Is this about matters that help people to gain experience as part of their journey to work? That is a very important balance. In the Netherlands it even appears that distance from the labour market has been increased earlier for some people. It can also work stigmatizingly if one has to do a useful job because real tasks are also real jobs. That is an important element to take into account. Mr Minister, these scientific data are very interesting and important, in addition to the voice of the OCMWFs who already have a lot of experience in this area. They also voluntarily take steps towards what could be interpreted as a community service. They consider the voluntary nature of guidance to be very important. What is your reaction to, on the one hand, the opinion of the OCMWFs and, on the other hand, the scientific data I have quoted? What do you intend to do with the community service? What further steps will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u13	Minister, I will not repeat myself. Reference has already been made to the report on the community service and its questioning. I do agree with what Mr Van Peel has said about this. If something new is introduced, there will always be a certain fear of cold water. The story of the community service is often considered too negative. From some angles it is seen as a kind of forced labour, but it is absolutely not. The aim must be to strengthen people: people who are in a socially isolated situation today, who are not active, who do not participate in social life, must be able to be involved in society again. However, this should be part of a broader approach. In this respect, the concerns expressed in the report are also correct: OCMWFs should look not only at the community service at local level, but at a whole process of strengthening people to eventually integrate them socially. For one, it begins with the volunteering process in the case of courses or psychological aid for addiction that is needed, with the other one who can take the next step. Then we are already very close to a journey of community service. For those who take a step further, we are already in Article 60 and then in ordinary employment. That chain must be embedded in the social service of the OCMW in order to achieve a nice path of social integration. This includes a commitment for anyone who relies on our resources such as a living wage or support from the OCMW. Actually, this is already the case today, so it is not so revolutionary, but we want to add this instrument to the entire GPMI process to strengthen people. My question is the same as that of other speakers: how do we deal with this? The study has been carried out and the government agreement has included that we will make community service possible. This is also provided for in the coalition agreement at Flemish level. How do we ensure that this is implemented in the near future and that the OMCWs have that additional instrument?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed taken note of the results of the study and of other studies on this subject. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the figures in the study's conclusion, the quantitative component shows that a majority of respondents are more in agreement with the introduction of a community service. However, I note that there is a great reluctance on the part of the OMCW to a community service that places emphasis on sanctions and obligations. The government agreement provides that the government will provide local authorities with new means of social and social integration, by adapting the regulations, to provide a community service for workers from the works within the GPMI. The client's initiative will still be fully respected in accordance with the government agreement. In doing so, a progressive social and/or professional.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This will strengthen the social fabric, create opportunities and develop social skills. As I announced in my policy paper, I am committed to a policy of social and socio-professional activation so that thresholds for full participation in our society are eliminated as much as possible. We are currently analysing how the GPMI can be reformed, taking into account the conclusions of the studies. It is my intention to take maximum account of these conclusions in the drafting of the reform. I will present a full project to the government by mid-February. For the development of a community service for labourers, I naturally plan to consult with the OCMWFs. I have already started this consultation with the associations representing the OMCWFs. I'll also contact the Regions. My goal is to provide a GPMI for every new wager and the possibility of doing so for the current wagers. It is also important to maximise the support of the OCMWFs through, according to my view, an increase of 10% in federal financial support. The study shows the need to simplify the GPMI administratively. However, this belongs to another hatch. As I have already pointed out, we are still analysing how the GPMI can be reformed and simplified, taking into account the outcome of the study. In a few days' time, I will draw up a full proposal, which will of course be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What I mentioned, and what is also stated in the coalition agreement, is that it is important that the expansion of the GPMI should focus on social and professional integration. If that can help, that's good. The same applies to the community service. If it can contribute to or be a stepping stone towards employment and social integration, that is good. However, we must be careful to say that this would replace a full work. After all, it would be wrong for people to do community service for years and not be led at all to a journey outside of the living wage. The regulations in this area must thus work on the temporaryity of the measure. If it happens in a temporary context, as a step to work, then it's fine, but certainly not when it comes to a longer period of time. I am pleased that you have responded positively to my request to involve the OMCWFs more effectively and also to take into account the results of the studies. We will, of course, continue to monitor this matter with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u16	Minister, this issue is affecting a number of powers, which will certainly make consultation with the regions important. Having heard your reply and Mr Lanjri's reply, I can say that I certainly agree that we should be alert to situations where there is no path to work. I am a little concerned about the voluntary nature, because that can also be too non-binding. As chairman of the OMCW and taking into account existing legislation, I believe there are two aspects to this. On the one hand, there is the framework that should be tailored to all types of clients as much as possible. That's where this goes, too. It is about those people who are falling apart today and are therefore unable to get involved in social employment but are capable of doing more than just sitting at home. I am also in favour of the voluntary nature and choice being pushed forward as far as possible. That gives a much greater chance of success within a trajectory. On the other hand, I believe that in some cases there should be a mandatory nature. Unfortunately, it is also a reality that pressure must be exerted on some people to get them out of their cocoon, on a path that they themselves are getting better, let that clearly remain the end goal. This is a fact that we face every day in the OCMW. There is already a clear RMI law that states the obligation to show willingness to work, and it can have consequences if someone fails to comply with it. I also think that, if we have a client for community service that fits in with the story and would be better off but not willingly opt for it, there should be an obligation if necessary. This only benefits the client. I know this is an ideological argument, but I'm confronted with reality every day and I'm sticking to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I do not think it is quite clear. I have the same question as Mrs Van Peel, but from a different angle. As Mrs Van Peel just outlined, the OCMWFs already have an instrument today. It is a fact that one must demonstrate willingness to work. This can be done voluntarily, but if at some point in the aid project it appears that someone does not respond to offers, is constantly late and shows that he does not take his employment seriously, although he has volunteered it, the OMCW can already employ him today through Article 60. This can be done either after fraud or after proving that people are not prepared for work. So that instrument already exists. However, I am sensitive to your statement that this must be done with maximum respect for the client's initiative. That's what you said. I believe that there is already an opportunity to do so. There are OCMWFs that are doing this effectively. I think we should be careful. I do not see what form this can take. It has to be a tailor-made employment, not to suppress another job. To this end, the OCMW already have the necessary tools. I think the concerns in this area are very important. So I do not think your answer is quite clear. Do you really want to make it mandatory? From when do you intend to impose it? From which stage of the guidance course? What is very important to me is the question of what autonomy the aid worker will have to make the assessment. Very important in the work of social assistants and OCMWS, is the coaching relationship and the assessment of the social assistant in collaboration with his team. There are a lot of handles there to support each other. Maybe my reply is limping, but that's because I feel like your answer is limping for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u18	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. I think you're thinking in the right direction. I am also very pleased with the timing you set out. It is very ambitious to come up with something in the coming days. In any case, I have noted that you will be submitting your proposal to the Council of Ministers in mid-February. That seems important to me. I also think it is important that we see a rapid reaction to this in committee. I do have two observations. Mrs Willaert has already outlined the issue quite well. There is already a certain mandatory nature today, in the sense that if a social worker sees that someone is able to make certain commitments to find work, he or she will try to steer the person concerned in that direction. I think an extra tool is offered here. There may be a category that may have psychosocial difficulties or such problems, and that needs to be accompanied first. Once these difficulties are over, we must actually be able to make a proposal ourselves to take up a task. I went to see that myself last year in Rotterdam. That is where we do it in many neighbourhoods and want to generalise it throughout the city. That works very well. That's about some kind of involvement in the union life. That's not about jobs in the classic sector at all, but about helping in the canteen of a sports club, helping in a museum, supervising school. There are a lot of things that can be done to reintegrate socially. The next step must then be effective employment or work, pursuant to Article 60. So it is a positive thing, but it is part of a path which must indeed remain mandatory. If I understood correctly, the government agreed to frame this within the GPMI, which will then be generalised. I am very pleased to hear you say that it is necessary to try to avoid this red tape. There is already an activation pathway for minus 25-year-olds, but if that is extended to the plus 25-year-olds, then many social services of OCMWFs will see that as purely paperwork. That is what we must try to reduce. That paper should become less relevant, but every OCMW in our country should offer an activation pathway for both plus and minus 25-year-olds. I therefore wish you every success, and I hope that the government will follow your thinking trail in mid-February and that we will soon see a draft in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u19	Madam President, certain issues continue to come back. Minister Borsus is pretty much spared from our committee, apart from the oral questions. Can we not take an initiative in this committee on these recurring issues which goes beyond the oral questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u20	You also made a commitment to provide us with studies, evaluations and reports related to your projects, once they were submitted, known and approved by the government at first reading. The ideal would be to block dates according to the different deadlines and to devote one or two meetings to them, then having all the elements. By the end of 2015, it was premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u21	Madam President, after the first reading in the government, I have no problem with that. I want to work transparently. It's a delicate subject. I haven't communicated all the details. There are still many others, including sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u22	Madam President, Minister, if you are aware that this matter will come before the Council of Ministers by mid-February, it may be appropriate to have an exchange of views with you at the end of this month or early February, not only on this subject but also on other issues of social integration. Information may then be requested which does not necessarily have to be submitted in the form of questions. Or would you prefer that the reservations should really be turned into questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u23	That's what we just said. In this committee, we are used to asking ministers when they are available to organise exchanges of views on specific subjects. That is how things are going with the various ministers who come to this committee. In addition, it is advisable to attach specific questions for a thematic exchange so that the minister concerned can prepare finer answers. Before opening a detailed discussion on the government's intentions and the scope of the actions taken, it was agreed that we would wait for the studies to be available and for a first reading within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u25	We're going to set a date with the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u27	There is no need to ask further oral questions to address this topic; this will be done. Question No 7949 by Mrs Rita Gantois is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u28	Minister, the density of pigs and poultry per square kilometre in Belgium is among the highest in the world. As a result, our country is more vulnerable to veterinary problems, particularly with regard to antibiotic resistance. Indeed, it is found that the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine is often too generous or even inappropriate, with the risk of developing antibiotic resistance in animals that can cause resistance or disease in humans. On the other hand, some abuse of consumption is facilitated by the fact that the purchase of antibiotics by farmers is not systematically subject to control by the veterinary authorities. These medicines may therefore, in some cases, come from illegal trafficking. Mr Minister, it is known that antimicrobial resistance controls are carried out by AFSCA, which has undertaken several specific actions, both on its own initiative and in the European context. What are the results of these controls? What other means are being developed to combat antibiotic resistance in farmed animals? Can you give us more details on the illegal trade in antibiotics for animals? How big do you think it is? What is the effectiveness of the means used to combat trafficking? Can you provide us with figures in this regard? Since 2011, AFSCA has been co-financing AMCRA (Antimicrobial Consumption and Resistance in Animal), an organization that provides advice on reducing the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine through preventive measures. Is this partnership still up to date? If so, what annual amount does this participation amount to? In this regard, are you satisfied with the results of this partnership? Finally, would you be in favour of implementing a health plan on farms in order to raise awareness, empower and support farmers in tackling this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u29	Member of Parliament, since 2011, AFSCA has conducted an annual monitoring of Escherichia coli resistance in pigs, calves and young cattle. Since 2012, this monitoring has also been harmonised at European level. In young cattle, resistance levels are lowest. In pigs, resistance to tetracyclines and sulfonamides is mainly observed. However, tetracycline resistance in this animal species decreased in 2014 compared to 2013. In poultry and calves, there has been a general downward trend in resistance and multi-resistance over the past four years for all antibiotics tested, with the exception of gentamicin. However, more than 50% of strains are still multiresistant. The results of meat monitoring are available in the AFSCA Activity Report. They are also available on its website. AFSCA, in conjunction with AFMPS, provides financial support to AMCRA. This funding by the AFSCA amounted to 52,480 euros in 2015. The same amount is foreseen for 2016. I must inform you that I am satisfied with the work done by AMCRA and the results that have been obtained in direct connection with this action. These results are 11.8% reduction between 2011 and 2014. It is my intention to continue this partnership as long as AMCRA responds positively to the mission entrusted to it by the authorities and for which a grant is granted. With regard to your question on the establishment of an operating health plan within the framework of the existing specifications, I should like to inform you that this is one of the actions planned to achieve this reduction. I must also point out that, at the initiative of our Dutch colleagues and under their presidency, a series of work on antibiotics is planned under, and in the context of, the presidency of our Dutch friends. I am available to share with you the analyses and work carried out in this respect also at European level. For the more specific questions on the illegal circuit that you are referring to, I would like to ask you to ask my colleague Maggie De Block, who will be more able to give you details in this respect because, personally, I do not have one. I'll be at your disposal. Other questions have come to my attention on this important issue to which I attach priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u30	Minister, thank you for the quality and completeness of your responses. I am all the more satisfied that, as a member of the Benelux Parliament, you have taken into account the recommendation made to the Benelux Council of Ministers. I am therefore pleased to note that follow-up is being carried out and I can only thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u31	Madam President, Minister, plantlicence, which follows the coming into force of a 2009 directive, is a certificate that ensures that every professional user, distributor or advisor properly handles phyropharmaceuticals and adjuvants. The objective of phytolicence is to keep these people informed of developments related to plant protection, in order to limit the risks of these products to human, animal and environmental health. Phytolicence has been mandatory since 25 November 2015 for all persons who purchase, store or use plant protection products, or adjuvant, for professional use. Until 1 September last, professional experience could be valued, but since that date new applications can only be made on the basis of a recognised diploma or certificate. In the absence of such a document, candidates for phytolicence must participate in the basic training. This training is organised by the Regions. At present, at the level of the Walloon Region, training has not yet been set up. The decree on the latter has not yet been adopted and the budgets are still not allocated to the measure. Minister, do you have any contact with the Regions regarding this training requirement? What exactly is the situation? Do you confirm the information that the Walloon Region is not ready? What about the Flemish Region? How many phytolicences have been granted in Flanders and Wallonia? What are the consequences on the ground? What is happening in practice for a person who wants to obtain phytolicence today, when the training is not yet given? Is an alternative possible? Could you consider granting a phytolicence number on the basis of a certificate of application for training pending the actual delivery of these courses? The questions are quite practical but there is a real demand from the sector. We had also shown common sense when the experience was taken into account. Minister, I would like to hear from you on these various issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u32	Madam President, Minister, pursuant to a European directive, since 25 November 2015, farmers who want to use pesticides must obtain a P2 type plant licence. In Estaimpuis, a border commune (23 km of common borders) with France and with 30% French, which makes it the most French municipality in Belgium, where I act as a mayor, several Belgian farmers have plots in both France and Belgium. However, in order to be able to spray in their fields in France, these farmers should in particular have a Certiphyto, the French equivalent of phytolicence. Mr Minister, it goes without saying that farmers, whom I am very happy to defend, already have a very large workload. Thus, if they had to, as in the example I mentioned, make representations to the French authorities and take training courses in France to obtain a licence that they already have in Belgium in order to be able to continue to spray their French plots, this would soon become problematic. Can you tell us whether agreements with the French authorities have been adopted to ensure that, through equivalence, phytolicences in France are recognised? If not, do you intend to contact your French counterpart in order to have this equivalence recognized? In the meantime, what alternative solutions can be offered to these farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u33	Madam and honourable Members, as you know, I am also replying on behalf of Minister De Block, on the understanding that plant protection products fall primarily within my competence, even if I ensure that I continue to consult with my colleague on this matter. As you rightly raise it, anyone who wishes to buy, sell or use the products in question professionally needs phytolicence since 25 November. The transitional period during which it could be received on the basis of experience originally ended on 31 August 2015. Given the number of late applications, and the many problems the agricultural sector was already facing, I decided to extend it until November 24. Since then, it has been true that phytolicence can only be obtained by persons who can prove that they have the required knowledge through a diploma or after a successful examination. Those who fail to do so can do so again only after completing basic training. As mentioned, it is the Regions and the Communities that are responsible for organising this training. This responsibility has been known and recalled to them for the past four years. Alerted by the delay in the holding of these training courses, I interviewed, through my colleagues, my regional counterparts on this subject during the Interdepartmental Conference Environment which took place at the end of October. According to the information received, basic training is already being organised in Flanders – your colleagues will be able to confirm this – and the first complementary training will begin in November. On the other hand, the Walloon and Brussels regions do not yet offer specific training – and I very much regret it – but they are working on it. I also wrote a letter to my Walloon counterpart René Collin reminding him of this problem which can become harmful to the sector. As a result, a person who does not have an adequate degree and cannot take part in an examination cannot receive phytolicence. In concrete terms, this means that this person cannot buy, sell or use plant protection products professionally. These delays in the organisation of training are therefore a barrier to access to the profession, particularly for sellers. The extension of the transitional period, which I mentioned a few moments ago, has at least reduced the number of people who are or remain awaiting the organisation of these trainings. To date, 72,000 phytolicences have been issued, of which nearly 51,000 have been granted to Dutch-speaking citizens and more than 21,000 to our French-speaking fellow citizens. Your proposal to grant a phytolicence number on the basis of a certificate of application for training would not comply with the regulations which require, among other things, conditions in terms of experience. While I can understand that the AFSCA still shows some flexibility in view of the fact that the interlocutors concerned are victims of the lack of opportunities to put themselves in order, I believe it is urgent that this problem be solved at the level of the federated entities. As regards the problem of frontier farmers who own and operate crops on the other side of the border, my administration, the SPF Santé publique, Sécurité de la chaine alimentaire et Environnement has already contacted the French authorities in order to establish a mutual recognition between plantlicence and its French equivalent Certiphyto. Discussions between the Belgian and French authorities are still under way and we hope to conclude very quickly. The various sectors concerned in Belgium will be informed and consulted on the outcome of this dossier at the meeting of the Phytolicence working group to be held tomorrow, 28 January 2016. A solution is therefore being developed in the very short term. Such mutual recognition is already applicable with our counterparts in the Netherlands. Moreover, pending mutual recognition approved by the Belgian and French authorities, it is not precluded that France may recognise Belgian plantlicence early and temporary, on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u34	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. Decisions have been taken at the federal level. The transitional period is effective and it is now time for the Regions to organise training. I will ask colleagues to question the Walloon Minister to move this issue forward because farmers are being penalized, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. You mentioned the Franco-Belgian aspect and the initiatives taken by your administration and yourself to ensure that this mutual recognition is effective as soon as possible. I emphasize your pragmatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u36	Minister, the latest report of the World Health Organization (WHO) has had the effect of a bomb saying that the consumption of cold meat and red meat promotes cancer. However, we must take this new alarmist with caution and put things into perspective a little bit. Indeed, it should be noted that there are about 34,000 cancer deaths per year worldwide that are attributable to a diet rich in charcuterie. A comparison is made of one million deaths from tobacco-related cancer, 600,000 alcohol-related deaths and 200,000 air pollution deaths. Unfortunately, the agricultural sector, the primary and economic sector, which is already cold, must coexist with a somewhat destructive press in the wake of the many crises. However, it is worth remembering that meat also has health and environmental benefits, as there are proteins, amino acids, zinc, vitamin B12, etc. The whole thing is to be able to vary your diet and ensure that it is balanced. The total elimination of meat would lead to significant deficiencies for the body. It is therefore appropriate to eat it but without abuse, as for most of the food. I think communications like this do not bring much to the sector. Minister, can you give me your position on the WHO report? What are the ways forward to ensure that the agricultural sector does not again suffer from inconvenience as a result of this publication? How can we promote meat consumption among consumers by explaining that meat is part of a healthy and balanced diet and is essential?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u37	I have, of course, the deepest respect for scientific analysis in general, for scientific organisations and for the WHO. I have been very attentive to this communication and to the following communications. WHO describes processed meat as a human carcinogen, which is an extremely strong message. WHO cited canned meat, sausages, salted or smoked meat. Unprocessed red meat (beef, pork, lamb, horse, goat) was classified by the same organization as "potentially carcinogenic". The classification of meat alongside products such as asbestos and other products of this nature has not failed to shock a number of interlocutors, of which I am a member. According to the data reviewed, from more than 800 studies, the WHO explains that every 50 grams of processed meat consumed daily increases the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%. While the risk of colorectal cancer could increase by 17% for every 100 grams of red meat consumed per day. According to information available on the WHO website, colorectal cancer represents a significant mortality rate (0.0302%) in Belgium, according to 2011 statistics. In Belgium, the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé, another very high-level scientific body, which I also respect, indicates that from a quantitative point of view, it is recommended to consume in the order of 300 grams of red meat per week and not to exceed 500 grams per week. A number of websites communicate and illustrate these figures. According to a July 2014 study of the SPF Economy, it turns out that the Belgian has an average consumption of red meat of 678 grams per week. It should be noted that the consumption of red meat in our country has fallen by almost half in 30 years. Therefore, our consumption tends towards the levels I have just mentioned or, in any case, is approaching. According to the SPF Economy, annual consumption of red meat per capita was 35.36 kg in 2013, compared to 40.18 kg in 2005. For example, red meat consumption declined by almost 14 per cent in just eight years. I would also like to point out that WHO sent a communiqué on 29 October following the global media reactions generated by its first publication. In this communication, the WHO states that it does not require people to stop eating processed meat but indicates that reducing or adapting consumption of these products can reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the regular process of meat, there are other positive aspects of meat consumption, as it contains essential nutrients for the body, such as iron, zinc, certain proteins and vitamins B. In addition, in its latest press release, the WHO states that the current state of research does not allow a healthy amount of meat consumption to be determined. This is a position that is nuanced over time, you will observe it. WHO will finally announce that early next year, experts will begin to look more thoroughly at the implications in terms of public health, the latest advances in science and the place of red meat and processed meat in a healthy and balanced diet. I will pay close attention to the findings of these studies, as is the case with most of the studies that I have received on this subject. Finally, I would like to point out that it is of course appropriate, as in many other things, for our speech to be nuanced, to be balanced with elements of all kinds when it comes to consumption, and in particular meat consumption. The promotion of agricultural products is a regional competence, as you know. I did not say that I did not have an opinion on the subject, but I do not think it appropriate to report on it at this stage and in this committee. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of our meat production, which is generally agricultural, of its high quality in many respects, of its very important economic character. I would also like to stress the local and sustainable nature of most of our productions. When assessing consumption, all the elements must be taken into account. A product that crosses half the planet to reach our plate may also have negative environmental elements. In short, you have in front of you a lawyer of our agricultural sectors, of their various productions that I very often observe on the ground, but also a nuanced and offensive analyst on elements of communication of this nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u38	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I fully agree with your analysis when you say that you have full respect for the various studies carried out. Me too. However, communication seems important to me and sometimes causes a lot of damage. We must insist on a balanced diet. Through communication, a message is sent to the population. Care must be taken so as not to sow fear in the population. We must insist strongly on balanced food, a specification and the quality of our food in Belgium. I'll join you in the promotion. It burned me to ask you what you thought. It's a regional competence. I totally agree with you. The sector is worth it. I wanted to stress today that, in a short time, an important communication in this direction can undermine a sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedry's 8271 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u40	Mr Minister, at the beginning of December several newspapers reported disturbing signals in many cities and municipalities because many OCMW councils and the RVA oblige people to stop the training they are undergoing and to get started immediately, if they do not want to lose their unemployment benefit or living wage. A report by the OECD recently showed that 18% of all 25 to 34-year-old Belgians do not have a diploma. We all know that a diploma is essential to have a job. It is logical that, if people do not yet have a diploma, they are trying to receive training to increase their chances in the labour market. This is, of course, countered by threatening people to take away their living wage if they continue their training. That's very illogical. It is very important that people have a degree, so that they get more opportunities in the labour market and find themselves in a job for which they are interested. I understand, of course, that some people sometimes abuse the situation. Indeed, it cannot be the intention to follow one training after another for decades in order not to have to go to work. It doesn't matter whether you get a living wage or a benefit from the RVA in the meantime. Of course, abuse must be tackled, but people must be given the opportunity to obtain a diploma. This is for the benefit of the person concerned, but also of society and the budget of the OCMW. If these people leave for decent work, they will not return to the OCMW after a certain period of time. Minister, have you been aware of these practices, in particular that people have to stop training in order to maintain their living wage? How do you feel about that? How will you deal with such practices? Will you discuss this with the OCMWs? Or will you clarify what can and cannot be done by means of a circular letter? It must be absolutely possible to activate people, we were just talking about it. Activating means taking training for some. Moreover, some OMCWs encourage people to take up training. Other OMCWs argue that one should first do some volunteering or community service. It doesn't matter, as long as it fits into a trajectory to work. I think education is one of them. Can you clarify these matters by means of a circular or consultation letter, so that such practices that put pressure on people to stop their training are stopped immediately? Do you know in which cities and municipalities such practices occur regularly and how many municipalities and people are involved? Do you know, after all, how many people are at risk of losing their living wages or having already lost their education?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u41	Mrs Lanjri, you inform me that certain OCMWFs require individuals to stop their training and immediately look for work to maintain their living wage. I can tell you that I do not agree with such a course of action. For each person entitled to a living wage, the OCMW should seek a long-term solution so that that person can build a sustainable future. If training can offer a more future perspective to the person entitled to a living wage, the OMCW will exempt that person from the requirement of willingness to work in order to enable him to follow the relevant training. The OMCW assesses the exemption autonomously according to the specific circumstances of the file. Once the person concerned has been admitted to a training course, that person may only be obliged to discontinue the training if the OMCW considers that there is a valid reason for doing so. Possible reasons are a lack of commitment and motivation, which can be expressed in a low attendance rate, a low success rate, the fact that a job can offer more future prospects than continuing to follow a particular education and so on. The cessation of training without due cause is therefore not permitted and would be contrary to the human dignity of the person concerned. However, I should like to point out that I am not aware of the specific dossier which gave rise to your question. In view of the above, it is possible or not that there was a valid reason for the cessation of training in that file. As soon as the inspection service or my administration finds that the OCMWFs are obliging to discontinue training without due cause, the necessary steps will be taken to draw the relevant OCMWFs' attention to their obligations. Ma'am, I'm sorry, but the figures you're asking about, among other things, the number of people on the labour market and the regional situation are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u42	Mr Minister, my question referred to the article in De Standaard of 1 December. Unfortunately, it is not just one case that I am aware of. This article dealt with several Flemish secondary schools. The article cites Antwerp, Mechelen and Leuven. It's not a single case, it's a problem. I therefore ask you to contact the adult education centres. Your inspection department needs to clear the case. I will hand over the article to you and I will come back to this matter later to ask you what action will be taken on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u43	Minister, over the past few years, the collaborative economy in our country has been increasing, think of platforms such as Airbnb, Couchsurfing and Über. Meanwhile, not only do we share taxi fares and our sofa, but we also start to share food. In our neighboring countries, initiatives where food is shared such as AirDnD, Air Drink Dine, are very popular. In France, too, it is beginning to manifest itself and to a lesser extent in our country. To sum it up briefly, AirDnD are hobby cooks who prepare a meal and one can eat with those cooks what is cooked. Last December, the newspaper said that some of these hobby cooks in our country were visited by tax inspectors and the BFSA, following complaints apparently lodged with the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. According to the guidelines of the BFSA, hobby cooks must register as operators and comply with the same rules as a caterer or eater, except for hobby cooks who only sell their food five times a year. What is your vision regarding the new phenomenon of eating sharing? How do you feel about that? Do hobby chefs adhere to all hygiene and infrastructure rules, which also apply to caterers and eateries? Do you see any possible exceptions? If so, which one? Should hobby cooks also comply with provisions in the new allergen law? What are the modalities in this respect? How many complaints has the BFSA already received about the sharing economy, i.e. about the hobby cooks? What platforms did these complaints come in through and what was the object of these complaints? If you could give me the evolution of the last two years, that would be very nice. Will the results of future controls also be published on Foodweb? Now there are only regular restaurants on it, but perhaps in the future it is possible to bring the hobby cooks as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u44	Cooks who prepare meals for sale via platforms or via social media are indeed considered operators in the food chain, must also comply with European and national regulations, including allergen legislation, and are also subject to controls. They must therefore have an admission from the BFSA as a caterer or, in case of local consumption, as a dining facility. To clarify, this applies to chefs who offer meals for a fee. The BFSA does not, of course, intend to fish people who share a meal with a neighbour for example out of solidarity. The operators in the hospitality sector are inspected every three years according to the BFSA's control programme. Inspections shall include verification of compliance with hygiene, infrastructure, equipment, self-checking and traceability requirements. The BFSA does not have a breakdown of the figures according to the different presentations. The inspection results of such cooks, like those of other operators in the B2C sector, are also published on Foodweb. In addition, in 2015, specific checks were carried out on such cooks without authorisation in response to complaints. This was done in cooperation with other authorities. Several complaints were received for one of the online platforms in 2015. As a result, five inspections were carried out and a consultation took place between the person responsible for the website, the Economic Inspection and the BFSA. For a similar platform, the BFSA received seven complaints from operators via the FPS Economy in December 2015. The investigation of these complaints is still ongoing. In 2013 and 2014, no complaints were received about such hobby cooks. In addition, targeted audits were carried out together with the FPS Finance at the end of December 2015. The main purpose of these controls was to collect information on the organisation and its working methods. The two cooks visited in that context were informed of their obligations. Two checks were also carried out at the website managers. No measures were taken in this regard. Since such cooks are operators in the food chain, the spaces used for the pursuit of their activities are considered as business premises, even if they are part of the private home. On the basis of the control decision of 22 February 2001, the auditors of the BFSA should be granted access to all premises where food can be found. European legislation already lays down a number of specific requirements for spaces which are mainly used as private homes but where food is regularly prepared for placing on the market. Those requirements must be met. To inform operators about their obligations, a specific page has already been developed by the BFSA on its website. That page contains the necessary information about the registration, admission, legal framework and control of the BFSA. In addition, operators can also use the other resources offered by the BFSA to support them, such as the applicable checklist, the auto-control guides and the quick-start sheets, the training courses and various publications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. In fact, we must ensure that food safety is respected both by the catering industry and by the hobby cooks. Airbnbs are also subject to rules on fire safety and the control of fire safety is a Flemish competence. At the same time, we must be careful not to oppose such new innovative concepts. There are also advantages to it. Airdnb, for example, can also provide added value in combating food waste. Especially in cities that works pretty well. When I hear that Airdnb is threatening to leave our country today, because the rules are too strict and food sharing is almost impossible, there is a problem. We need to consider whether we can adapt the framework to ensure that innovation is not obstructed and that a form of self-regulation is provided for. That is why I would ask you to look more closely at this offer and not place it under the same heading of the catering business. I really believe that this will prevent innovation and reduce the good intentions of such initiatives. Well, that would be a shame, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u46	Mr Minister, you know that our legislation requires the OMCW to ensure that urgent medical assistance is provided, under certain conditions, to people without papers and that a doctor has to certify what is covered by the certificate and that it is accompanied by these words. In June, I asked you a question about this, following the fact that some OCMWFs had a counter-expertise carried out by an inspector. You then referred to the coalition agreement and said that it agreed that this notion of urgent character should be clarified. You also said that the Mediprima project would be further developed and extended to general practitioners and that in the future the Medical and Invalidity Insurance Office would group all costs, i.e. treatment and payment. That is now happening through the OCMW. The OMCW will be reimbursed, but that would happen differently in the future. You stated that, in addition to the administrative handling, the auxiliary cash will also be provided for, if necessary, in control by a medical examiner. This makes a medical counter-expertise unnecessary, you said, and facilitates the work of the OCMW. In addition, at the end of last year, a report was published by the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE) on the reform of access to healthcare for people without legal residence. In that report, the Centre of Knowledge argues for a drastic reform. It proposes, inter alia, that the system be organised more efficiently and effectively. It also suggests that it becomes more uniform, because the application really varies from OCMW to OCMW. For example, the number of refusals varies from 2 to 26 % depending on the OCMW where one arrives. The knowledge centre therefore makes a number of recommendations. It also recommends, inter alia, that the role of OMCs be reduced to the social aspects and that they work on communication, harmonisation and simplification of the procedure. The coalition agreement states that the notion of "urgent character' should be clarified. Is that what happened in the meantime? Is that already round or when will you be round with that? What is the state of play with regard to the development of Mediprima and its extension to the general practitioners? You stated in June 2015 that the sickness and invalidity insurance would provide for the control by an auditor and the payment thereof. Does that apply in the meantime? If not, when will this system become applicable? The knowledge centre states that the role of the OMCW should be reduced to social aspects. You said yourself that the control doctor would be assigned to the auxiliary cash. Can we then assume that this will happen, or is already happening, and that OCMWFs should not do so anymore? What will you do with the findings and conclusions of the recent report of the Centre of Knowledge and the recommendations they make? Will you do it? Which one will you take over and which one won't? The knowledge centre also notes that the number of refusals varies widely, between 2% and 26%. Do you have figures on the number of refusals per province or city? Where are few refusals and where are many?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u47	Minister, I will skip the introduction because Mr Lanjri has already given it. I would like to mention another aspect that has not yet been addressed in Mrs Lanjri's explanation. It is about something that concerns me in the study of the knowledge centre and in the advice given by the Order of Doctors. Both argue that the urgency of the aid should no longer be a criterion. The application would therefore be better done without being sick. It would also be better to consider house visits to be purely optional. With the Order of Doctors, it is literally stated that people who are illegally resident in the country and persons who are in an asylum procedure want to receive medical treatment in the same way. I have a few questions about that. What is the current state of implementation within the coalition agreement? Consultation with the auxiliary cash is important in this. How do you feel about removing this urgency when requesting medical attention? I assume that it is your intention to keep a clear distinction between urgent medical assistance for persons residing illegally in our country, on the one hand, and medical assistance for persons in an asylum procedure, on the other. I think that this alignment can also have disastrous consequences and give a strange signal. I do not want to question the urgent medical assistance in itself, although there is certainly some refinement possible. As Mr Lanjri also pointed out, the difference in approach between the various OCMWFs is too large. There is a need for clarification. How do you view house visits in the context of social research? I continue to think that is necessary. This is made optional in the KCE report, but I continue to believe that this is necessary in order to determine the competence. The report also states that there is no evidence that medical tourism would show, but there are no figures that show that this does not exist. I do not know where you stand or how you are trying to prevent this from happening within your approach to modernising it. Finally, if you want to participate fully in the KCE report, I fear that you will create positive discrimination for a group of legal persons, and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u48	In order to make progress in clarifying the urgency provided for in the coalition agreement, I have been in contact with various institutions such as the Order of Doctors and Fedasil. Consultations are taking place between my administration and the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance on the certificate of urgency required to determine the urgency of medical assistance and for the monitoring of Mediprima. The purpose of these consultations is to provide a better legal framework, in accordance with the coalition agreement. As regards Mediprima and its extension to the general practitioners, an impact analysis is currently being completed. The aim is to examine various slopes, using already existing or planned procedures for electronic invoicing by general practitioners. The impact analysis will be finalised by the end of February. In March 2016, several working groups would be set up to prepare the need analysis. On the basis of this need analysis, the necessary developments will begin. I am also consulting with the Minister for Health on this. You will notice that I am already in dialogue with the relevant bodies, as recommended in the report of the Centre of Knowledge, which I have noted with interest. I naturally intend to continue this cooperation with the other institutions and actors involved in this dossier. The various opinions contained in the report require further analysis, together with these partners. For example, with regard to the implementation of the "urgent' aspect, this was given the advice of the Order of Doctors already provided by the legislator in the law of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers. Well, I think it's worth looking into. In reply to Mrs Lanjri's question on the role of the OMCW, I would like to stress that the OMCW must always carry out a social investigation with the aim of checking the need for the aid applicant. As far as urgent medical care is concerned, the OMCW should also always examine this need. It's gonna stay that way. The urgency of medical attention can only be assessed by a physician. As regards the house visits, I refer to the circular of 14 March 2014 on the minimum conditions for social research. The home visit will be made at the opening of the social file. Thereafter, it shall be done whenever the OMCW deems it necessary, but at least once a year. With regard to applications for medical assistance invoices, the circular states that it belongs to the OCMW to assess the necessity and effectiveness of a home visit. That seems logical and coherent to me. Medical tourism cannot, of course, be tolerated. In a limited number of cases, a stay for medical reasons is allowed under the type C visa for medical treatment. If the question comes from someone with that visa, the OCMW will check the state of need, the guarantee and the existence or absence of a health insurance. However, if the social investigation shows that an aid applicant came to our country for purely medical reasons and does not have that visa, the medical costs cannot be charged to the State. The statistics of the emergency medical assistance provided in recent years will be supplied to you in annex. I have some copies for you. As regards Mrs Lanjri's question on refusals, it is true that, of course, the State intervenes only in the case of reimbursement of the urgent medical costs on which the OMCW has taken a positive decision. So I do not have statistical data on the number of refusal decisions taken in the context of urgent medical care. I have the figures from 2010 to 2015 by Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u49	You didn't answer the question about the medical examiner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u50	Your third question about control by the auxiliary cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u51	You said in your previous reply that this task would be taken over by the auxiliary cash. The auxiliary cash would then possibly also provide for an audit doctor and it would therefore no longer be a task for the OCMW. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u52	I do not yet have a definitive answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u53	Minister, I understand you're saying you're still working on this. I would, of course, like to give you the necessary time to put this on the spot, because it is important that this is done properly. However, we have been at it for some time. My first question dates from June. Meanwhile, there's that report. Minister, I hope that you will really continue to work on this further. In the Reception Act, there is an effective definition of "urgent medical assistance'. I remember that the aspect refers, of course, to everything that is necessary. That's just a doctor's assessment. It is not a matter of urgency in the sense that it must be done now, but of everything that is necessary. A doctor will have to certify that. I note that it is not fully worked out, not even for the auxiliary cash itself. When do you expect the new regime to apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u55	I will certainly give you some time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u56	Well, I guess I'll do the same. Thank you for your answer, Minister, which certainly included positive things, such as the initiatives you want to take to reduce the burden on OMCWs and to take a shortcut. I think that is absolutely a good thing. Of course, I also follow the reasoning that it is the doctor, and only the doctor, who can give a ruling on the urgent or necessary nature. The doctor, of course, needs a clear framework, including a legal framework, within which he has to work. What is "Pulse-infested' pebble? It means necessary, whatever one can interpret as non-adjustable. People keep going rounds. That is something that needs to be clarified. I remain of the opinion that there should be a difference between the help that can be given to people who are illegally resident in the country and those who are legally present here. Based on the KCE report and what the Order of Doctors is now saying, it could be hollowed out in such a way that there would be no difference between them. I would like to warn you very strongly about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u57	Question No 8559 by Mrs Poncelet was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u58	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns food inspection, in particular the inspection of mussels. Some people are awake from that. It's a question in the lighter genre, they should be there. It is the flat préféré of many compatriots. It is a delicate product: cultivation, transport, storage, everything must be done according to proper procedures to ensure freshness and quality. Quality checks are therefore necessary. These were also carried out in the period November-December. During eight weeks a special action was taken by all provincial control units to check the microbiological quality of mussels. A total of 110 samples of unprepared mussels were taken in the same number of catering shops spread across the country. What is the result of these checks? You can provide the answer in writing, broken down by province and city centre. Exactly what was checked for? Based on what parameters did the control take place? Were there ultimately guidelines given to the hotels that scored unfavorably in order to improve their results in the future? What follow-up is there? In other words, are controls again being carried out in cases where the results were unfavourable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for this important question. The checks carried out under this action were specifically aimed at determining the microbial quality of the mussels supplied. During each sampling, the shelf life, storage conditions and hygiene were checked. In this special action 110 samples of mussels were taken at catering shops for microbiological analysis. The samples were evenly distributed across the different provinces. The selection of the catering shops for the sampling of mussels took place at random. The indicator germ Escherichia coli was identified in three of the 110 samples. The presence of this germ may indicate, among other things, a less good quality of the water in which the mussels were grown. The non-compliant samples were established in the provinces of West Flanders (1) and Namur (2). No infringements concerning hygiene, storage conditions or shelf life were detected in the hospitality stores visited. The parties mussels with a non-compliant result for Escherichia coli were in all cases from the Netherlands. The Dutch authorities were informed through the rapid alert system of the European Commission for further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u60	Minister, it is very reassuring that only three germs were detected, two in Wallonia and one in Flanders. It is good that the control was carried out because mussels is an important product in Belgium. So this is only positive news and it is important for consumers to know it. Do you also know the breakdown of controls by province?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u61	I can't give you that information right now, but I can get them from my records.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u62	Minister, in your reply to my question of October 2015, you expressed the hope that you would only need a few weeks to submit the preliminary draft law to the government. The text would then be sent to this committee together with the studies you have obtained on the integration of OCMWFs and municipalities. During the discussion of your policy paper at the beginning of December, I understand that you would be proposing the bill this month or next month. I understand that this is a legally complex issue and that the legislative text requires proper preparation. For the local authorities, time is running out, especially in Flanders, where the mindset is already there. The federal government agreement expresses the ambition to make integration possible. As you know, the Flemish Region wants to introduce this generally by the start of the next local legislature, so that new governments can get started immediately to develop an integrated social policy locally and to further strengthen that social policy. What's the status? When is the bill coming to the committee? It is an opportunity to organise a separate discussion around this draft law. Will the Regions be able to implement and require the integration of OMCWs and municipalities, if appropriate, in general? This is especially important for Flanders. The coalition agreement states that there will be no obligation at federal level. Will the Region be given the opportunity to impose it in a legal way itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u63	Mrs van Peel, first of all I would like to repeat that I want to stick strictly to the government agreement so that organic integration of the municipal authorities and the OCMW is possible. In that respect, I would like to emphasise the term "possibly'. This means that the new federal law will not provide for the powers of the Regions to require integration with respect to local authorities. There is currently no consensus in the government on the dossier, in particular on whether to use a law adopted by a simple majority or a law adopted by a special majority. As I have already explained, the situation of the facilities municipalities will be taken into account in a specific way. I hope to reach a consensus among the majority parties on the dossier as soon as possible. Once an agreement has been reached by the Council of Ministers at first reading, the studies will be communicated to the Committee on Health so that it has all the elements necessary for the examination of this difficult dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u64	I am sorry for my incessantness, Minister, but I feel that this is also a strong local situation. I hope that a consensus can be found very quickly. I don't know if I understood correctly. Are you saying that it is not legally possible to give the Regions the opportunity to impose it? It is not the case that it cannot be in accordance with the government agreement if it is made possible at the federal level and it is not made a general obligation, but that there may be a shift to make it compulsory. In my view, that is completely in line with the coalition agreement. But you're legally detained there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u66	I hope, Minister, that you will at least get out of this. Again, it is absolutely not intended that the federal level should decide what would oblige the Regions to do things that they do not want to do. It would be nice if our Region could do what it wants to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u68	Mr Minister, I do not really know whether your answer from a moment or a moment ago also answers this new question, even though the previous question was on a different subject. The study on the GPMI has now been completed. I believe that we have just heard some of those results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u69	Initially, the commission had grouped all the questions together. Next, the firm said the questions had to be asked separately, which is why we left them. But perhaps the answer is no different from the one that was transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u70	My question is, among other things, which target groups you will choose, but you will not answer, because in three weeks you will have something...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u71	Did not some of the elements come up in your first question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u72	Minister, have I understood correctly that the intention is to offer every new wager a GPMI? For the older labourers there is the possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u73	It's a proposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u74	I stress that a GPMI is a contract between two parties, sometimes forgotten. The GPMI is not only aimed at the living wager, but it is also a commitment of the OCMW to accompany the person concerned. That's very important. We sometimes see that the GPMI is a standard contract. Due to the high administrative pressure, it is not always carefully prepared. As a result, the point is lost, because it is just an individualized project. Administrative simplification would therefore be a good thing. That is also the question of the OCMWFs. It must not, of course, rule out the fact that it is still an individualised project and that it is not enough to sign it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u75	I have just expressed all my concern when it comes to choosing between an optional or mandatory measure and to which target groups the GPMI will apply. You cannot answer that now, as you will not be presenting a proposal for another three weeks. I propose that the matter be discussed thoroughly in committee as soon as the proposal is presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u76	Mr Minister, on 12 January 2016, the circular was published regarding the stay abroad for persons on a living wage, following the change in the law introduced in the Programme Act of 26 December 2015. In our view, the fact that an overall initiative was taken to tighten up policy in this area is a good thing. The issue is now to put this into practice. The circular also refers to social research as a tool for an OCMW to collect the necessary information about the number of weeks the person entitled to live abroad. If a survivor does not inform the OCMW, the weeks will still be charged and the OCMW may also provide for a penalty, namely the suspension of the payment of the living wage. It also provides for the possibility to make exceptions if the OMCW considers that this is justified by circumstances. We believe that this is right, because there are always such circumstances to think of. In what way will it be ensured that this new measure will also be effectively applied by all OMCW debt instruments? Is its application monitored in any way? Should an OCMW also justify the decision to invoke an exception to the administration or the POD? Is it the responsibility of each OMCW separately how the social research in this area is completed? Or do you think you should streamline this more in order to achieve a more uniform approach? For example, what about conducting house visits in this context or the number of times a client is expected to visit the OCMW? It is important to encourage those entitled to a living wage to return to the labour market. This is indeed only possible when people are also available. Is there going to be an effective registration system to keep an easy view of the person's availability?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u77	Firstly, the provision that each person entitled to a living wage must inform the competent OCMW of any stay of one week or more abroad, and this before his departure, was indeed inserted by the Programme Act of 15 December 2015 into the Law of 26 May 2002 on the Right to Social Integration. This provision entered into force on 9 January 2016, which obliges the OCMWFs to comply with this law. One of the conditions for a person to have access to the right to social integration is that the person concerned must be prepared for work. If a person often stays abroad, questions can be asked about the person's willingness to work. Given that work still offers the best guarantee of participation in social life, staying abroad would make such integration difficult. Raising awareness of the need for the OMCW to be notified of a stay of one week or more abroad does not only benefit its integration process, but also raises awareness of its obligations towards the OCMW. In addition, the OMCW is therefore supported in conducting sound social research. The Inspectorate of the Social Integration PPS will monitor the implementation of this measure and the decisions of the OCMW, even if an exception is granted. In short, we will check and I will follow up the statistics on this matter. As far as your second question is concerned, social research is a central issue in the context of quality assistance by the OMCW. On the basis of social research, the OMCW can assess the needs of the stakeholders and assess autonomously what are the most appropriate means to meet these needs. In order to provide a clear framework on the elements to be covered by a social investigation, two KBBRs and one circular letter have already been drawn up. I've got that information right here. For example, the OCMW will carry out a house visit whenever it deems it necessary. Moreover, the OMCW is obliged to inform the beneficiary of the fact that any stay abroad that exceeds a period of one week or more must be reported to the OCMW prior to departure. This is also part of social research. As far as your third question is concerned, the social research gives the OMCW an overall picture of the situation of the aid applicant. All elements relating to this person and his relationship with the OCMW, including departure abroad, shall be kept in the social file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u78	Mr Minister, I believe that this legislative amendment deserves our support, but it remains something that in practice will not be evident to the OCMWFs. In practice, I often find myself wrangled with it. To what extent should we respect the autonomy of the OCMWFs? This is very important as well as the customization of clients. However, we note that the culture within the OCMWs may vary considerably in the control of such matters. There are OCMW debt holders who ask their clients to visit each month, even though they are not in a job path at the time. Yet they have to show that they have applied, not by mail, but by coming to the site themselves. There are also OCMWFs who deal with this much more loosely and do the social research at the beginning of the file. Sometimes they wait even for a year to visit again. In this latter approach, it is difficult to check whether or not someone is fair in relation to the declaration of their stay abroad. I am not saying that I have a ready answer to that, but I am concerned. Further monitoring of this remains necessary. This is a measure that is necessary and sends the right signal. To be continued, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u79	Today, Minister, a living wager who is or is going to work in recognized vocational training can receive a wage or salary. Up to a certain amount, the socio-professional exemption, the income is not deducted from the living wage. I think that is a very correct principle, but in reality questions do arise. The government agreement states that the system of socio-professional exemption will be optimised on the basis of an evaluation in order to promote professional integration and avoid the fall in unemployment, which should indeed be addressed. When discussing your policy paper, you said you would like to make proposals to make the socio-professional exemption more efficient. You also referred to the study recently completed by the University of Antwerp, which contains recommendations to optimise the instrument and transform it into a more efficient activation measure. Mr. Secretary, could you be more specific? What recommendations of the study would you like to take with you? What is your further plan of action? What's the timing? Today, little use is made of the socio-professional exemption, inter alia because additional aid measures expire soon, giving the customer little or no benefit from the exemption. There is always a tension: on the one hand, it is necessary to keep an eye on the fall in unemployment, on the other hand, the customer with a living wage often has little benefit from the fact that the system is being used, because the additional support that exists in some OCMWs is in danger of falling. How do you intend to make the socio-professional exemption more attractive, taking into account those two principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u80	The study makes recommendations in different areas, such as: maintaining the limitation over time of the system, allowing for justified individual exceptions; developing a calculation tool that will allow to simulate in a simple and intuitive way the living wage remaining after the SPI exemption; developing a training or documentation kit that explains more about the method of calculation of the living wage remaining after the SPI exemption from concrete examples; and changing the methods of calculation of the living wage remaining after the SPI exemption in order to eliminate existing inactivity and poverty traps. With regard to the reform of socio-professional integration, I announced in my policy paper that the focus of my policy will be on removing the inactivity trap. Furthermore, my policy is also aimed at reducing the administrative burden in order to allow a wider application of the SPI exemption. At the moment, in cooperation with my administration and the OCMW associations, I am fully preparing the reform of the GPMI. Once the preparation has been completed, I will begin discussions on the reform of the socio-professional exemption. I will decide what measures I will take after I have been able to consult them. So that's the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u81	I look forward to the sequel. The social-professional exemption is now failing its purpose. The tool is based on a healthy principle. He can help to gradually guide someone into the labour market. I hope your proposal can revive the system. It is important, on the one hand, to limit the system in time, otherwise it will be stuck, and that cannot be the intention. On the other hand, it would be no harm to consider with sufficient attention to the unemployment trap whether or not the exemption can be increased. That would certainly offer more opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u82	Mr President, it is estimated that between 60% and 70% of refugees applying for asylum in the context of the current refugee crisis will be recognised. Many of them will, as long as they have not found a job or have no or insufficient own resources, turn to the OCMW for a living wage. As usual, the OCMWFs will stick their hands out of their hands to guide the recognised refugees as best they can and in different ways towards integration into our society. It is evidence of a forward-looking and responsible OMCW policy to take this situation into account in the multiannual budget. For example, the Ghent OCMW adjusted its multiannual budget on the basis of a simulation and allocated EUR 3.2 million for the period 2016-2018 to support and support those refugees. This also means, of course, that the OMCW has had to cut money at other expenditure items here and there. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal of uncertainty in terms of revenue, in particular about compensation, including by the federal government, more specifically by the PPS Social Integration. This, of course, makes it difficult for local authorities to implement sound and forward-looking financial policies. A large part of the planned costs goes to the staff. The Ghent OCMW will employ 21 additional staff due to the influx of refugees. These are 14 social assistants, 4.5 path counselors and 2.5 main social workers. You acknowledged the additional work for the OCMWFs before. However, it remains very unclear for the individual OCMWFs how you want to compensate the OCMWFs. The VVSG is also a asking party, to quickly clarify matters. It calls for additional support in staff costs, with a substantial increase per file: either for all files on living wages and equivalent living wages or at least for the new dossiers in the light of the asylum crisis. In general, the VVSG also remains of course asking for better funding of the OCMW's for all living wage clients, so that they can offer even better guidance. Finally, may I come back to the not very reassuring comment made by the Court of Auditors on the estimate for 2016 in your general expenditure budget, where the limited increase in the appropriation in 2016 amounts to EUR 30 million, I quote the Court of Auditors? This presupposes, on the one hand, a full allocation of the additional appropriation to the asylum crisis and, on the other hand, a reduction in the number of existing wage-earners. We already know that the latter is not true in the facts. After all, there are just more people knocking on the door of the OCMW, including ordinary labourers. There have never been as many as they are now. Firstly, when and in what way do you intend to give greater clarity to individual OMCs regarding the federal compensations for their planned adjusted expenditure in the context of the refugee crisis? Secondly, what are your views on the request of the VVSG and OCMWFs to significantly increase the support for personnel costs per file? Thirdly, what about the indirect costs of housing, medical care or any projects that OCMW will set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u83	Madam President, Minister, a plan for the distribution of asylum seekers has been deployed in our country's 589 communes. Five thousand accommodation places are to be created during this year. This first phase will involve a great deal of CPAS. A second step will have to be anticipated by the federal government. I want to talk about when migrants will be granted refugee status. From then on, they will be granted a right of residence. However, if they do not have the means of subsistence, they will turn to the CPAS to obtain the right to social integration. Of course, they play a decisive role in the accommodation, reception and integration of asylum seekers. According to projections prepared by the Federation of Walloon CPAS, they are expected to accommodate 31,000 people between July 2015 and December 2015. The rate of recognition of applications is in the order of 65%. Minister, where are these people going to go when they leave the reception centres? What will be the impact on housing (help with rental guarantee, installation premium, etc.)?( )? Of course, it will be the CPAS who will have to take care of it. This is a material issue, but it must also be noted that language learning, the recognition of diplomas, vocational integration and the follow-up to integration. Again, these are missions assigned to the CPAS. That is why, through their federations, they have asked you for additional resources to deal with these foreseeable extra costs. However, for the time being, the federal government would still not have responded to them. Have you met the CPAS federations? Did you inform them of any additional resources that would be made available in light of the new issues? Some form of predictability is indispensable. Therefore, if you are announcing a general amount, it must be distributed according to the number of persons involved in the recognition of an application. Indeed, it is important to know whether that amount will be sufficient. I hope you can answer my questions, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Social Integration PPS pays out 100 percent of living wages and equivalent living wages to the beneficiaries for a period of five years, through the OCMWFs. I am well aware of the additional costs for the OCMW's of accompanying recognised refugees and recognised persons with subsidiary protection. In this context, I have had contacts with the CPAS federations, which I meet very regularly, on all the matters that concern them and concern us, and of course also on this issue. Contacts will continue, but my proposal is to cover indirect costs up to 10% of the sums paid in the context of the repayments of integration income or equivalents granted to recognized refugees who are covered by CPAS. That would be a completely new provision. Does this cover all costs of CPAS? It is obviously difficult to estimate and it is very variable depending on the situation, but this additional reimbursement would be an unprecedented step. Discussions on this subject are ongoing within the government, including the use of the provision to cover asylum-related issues, the asylum crisis and its consequences. We were able to have a real consultation with the CPAS, on the allocation plan and other issues, even if we do not always agree. Some will consider this to be insufficient, but we are working in full transparency and with the willingness to cooperate. With regard to the figures, the current rates of recognition are only slightly below 65%. We need to talk about 62%. I will allow myself to communicate to the CPAS federations an updated projection that takes into account, according to our services, the projection in terms of the processing time of the files and the increase in the number of files that will be processed in 2016. We will thus have a sufficiently precise estimate, knowing that there are unknown parameters: the location of the recognised people and the evolution of the geopolitical situation. I note that among those seeking asylum at home, the percentage of people from Afghanistan is significant. Syria, Iraq and parts of Africa are often referred to. I draw attention to the fact that there is also an important Afghan community among the candidates for recognition as a political refugee in our country. I really want to study these figures in depth. I already have projections but I want to validate them so that they are robust. Within a maximum of 15 days, I will be able to communicate them to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u85	Minister, it is good that we have an updated project. In Ghent there is already a large Afghan community. A city like Ghent attracts more people proportionally. That is the case, even if there is a dispersal plan. After their recognition, people are allowed to move freely and move more often to the cities. If I understand correctly, 10% of the indirect costs will be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u86	This is therefore 10% of the amount given for integration income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u87	So 100 % is refunded, plus 10% of the living wage, which is clearer. It will have to be considered whether this will be sufficient and what will be the account of individual OMCWs in this area, because we must not forget that other measures have been taken to increase the work of the OMCWs at the moment. As I said in a previous question, there have never been so many people on a living wage, for example, because of the more stringent measures on eligibility benefits, and this has now been added. It is a positive measure, but it will have to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The purpose of the CPAS is not to "get fat" on the back of the federal state, you know that. However, people should not face double sentences. The first is the aid to be provided, which they are aware of and accept. But the second would be to be penalized because a series of costs are not taken into account, which could give rise to additional communal costs in order to be able to equip CPAS with the means they need. Indeed, the CPAS group in my electoral district shows that there are currently particularly substantial budgetary increases due to the influx of refugees. I understand that there will probably be a bonus, 10% in addition to the repayment of the equivalent financial assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u90	Yeah, but that could be the case. We are ready to support you in this initiative. And, if that's not enough, the reserve is there. However, of course I hope that the whole can be enough to meet our duties. Because we have a legal obligation to intervene, but it is also our duty to help these people. I have already heard from others that in Afghanistan there are far fewer problems than in Syria. I would like to clarify the geopolitical situation in Afghanistan: there are attacks every day and the Taliban are encircling Kabul. Perhaps that is why Afghans are fleeing their country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u91	To avoid any ambiguity, I quoted Afghanistan precisely as a link. It is not because the situation would change in Syria and Iraq that the Afghan group would be concerned. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u92	Minister, there was one of these two questions, on the health aspect, addressed to Minister De Block, and one, on the aspects of agriculture and food safety, addressed to you. I will await the answers to see whether or not I will re-apply the question to Minister De Block. In animal antibiotic use there was a slight decrease at first, but in recent years we have seen an increase again. This slight decline was, moreover, undervalued, especially in comparison with the results in the neighbouring countries. In fact, we held hearings on this matter in the Benelux Council. I was really impressed with the results of, for example, the Netherlands. We really can't get along with that. You are working, together with Minister De Block, on the review of the Royal Decree of 23 May 2000, which also regulates the use of critically important antibiotics. You are using this change to create a framework for achieving the objectives of the AMCRA in the 2020 plan, including by means of a covenant between the government and the sectors concerned, i.e. half less antibiotic use, 75% less critical antibiotic use and half less medicated food by 2017. Is it true that there is a change to the RB to increase the stock period for post-treatment with antibiotics, and also other veterinary medicinal products, from five days to three weeks? I think that's kind of weird. Why would you increase that period? If you refer in your reply to the package leaflet of some medicines, which states that a treatment duration may last up to three weeks, I would like to counter you immediately and say that it is absolutely appropriate that the veterinarian should check every five days when a treatment lasts for three weeks. I talked to the vets. They confirm that if an agent does not work after a few weeks, it is unlikely to work after three weeks of use. Do you think it is justified that farmers, who are still not veterinarians, should have a three-week stock of antibiotics? Do you not believe that this will undermine the objectives of AMCRA and the spirit of the covenant? Which of the parties involved, Mr Minister, or the Minister for Health, the veterinarians, the pharmaceutical sector or the livestock farmers, is exactly asking you to increase that period from five days to three weeks? I know from the various partners I have spoken to that they are not asking for this. So I would like to know who is asking for this. I would like to know for each individual individual who is in favour of this. Then I would like to talk about the critical antibiotics. According to the KB, these should only be used in certain cases, but also by a farmer from his stock for two months and even without steel extraction if this is not possible or in urgent cases. However, in the latter case only by the veterinarian. Do you think it is justified for farmers to continue to use critical antibiotics? What the hell is the logic of that? Do you understand what critical antibiotics mean in human medicine? [[It's with that in mind that I'm asking the question.]] Do you think it is possible that a life-saving treatment in humans would stop working because of the uninhibited use of critical antibiotics in livestock farming? You really don't think these two back gates will undermine the covenant? Which interested parties are specifically asking for this? Is that you, Minister, or is it the Minister of Health? Or is it the vets, the pharmaceutical sector or the cattle farmers? Has the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Order of Veterinarians and of the Agricultural Council been received on this matter? What exactly does it say? Will this advice be taken into account for a change or will it end up in the slide again? My last question is a bit separate from the rest, but also has to do with the KB. The original reason for the revision was actually that the European authorities did not accept the exceptions concerning the registration of medicinal products by livestock farmers during the so-called risk period. I understand that the RB will provide for a new exception, but for young animals, especially calves and piglets. What's the logic of that? Do you think that the European authorities will agree to this exception, knowing that the previous one was not accepted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u93	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the draft royal decree in question has indeed come to the end of the consultation period with the sector organisations, farmers and veterinarians, as well as with the representatives of the regional councils of the Order of Veterinarians, some of whom are members of the Supreme Court. This consultation was launched in the first half of 2015, even before the text itself was drawn up, in order to define the principles to be introduced. This was taken into account in the final design at this stage. It represents a consensus between all parties, supported by the three administrations concerned. The fight against antibiotic resistance was a very important guide. The draft contains unpublished provisions for Belgium with a view to combating antibiotic resistance. In this context, consider the obligation to transmit the data on the use of antibiotics in some livestock farms and the conditions for limiting the use of critically important antibiotics. These legal provisions go hand in hand with measures to be taken on a voluntary basis. The principle and its objectives will be incorporated into a convention on which consultations will be held between the parties involved, my fellow minister and myself. The reduction targets are those of the AMCRA. At the end of December 2015, KB's design started its course of consultations with the National Agricultural Council, the Supreme Council of the Order of Veterinarians, the Finance Inspectorate, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Agricultural Policy and so on. The current proposal would allow the veterinarian to prescribe or provide medicines for the treatment period he considers necessary, but for a maximum of three weeks. That provision is stricter than European legislation which does not define a limit. It seems to me to be a good balance between the responsibility of the veterinarians who are the only ones able to judge the required duration of treatment, and the possible abuses if no limit had been set. Animal keepers will be allowed to possess critically important antibiotics as part of the two-month veterinary guidance period, i.e. as at present, but only if the initial diagnosis of their veterinarian and the associated analyses show that the classical antibiotics are not effective, i.e. that the identified bacteria is resistant. It is the same general condition that is imposed on veterinarians for treatment using these antibiotics. In the event of urgency, if he or she deems it necessary, and for each animal individually, the veterinarian shall administer a critically important antibiotic pending the outcome of the analysis of the sample. These are conditions which are far more restrictive than the current ones on critical antibiotics. A few days ago, I received the advice of the National Agricultural Council and the Supreme Council of the Order of Veterinarians. These are currently being analysed by my services. Finally, a derogation will continue to be provided for the entry of the treatment in the register on the farm for piglets and calves under one month of age. This possibility follows the details of Belgian livestock farming, which requires more individually adapted treatments in the youngest animals. The compulsory registration of these cases was considered disproportionate in relation to the objective pursued. In short, I can say that this new legislation as well as the future convention will involve extraction with a view to reducing antibiotic use and the resistance to antibiotics directly linked to it. Nevertheless, an evaluation is planned about one year after the entry into force of these provisions, in particular on the basis of the data available to us on the use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic323x.u94	Minister, I am afraid we should not wait for the results of the evaluation after one year. After all, if this KB comes in this form, I will give you already on a sheet that there will be no reduction in antibiotic use or in the use of critical antibiotics. I am really surprised that you are proposing a five-day shift to three weeks as a tightening-up towards Europe. Why is this used as a reference point? In our country, we are seeing an unacceptable increase. In the Netherlands such things cannot be tolerated and there is a decline. I would reflect more on the Netherlands than on European standards. It is true that a criterion is linked to the critical antibiotics, namely a sample reduction. By creating a loophole through urgency, we all know that the veterinary surgeons will be put under pressure to prescribe and apply the derogation. I'll give you that too on a platter. Why not wait for the results of sampling? In a hospital it is also appropriate to prescribe generic antibiotics while waiting for the results, but never critical antibiotics. One always waits for a monster to take advantage of such means. It is irresponsible for things to change in livestock farming. You state yourself that registration is not complete. So I have my doubts about this too. I assume that Europe will make the necessary comments on the exceptions.
