ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the response was given to environmental actors who wished to bring proceedings against the FPS Environment's refusal to give access to environmental information, that this board of appeal was no longer operational, as the government had not yet renewed the mandates of its members. The Royal Decree of 14 May 2012 which had appointed the members of the Appeals Board effectively ceased to apply since 27 December 2015. It is therefore not possible to follow up on the appeals brought by these different associations. How do you explain this non-appointment of the new members of the Federal Appeals Board? What is the status of the government in the procedures to deal with it? How long will these procedures be put in place? Is it acceptable – and in my opinion it is not – that no provision has been made to ensure the transition at the end of the terms of office of the members of this commission and to ensure compliance with the law which allows these remedies through this specific body?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u2	Dear colleague, the Royal Order appointing the members of the Federal Board of Appeal for Access to Environmental Information was signed by Minister Jambon and myself. The royal decree is at the Royal Palace. It is signed and will be published Friday. In the meantime, there will be an oath. We'll be on April 15th. The renewal of the terms of office was to be made before the end of December 2015 and this period of parenthesis generated, between 27 December 2015 and 15 April 2016, a kind of vacancy, which did not allow any appeals to be filed. I am not aware of any appeals that should have been filed. My administration will take steps to prevent this situation from recurring in 2020, so that the continuity of State services and the Act of 5 August 2006 on public access to environmental information are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Mr Jambon had responded to my colleague, Mr Nollet, more than a month ago that the situation was resolved. However, that was not the case. This may be explained by the transitional period between its signature and yours. I will check on April 15th that this is going well as indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u4	I'll ask my collaborator to send you a little message!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u5	Thank you. Indeed, it is important to ensure the transition. Perhaps it is appropriate to amend the legislation to provide that in the event of non-reappointment on time, the former commissioners will continue to operate. You say the renewable members will be. Will there be others that will, for example, be appointed with a call for applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u6	What do you mean by that? One or two members will be reappointed. New people will complete the framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u7	Therefore, a call for applications will have to be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u8	It has been done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u9	The call for applications has been made! The only thing left was the appointment. And the royal decree will validate the appointment, so the effective entry into office!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u10	And my collaborator will warn you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u11	Minister in October 2014, the European Council adopted a new framework for climate and energy by 2030. I'm not teaching you anything. The European Council set three main targets for 2030: 1- reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% from 1990 levels; 2- increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 27%; 3- improve energy efficiency by at least 27%. At the sector level not included in the emissions trading system (agriculture, buildings, transport), the European target for 2030 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30%. This objective applies to the European Union as a whole. It should be distributed among each Member State. This sharing of effort is the subject of long and difficult negotiations. The European Commission conducted a public consultation on this subject between March 2015 and June 2015. In this negotiation, it is important for each Member State to take a fair share of the effort. I would like to know where we are in the negotiations between Member States on the sharing of the 2030 target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in sectors not included in the emissions trading system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u12	We look forward to the European Commission's legislative proposal on this matter. The European Commission shall consult the Member States. This legislative response is expected to be published this summer, probably around July. The proposal will build on the conclusions of the October 2014 European Council, which sets out the methodology for allocating the European objective among Member States. This methodology provides for a distribution based mainly on the GDP per capita factor, as was the case for the 2020 target, with a correction based on the cost-efficiency criteria for countries with GDP per capita above the European average, as is the case for Belgium. We attach great importance to this criterion. We will be careful to ensure that this correction is effectively and properly implemented. In this respect, I was able, at a bilateral meeting with Commissioner Cañete, to defend the Belgian position. It is in this context that Commissioner Cañete visits the Member States. It will also be essential to ensure the environmental integrity of the proposal from three points of view. Any surplus of reduction quotas for the period 2013-2020 must be prevented from weakening the target by 2030. The 2021-2030 trajectory must reflect effective reductions and cannot begin with an artificially generous objective. Finally in the discussion on the integration of the sector, the famous Loulou-CF, i.e. the ability to trap carbon... What is the carbon sink?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u13	It's a mechanism that captures carbon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u14	That's right. Within the 2030 framework, therefore, environmental integrity will have to be taken into account. Moreover, Belgium has always defended the adoption of a European target potentially exceeding 40% reduction by 2030, as part of an international agreement. Following the success of COP21 and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement, the European contribution should be reviewed in the context of this Agreement. The European roadmap for a low-carbon and competitive economy by 2050, which was published in 2011, must therefore be reassessed in the light of this agreement and on the basis of the new data available. As recent analysis by the Federal Planning Office suggests, the adoption of particularly ambitious objectives in the buildings and transport sector is likely to boost investment in our economies and, hence, production and employment, not to mention many advantages, including energy efficiency, improved air quality, health and mobility, to name but a few examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive, well-structured and forward-looking response. We have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u16	Minister, like you, I like to follow joint files that don't go fast enough for me. A little over a year ago, I asked you about the necessary establishment of a climate centre of excellence for Belgium. As you recognized at the time, there is a real need for access to objective, consistent and reliable climate information in order to better understand and understand future risks, as a strong knowledge base is essential to support efforts to combat climate change and to guide decision-making. It is clear that a climate centre of excellence could fulfil this role by providing a sound scientific basis for supporting climate policies, informing the various economic or institutional actors and valuing the expertise available, particularly at international level, as is already the case in France, Great Britain or Austria, for example. In your reply, you pointed out that one of the 34 measures proposed in the draft federal plan "Adaptation to climate change" was a federal centre of expertise for climate change, and I quote you, "to have it adopted as soon as possible". You also informed me that a preparatory study for the establishment of this centre, carried out on the initiative of the SPF Scientific Policy, was being finalized. Finally, this draft centre of excellence received the support of the majority of Members during the discussions on the draft resolution on COP21. Minister, can you give us an update on the progress made in setting up a climate centre of excellence for Belgium? Have you obtained the conclusions of the SPF Science Policy study? What are they? Finally, on what horizon can we expect the creation of this climate centre of excellence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u17	Mr Senesael, you are right to follow your agenda and make a reminder, all the more so because, as I am, I too want to move things forward, but they do not always go as fast as I would like. For the time being, according to the information available to me, the preparatory study conducted by the Science Policy FPS has not yet been completed. Nevertheless, I will give you the elements that obviously stem from what is found in the texts of this study and which, in my view, should govern the possible creation of a centre of excellence on climate. It is also a political aspect that must not be overlooked. First of all, it is necessary to define which functions could be carried out by such a centre, which are complementary to the functions already performed by the various existing institutions. It is not a question of creating an additional structure. I guess you'll agree with me. I am in favour of a reflection within the government on this and, more broadly, on the Belgian climate policy landscape and on ways to improve governance. You know that climate policy is largely regionalised and that, in doing so, one of the difficulties is to operate the different entities on the basis of the same objectives. Recent experience has shown us that there are gaps in this area. You followed the negotiations on burden sharing. You have asked me a number of questions about this. It is now necessary to optimise and strengthen our decision-making structures in the field of energy and climate policy. One of the functions of this centre could be the networking of research institutions active in the field of climate change in Belgium. Such networking would allow the establishment of a multidisciplinary reference structure capable of identifying priority areas for research, of valuing the expertise available and of providing climate services to public and private organisations that need it. Another function of the Centre could be to act as an interface between experts from these scientific institutions and representatives of the authorities, in order to inform the participants in the discussions on the broad guidelines of climate policy on adaptation and mitigation. This would therefore support the decision. These two types of functions are already at least partially part of the core missions of various institutions. For example, the Royal Meteorological Institute already provides a series of "climate services". Bodies such as the Federal Economic Development Council, the National Climate Commission, the CONCERE Group, the CCFIE, the CELINE Interregional Cell, the Federal Climate Change Service and the Energy DG, as well as their counterparts at regional level, are institutions that bring together expertise in the field and/or provide spaces for reflection on energy and climate policy or an interface between different actors in this policy. The priority must therefore be to make optimal use of what already exists, to ensure that a centre of excellence is set up which must be envisaged in a logic of complementarity and reinforcement of these structures and not redundancy in relation to them. The preparatory study could provide relevant elements in this regard. However, for the time being, my administration and I are not kept informed of the findings of this study. That's why I asked my co-worker to find out where she is. Indeed, the answer given to me earlier suggested that I could have had the conclusions more quickly. For more information on this subject, I also invite you, as I am going to do myself, to contact my colleague in charge of scientific policy, Mrs Elke Sleurs. Once the reflection on the possible functions of a climate centre of excellence has been carried out, it will obviously be easier to position oneself as to the appropriateness of setting it up. The question of timing is necessarily premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Perhaps I will be less positive than on the first question. I regret that the study is not finalized – I suppose it is also your case. I also regret that you are less enthusiastic than the last time since you say that setting up the centre is only an eventuality. On the other hand, I agree with most of the guidelines that you are advocating. When you talk about the break-up of responsibilities between different services, it may not be the ideal way of governance. After the results of the study, perhaps we should consider, as you say, avoiding redundancy, but I do not agree with you when you talk about complementarity. I think this would be an opportunity to harmonise what exists. We would have a more positive and positive look than if we were to see in all the institutions dealing with the climate. If we want, like you, climate policy to be truly supportive, the centre of excellence – subject, of course, to the results of the study – could be a positive factor to have a forward-looking look at the results obtained at COP21.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u19	I tend to agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u20	Minister, at the beginning of December 2015, the federal and regional governments reached a political agreement on the distribution of the climate targets to be achieved by our country under the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020. Of course, this political agreement must now be legally embodied in a cooperation agreement. This work of transposing the climate agreement into legal texts must be carried out within the National Climate Commission, which you are currently chairing if my information is correct. Secondly, this cooperation agreement will have to go before the Conciliation Committee and the parliamentary assemblies. So we are talking about a process that lasts months, during which time must not be wasted. Minister, what is the status of the co-operation agreement process? What points of disagreement still need to be resolved at the political level? In your opinion, when will this cooperation agreement be presented to the Conciliation Committee? On climate finance, however, the political agreement provides that the federal government will inject EUR 25 million per year. You have already indicated that this contribution will come from the federal share of ETS revenues. You also pointed out that, if it turns out that the EUR 25 million has not been reached in a year, the missing part will be financed from the development cooperation budget. In this context, I would like to know what the budget estimates for 2016 are and the source of the $25 million that the federal government is to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u21	Mr President, thank you for your interest in this matter. In accordance with the request of the Consultation Committee of 23 December 2015, the National Climate Commission has, as appropriate, prepared a draft cooperation agreement on the sharing of Belgium's climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020, in consultation with the CONCERE Group. In concrete terms, the National Climate Commission established, on 18 January – so we did not drag – a burden sharing working group to translate the parties' commitments into a cooperation agreement. You remember that this agreement was won on 4 December 2015 and that it contains the principles, terms, conditions and outlines to be set out in this agreement. In addition, this agreement will have to include all related modalities of implementation and political responsibilities. This includes, inter alia, a system for the annual monitoring and verification of compliance with commitments and compliance. This burden sharing working group is composed of four lawyers nominated by each party. They are each assisted by two experts from the Environment and Energy Administration respectively. They met eight times between February 2 and March 7. They forwarded their draft cooperation agreement to the members of the National Climate Commission on 21 March. Discussions will now continue at the political level, first within each entity and then at an inter-federal meeting. For the federal entity in which we are working, any points of disagreement should be the subject of political arbitration and should then be seen in inter-federal working groups before being forwarded to the National Climate Commission in the form of options in the draft agreement. For the time being, we will have two federal working groups to look at this text in fifteen days' time. As we work, the Regions do the same. We will then organize together one or more inter-federal working groups, that will depend, before arriving at the National Climate Commission. It takes a while, but it's complicated. With regard to your question on international financing, I would remind you that the political agreement on burden sharing of 4 December provides that the federal contribution to the fight against global warming at the international level is in the order of 25 million euros. This contribution was not known during the preparation of the 2016 budget. We have, it is true, had budgetary control but it is a little further in 2016 that we will set and put this amount in the budget, which is already acquired at the federal level since, as I explained, the ETS revenues are centralized in an account managed and held at the level of the CREG. As far as the federal government is concerned in the distribution of SSTs between the various levels of power, you will recall that the agreement of 4 December for burden sharing provides for 10% for the federal government and then 9.5%, which out of an amount that had been estimated – since it is money already returned – at 326 million euros, gives us almost 50 million for two years. Obviously after that, we will implement the precaution we have taken for federal funding to work with Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response, which provides an opportunity to take stock of the situation. I also see that there is a willingness to move forward on the basis of the starting dates and the results achieved so far. I also note that even if the $25 million is not yet entered, it will be included in the 2016 budget this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u23	Minister, scientists are seeing an unprecedented decline in our regions in the native salamander and triton populations. An Asian fungus, Bsal, is the cause of this loss of biodiversity. This mushroom would have arrived in our countries by importing salamanders from Asia. In early February, you asked your administration to develop a ban on the importation of Asian salamanders in order to prevent this pathogenic fungus from spreading even further in Belgium. You have also announced that consultations are taking place with the Regions and at European level. Madam Minister, it is important to protect the biodiversity of our regions, and I would therefore like to ask you for an update on this matter. Has your administration provided its legal analysis of an Asian salamander ban measure? What is the result of the various consultations at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u24	Mr President, thank you for your question. The legal and scientific analysis, which is not simple, to establish a ban on the importation of certain exotic salamanders is currently under way with my administration. Contacts have been made with Switzerland and the United States, two countries that have taken indirect or direct measures to ban imports of exotic salamanders. The Environment DG of the European Commission has also been contacted. The Commission will shortly launch a study to analyse the legal avenues for action at EU level in the context of existing environmental regulations, including CITES. A measure that we could take now, that is, before 2017, does not seem to be possible at European level. Therefore, a national measure, even a transitional measure, could have an added value. Banning measures at the federal level alone, however, will not solve the problem, either at Belgian or European level. As the pathogen is already present at regional level, on 16 February last I asked my regional counterparts, through the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment, to set up a working group as soon as possible, to be led by my administration, with a view to working on this issue at Belgian level, including on the measures to be taken on the ground, which fall within the competence of the Regions. My colleagues, regional ministers of the environment, voted positively on this proposal on Monday, February 29, 2016, the deadline for the interdepartmental procedure. My administration organised a first working meeting on 14 March, during which the modalities for drawing up a Belgian action plan against this pathogen were discussed. The second meeting of this group will be held in early May. A draft plan should be ready for submission at the beginning of the next semester for adoption at the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment. At European level, I will ask, on behalf of Belgium, that this issue be included on the agenda of the next meeting of the Environment Council on 6 June 2016, so that my European colleagues can be informed of the problem and possibly take actions similar to those planned in Belgium, pending possible more homogeneous action at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive response, announcing well-respected deadlines and interest at the level of the Regions and Europe. Like you, I think that Belgium must get involved, but it will not solve the problem on its own. And I thank you in particular for having asked to include this theme, which is of particular interest to me, on the agenda of the next Conference of European Environment Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u26	Minister, section 6 of the Act of May 5, 1997, states that a Federal Sustainable Development Plan is passed twelve months after a new government is in place. After adoption by the Council of Ministers, the draft plan must also be sent for advice to the Regions, the Legislative Chambers and the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. The Plan is also subject to public consultation. I have already asked you about this in December and you have told me that negotiations are still under way at the level of ministerial offices. Minister, you have been in place for 16 months now and this plan is still not adopted contrary to the statutory requirement. I would therefore like to know what are the causes of this blockage, if there is a blockage. When will this new plan be available and how will you consult the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u27	As with you, time seems long. I'd like it to move faster. My intention is always to try to submit this plan as soon as possible to the Council of Ministers. But as you know, any dossier submitted to the Council of Ministers is first referred to working groups, which examine it, deepen it, challenge it. It is very difficult to move forward quickly in a subject that everyone can share, in which everyone wants to give his or her way of seeing things. I have to find out. The same goes for burden sharing. You stressed that having a deadline like the Paris Conference was an additional driving force. Here, we have a deadline laid down in the law and I would like to see progress on the outcome of the prior consultations and the work we are doing in these working groups so that we can finally table this Plan on the table of the Council of Ministers, so that it can be adopted and its implementation can be initiated in practice as soon as possible. But as I said to you, it's a vast program, a vast subject. There is not necessarily a blockage or sterile controversy, but everyone has their own idea and wants to defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u28	Thank you, Madam Minister. We are no more advanced than in December. I'll come back to you with this question when I get back to school if it hasn't been settled yet. I think there is a necessary transversality, indeed, but at some point it takes a deadline. Otherwise, we will come to the end of the legislature without a federal sustainable development plan. However, it is a matter of particular interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u29	Question No 10208 by Mrs An Capoen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u30	Minister, trade in wild plant and animal species around the world is an important and lucrative activity, estimated at several billion euros per year. If not monitored or regulated, it may threaten the survival of these species in the wild. One of the tools to regulate this trade is the CITES Convention, to which Belgium has been a party since 1984. For 2015, it was recently reported that 237 controls had been carried out by FPS Public Health CITES Cell inspectors, of which nearly 67% were positive. Madam Minister, given the figures, we can consider that a strengthening of controls would be appropriate. Are you considering strengthening these controls? By what means? With what means? Have you set any numerical targets in this regard? On what basis? At the end of September 2016, the 17th CITES Conference of the Parties will take place in South Africa. How will Belgium be represented there? What messages will be conveyed by our representatives? Finally, you said you were preparing a plan to combat the wildlife crime, adding that protecting the environment and endangered species was one of your priorities. When can we hope for this plan you're talking about? What concrete achievements have been made to meet your priorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u31	Mr President, it is true that a strengthening of the CITES inspection, and by extending the whole of the environmental inspection, is essential. This isn't the first time I've said it. As you know, a request has been made for the recruitment of eight new inspectors to strengthen the environmental inspection service, including a reinforcement for CITES controls, but also for the control of invasive alien species, for the monitoring of the implementation of the European Timber Regulation and for controls related to our legislation on chemicals and product standards. In addition, we plan broad cooperation with customs for the control of CITES legislation, which is defined in the protocol between the two administrations. With regard to the Delegation of Belgium at the COP, its composition has not yet been set. It will in any case include representatives of the CITES cell and my firm. At present, we do not know exactly what proposals will be put on the table. The deadline for the submission of proposals to be discussed at the COP is 27 April. It is therefore not possible at this time to provide a detailed answer to this question. However, in general, Belgium will advocate for sustainable trade and, in the absence of other means, for severe measures towards countries that do not comply with the rules imposed. On 26 February, the European Commission launched its European Action Plan against Wildlife Trafficking. This plan includes ambitious action points, many of which are to be implemented by the Member States. These actions also go beyond the environmental issue because there are clear links in this area between sustainable development, foreign affairs, justice and the interior. My intention is to set up a multidisciplinary task force to define Belgian priorities in order to draw up a federal plan to combat environmental crime incorporating elements of the European plan as well as specific elements, such as the marking of pre-convention ivory, measures to combat the illegal timber trade and other forthcoming elements. In terms of content, my priority will be to pay more attention to the problem of wildlife trafficking, to raise awareness on the subject, in particular by means of a communication on seizures and by supporting and collaborating on the submission of proposals for additional protection of species for which Belgium and the European Union are the preferred market areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic378x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the will you have shown. I already asked you about the illegal timber trade. I note that the eight inspectors you mentioned are in the process of being recruited. It's a good thing for the different materials you process that the inspection service can work to comply with your injunctions.
