ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, you come back from the first mission carried out in collaboration with your colleague from Development Cooperation in Burkina Faso and Guinea, two countries that returned to the list of priority countries in May 2015. Several business leaders also accompanied you. Your mission appears to be a "hybrid" mission, involving Cooperation and Foreign Trade. So, Mr. Secretary of State, could you, first of all, take stock of this mission for your expertise and your various contacts and initiatives in this context? Have the federated entities been consulted in the organisation of such a mission format? Can you tell us which companies took part in the mission and on what basis they were selected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u2	Mr Bellens and Mr Claerhout have apologized. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have found that communication between the Regions and the Federal State is insufficient as far as missions abroad are concerned. That is why I have sent a letter to Minister-President Geert Bourgeois, Secretary of State Cécile Jodogne and Vice-President Jean-Claude Marcourt with the aim of developing a methodology for the correct and timely exchange of information on the foreign missions of each of the parties. This methodology was discussed in a working group of the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Trade. It was agreed that once all foreign missions were known, all federal and regional policy makers would discuss them first and then share the information with all interested parties. The mission I undertook with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo in Guinea and Burkina Faso was a great success. This was the first time such a joint mission had taken place. This allowed me to see the possible rapprochements between development cooperation and external trade. So we can talk about a very positive assessment. In 2013, the Ebola virus plunged both countries back into poverty. Now that the epidemic is over, the West African economy should restart, with the participation of Belgium and Belgian companies. Brussels Airlines is a known value. Brussels Airlines is a fixed value in Guinea, but also in Liberia and Sierra Leone, because it was the only European airline that continued to fly on these three countries during the Ebola crisis. In this way, it has prevented these countries from ending up in total isolation. Thanks to Brussels Airlines, Belgium enjoys an excellent reputation in these countries, something that our companies can also benefit from. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the fact that Brussels Airlines is the only Western airline that has maintained its flights to the countries affected by the virus has made it possible to establish a special relationship with Guinea. In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Cooperation, Alexander De Croo, decided to include Guinea and Burkina Faso as partner countries for Belgian development cooperation. This is why an exploratory mission has been set up with the aim of consolidating the political and economic links between Belgium and these countries, establishing relations government to government and business to government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u4	We were therefore able to meet the Presidents of Guinea and Burkina Faso and the most influential members of their Governments. I am convinced that the development of the poorest countries will also be achieved through their integration into international trade. Companies investing in those countries and trading with those countries allow the local economy to develop. This is how job creation is done, the government can collect taxes and prosperity is created. There are opportunities in these countries for our companies as well. In Guinea and Burkina Faso, for example, our companies active in the development of population registers and identification were able to display their know-how at the highest level in order to help these countries develop their state apparatus. There are also opportunities for port-related activities in Guinea, as well as for our dredging companies. I was therefore delighted that the instrument of technical assistance in the framework of Finexpo was recently approved by the Council of Ministers. This instrument focuses on the provision of services that contribute to technology and knowledge transfer in the framework of investment projects and, in this way, to the sustainability of our projects. The projects themselves must be located in a developing country and can benefit from untied funding, or from commercial funding, as is the case in Guinea and Burkina Faso. The customer must also be a public institution. Expenditure on these grants can only be made within the budgetary area at the disposal of Finexpo. As a follow-up to the transaction, it is important to recall that it was a pre-mission for the export sector. Relations between these two countries and Belgium have been established so that a business-to-business economic mission can be successful in the future. All the companies that came forward spontaneously and asked to take part in this mission were able to do so. The following companies participated: Brussels Airlines, which was the chaperone of this mission, the Port of Antwerp, Bia Overseas, Zetes, DEME, GlaxoSmithKline Vaccines and SAIT. In Burkina Faso, we also visited Durabilis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u5	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I have asked you four written questions about the role of Delcredere in our country's arms exports. Your answers showed that Delcredere guarantees arms exports to countries such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Pakistan and to other countries that are a source of instability in the region, that violate human rights, that are involved in conflicts with neighbouring countries, or that use violence against their own people. The debate on arms exports to the Middle East, for example to Saudi Arabia, has been discussed in the media. Politicians of the majority at federal level have made it clear that we need to think about the role that our country plays there. There was an explicit appeal from Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters to stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia. The Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, also suggested that these arms exports should be re-evaluated. We all know that arms exports are largely a regional competence. However, the federal level does have a number of levers. Delcredere's insurance is one of them. As we all know, you are competent to do so. So my question is: do you follow the words? With your limited competence, will you ensure that arms exports to questionable countries in the Middle East, such as Saudi Arabia, are made less easy by stopping Delcredere's insurance? What measures have you taken in this respect? What will you do to ensure that such arms exports are no longer facilitated and financed by Delcredere? What was the total amount of arms exports insured by Delcredere in 2015? In your answer to one of my questions, you gave me the amount of EUR 558 million, from 1 January to November 2015. So there's still a month missing. I'm gonna try again to get numbers. Can you give me a full overview of the dossiers requested in 2013, 2014 and 2015 relating to the export of arms, ammunition, equipment for military use or law enforcement and the related technology? I would like those figures to be ranked by country of destination and by type of material, for each grant or refusal of the application, if the application is refused, also the reason for the refusal, by financial value of the application, by applicant and by region where the applicant is located.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u7	Secretary of State, in the newspaper De Standaard of 19 February, you stated that you wanted to discuss in the Chamber the role played by the Ducroire in arms exports, but also of Belgian ammunition and defence technologies to problematic countries from a geopolitical point of view and of non-respect for human rights. We know the major role played by the Regions in arms exports to these countries, in particular Saudi Arabia, but the federal, beyond the Ducroire, also plays a role through the Defence attachés – I recently discussed this with Mr Reynders – and in the assurance given by the public institution Ducroire to exports of goods and weapons to these problematic countries. As you did not wish to answer the written questions asked in Dutch by my colleague, Mr. De Vriendt, I would like to ask you today both orally and in French, hoping to be more successful. For 2015, how many requests for support for arms exports for each country concerned, more specifically for Saudi Arabia? For 2015, what was the financial value of the support for the export of arms of applications on the one hand and, on the other hand, of the accepted dossiers to each country in question? At the level of demand for an insurance credit, were they Walloon, Brussels or Flemish companies, knowing that the Ducroire, as a result of your various initiatives, is an inter-federal responsibility? Could you tell me the proportion of applications and acceptances by Region? Could you please explain to me what instructions and guidelines you have given on respect for human rights to representatives of the Belgian State on the Ducroire's board of directors with regard to the insurance granted to arms sales? Are ethical criteria part of the reflection prior to the Ducroire's approval of a file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u8	Mr Lijnen would already be in the House. Co-workers aren't allowed to filibuster, but it was women's day yesterday. Perhaps we can extend that and wait for two minutes for Mr Lijnen so that she can also ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, since the Paris attacks of 13 November 2015, Saudi Arabia's role in financing extremist and terrorist groups has regained its focus. The violations of human rights by the Saudi Arab regime were also reiterated. In this context, there has also been criticism of current Belgian relations with the country. In particular, Belgian arms deliveries to Saudi Arabia have become the main source of criticism. Open Vld questions the morality of such deliveries and wonders whether we can guarantee the final destination of deliveries to the Saudis. In the past, my party has already asked several questions about this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Minister Reynders told us that he, as a federal minister, has little to do with this and that since 2003 the Regions have exclusive competence for arms exports. However, he did write a letter on this matter to the Prime Ministers of Flanders and Wallonia, in which he wondered whether arms exports to this country were still appropriate. Nevertheless, Delcredere, the Belgian public credit insurer under your responsibility, plays an important role in ensuring arms exports from the Regions. Although the actual approval of an export licence for arms is carried out by the Regions, the insurance offered by Delcredere is a very important factor in the final decision to export the weapons effectively. We cannot deny that Delcredere's decision to grant credit insurance to arms exports is a purely technical one, but we cannot deny that this decision also has an important political impact. Since the federal government has four representatives on the Board of Directors of Delcredere, it can indeed influence the decisions on credit insurance. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, how many applications for credit insurance from arms exports to Saudi Arabia have Delcredere received in the last ten years? How many of these have been approved or refused? What are the criteria on which Delcredere bases itself to approve or refuse these applications? Are the representatives of the federal government taking part in the meetings of the Governing Council in order to arrive at a unified position on credit insurance for arms exports? If so, what attitude does the federal government take with regard to credit insurance for arms exports to Saudi Arabia? If not, does the government intend to adopt such a unified position on future export credit insurance for arms exports to Saudi Arabia? If no, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Delcredere is a parastatal government institution set up to provide export credits. As soon as an application complies with all legal and regulatory provisions, Delcredere evaluates whether or not the demand for export credit is being addressed, on the basis of the financial risk related to the country of export. The question of arms exports is a regionalised issue, which has already been mentioned in this committee. The current existing rules for issuing export licences for arms are a regional competence. These regulations came into force in 2002, after the adoption of purple-green arms deliveries to Nepal, resulting in Magda Aelvoet, then Deputy Prime Minister and representative of the Agalev party in the government. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u11	Green is therefore the basis for this change. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u12	It was a heavy bill in 2003. It is therefore up to the regions to define their policies in this area and to issue the necessary permits for that purpose. In other words, the regional ministers approve the export licences and are controlled by a regional parliament, whatever happens. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u13	To judge otherwise would, of course, be contrary to the constitutional and regional powers of this country. I refer to the note of the Legal Service of the Chamber of Representatives, which was requested by the External Relations Committee on 17 November 2015, and the cooperation agreement of 17 July 2007 between the federal state and the Regions on this matter. As regards the questions on figures, I refer to my written answers to questions of 18 June, 24 September, 8 October and 3 December 2015 by Mr De Vriendt. If my fellow Members so wish, I can give them a copy of this. I have them here with me, for those they wouldn't have. I repeat that between 2006 and 2015 Delcredere dealt with 93 files on arms exports to Saudi Arabia. No problems were identified as regards the creditworthiness of the counterparty. The Ducroire criteria for granting export credit are first based on the financial risks related to the country to which the export is made. In addition to financial risks, the Ducroire follows the guiding principles of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). It is a set of values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental standards and the fight against corruption. The place where the analysis of the files takes place is, of course, the Board of Directors of Delcredere. As I have already pointed out, the region must assume its responsibility in the ethical debate that results in the obtaining of an export licence or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, you have actually given a very good overview of how decision-making works. You may not have wanted to do that, but you have indicated very clearly the possibilities for Delcredere to make arms exports to Saudi Arabia more difficult. You've actually outlined that perfectly. The only question that remains is why you do not use that opportunity to do so effectively. I'll explain this in more detail. Of course, the federal level is not competent for the export licence. However, the federal level and Delcredere are responsible for whether or not they ensure such exports. In order to answer the question of whether or not this is to be ensured, you have just indicated that the financial risk liabilities are not only considered by the Board of Directors of Delcredere but also by certain political elements. So these are more subjective elements, if I may call them that, elements of which a political balance can be made. You mentioned human rights, for example. You might as well add the use of force against your own people in order to go into more detail about these human rights. Furthermore, there may be conflict in the region, which is also not conducive to the human rights situation. In other words, you have indicated very well here that Delcredere has a great deal of opportunity to prevent and block the insurance of an arms export deal based on those criteria. For 2014, Delcredere in the area of arms exports has insured 72 cases worth EUR 1.3 billion, but total arms exports in 2014 amounted to EUR 4.35 billion. So that means that Delcredere doesn't guarantee all arms exports. It does not need to do so, it can make a distinction on the basis of the elements I have just indicated. That is what I want to conclude. Your answer disappoints me. Do you not think it is wrong that we export arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain or Pakistan? I think we should not do that, and I am not alone in that. Kris Peeters said the same thing. Didier Reynders also asks for a review of this and, from his non-applicability, he is responsible for coordinating our foreign policy and has sent a letter to the Regions to do so. You now have something in your hands, just like the Secretary of Defense through the defense attachés. I am not asking you to stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia, but to stop insuring them through Delcredere. Mr Secretary of State, consider within the government whether we can make this more difficult. I believe that this would benefit security and stability in the Middle East, but also our own interests and our own security. We do not benefit from countries in the Middle East that continue to stir up conflicts. I would ask you to consider this and think about that very simple question which is entirely within your competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u15	Mr. Secretary of State, the Ducroire has the privilege of coming within your jurisdiction. At this point, you can do two things: pass on the information requested of you, namely the distribution of credit insurance granted by each Region, because you still do not give this information, and take the initiative to instruct the four representatives of the Federal State on the board of directors to ask no longer to insure arms exports to problematic countries. You say, in terms of instructions, guidelines, that you analyse the financial risk, which is the basic profession of the Ducroire, and that you take into account criteria, as defined by the OECD. It is also important to take into account an essential criterion, namely coherence. While, on the one hand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence are taking diplomatic and military steps to counter Daesh in the region, and, on the other hand, Saudi Arabia is taking steps to support terrorist groups, it would be consistent for the federal level, in conjunction with diplomatic and military initiatives, to decide on an arms embargo on these issues and to stop, via the Ducroire, promoting the export of Walloon, Flemish and possibly Brussels weapons to these regions. In view of the fact that you liked to refer to this blessed period of the Rainbow, I would like to remind you that, when you were Minister of Defence, and following a question I asked Minister Reynders, it appeared that a military attaché was posted in Saudi Arabia. The military attaché is the one who advises diplomats and has the role of being the interface between the Belgian defence industry and potential clients in the area where it is located. At that time, between 2011 and 2013, military attachés played this role of promotion, from arms sellers to countries as problematic as Saudi Arabia. It would therefore be opportune for the federal government as a whole to remain consistent, to stop developing this arms promotion through military attachés and to ensure military credits and arms credits to this kind of country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, if we look at the criterion of human rights, we certainly have a leverage to stop ensuring the supply of arms to Saudi Arabia. That is something that we may need to discuss a little more in this committee. Perhaps we should look at whether there is another initiative, because the fact that it is happening and the test is going through makes the eyebrows frown. Mr Secretary of State, you have not answered my question as to whether there is a unified position between the representatives of the federal government who are on the Board of Directors of Delcredere. I regret that. After all, it is very important that this dossier is properly discussed and that a very clear position is taken from the federal government. I propose that we find solutions to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-09-54-commissie-ic360x.u17	Thank you for your suggestion.
