ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, the 7 beaufort rule is finally being abolished by a royal decree. However, the summer season is on the doorstep and the water sportsmen are already on the water; we have indeed had a beautiful Easter holiday. How far do you stand with the royal decision? Can you give me more information on that new royal decree? Athletes entering the sea will have to carry an adapted means of sending emergency signals from a certain distance. Could you give us a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u2	Mrs Dumery, the current legislation was indeed in urgent need of renewal. After all, there were many differences of interpretation. There was no coherence in federal law or at regional and local level. There was also no regulatory framework for new sports. In addition, many athletes experienced problems with the 7 beaufort rule and the mandatory equipment. We are the only country in the world that forbids its windsurfers and kitesurfers from going to sea if there is too much wind. That's similar to a ban on skiing when there's snow. So our athletes, even many top sportsmen, cannot practice their sport in their own country, despite the fact that we have world champions in that area. That is why, as I said, in February 2015, I launched the legislative review process. We have consulted all actors: federations, enforcement services, the Flemish Minister of Sport, the governor of West Flanders. The goal is to make an integrated royal decision for all sports that depart from the beach to the sea, the so-called surf sports. We are therefore creating a very simple framework which gives clear guidance to local authorities and water sports clubs depending on their own situation. They can then make the further assessment depending on the local situation. The present federal design contains the following main lines of action. Firstly, it provides an answer to the question of branding sports. There must be a clear definition. It concerns all sports that can depart from the beach towards the sea: windsurfing, kitesurfing, rafts, jet skiing and jet scooter sport. Other vessels are excluded. Secondly, it provides that rescue services are free to use those vehicles in the performance of their mission. Saviors, for example, will now be free to use jet skis. Thirdly, there are clear zones for the practice of surf sports. In the Royal Decree we base ourselves on the regulations of the Flemish Region. Branding athletes can logically leave from on the beach and since the beach falls within the competence of the Flemish Region, we call it a swell zone. The Flemish Region will decide what sport it can be about. When it comes to jet-ski insertion zones, they can be identified by the Flemish Region. Until today, that was only allowed from ports. It is indeed important, Mrs Dumery, that the 7 beaufort rule be abolished. There are several reasons for this. Belgium is the only country that had introduced such a measure in the past. This means that our top athletes, as well as our regular athletes, have to move to neighbouring countries to practice their hobby or professional activity. I don't think that's possible. By the way, it is just interesting for the wind sportsmen to be able to go above those speeds at sea. In the meantime, it is also clear that it is not about awfully many days. On average, it's about 12 days a year. Wind is a fundamental part of sport. As far as safety equipment is concerned, we want to make an important reform, depending on the area in which they are located. There's also a logical build-up. The further you move from the beach, the safer you have to be equipped. In the nearest zone, the insert zone, an isothermic suit is enough. If one goes further into the sea, an adapted means must be provided for sending emergency signals, in accordance with international standards. It is preferably a means in which a positioning can be done. When you go in a jet ski, you always have to wear a life jacket. Finally, it goes without saying that when a ship crash occurs, like last year with the Flinterstar, our rescue services will not be able to intervene in any incidents involving surf sports. We therefore note in the Royal Decree that the West Flemish Governor may impose a temporary ban on the practice of sport. So the new KB places both freedom and security at the centre. The official advisory procedure for the KB has now been launched. The Regions and the Council of State are currently being consulted. We aim at 1 July 2016 for the entry into force of the legislation. I would add that this year we will also be starting to review the legislation on pleasure shipping. I will do so together with my colleague, Mr Galant, who is responsible for inland waterways. We will take the necessary initiatives together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, you not only gave a clear answer, because apparently there is also a royal decision that we can expect before 1 July 2016. We certainly expect the royal decree to be there. I certainly feel that the draft Royal Decree in question contains all the aspects that are needed at the moment, such as clarity about the times when one can and cannot go into the sea, clarity about the places where one can go into the sea and clarity about the safety equipment that is needed. I would like to thank you in advance for the efforts you have made in this area. The sector will also be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u4	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, traffic safety at sea may sound a bit bizarre, but, like for example, alcohol checks on the road, similar checks are also needed at sea or when entering a port. At sea one can enjoy as well as on a terrace. The shipping police have announced that they have been organising those traffic-safe days at sea for several years. With the arrival of spring and the beautiful weather it becomes again busier at sea and those traffic safe days arrive again. What exactly does a traffic-safe day mean? What actions are being taken? I notice that actions are planned in Nieuwpoort and Zeebrugge in the spring of 2016. You don't have to tell me the dates. It does not seem logical to me to know this in advance, but perhaps you would like to tell me that date. Could you give us some more information on this matter? What is the purpose of these traffic-safe days?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, on Sunday 22 May in Nieuwpoort and on Sunday 19 June in Zeebrugge, for the fifth time the road safety days at sea will take place. It is the FPS Mobility, the Maritime Transport department, that organizes the event. Few know it, but our North Sea is considered one of the busiest sea routes in the world. I have an anecdote on that. Recently I was in Portugal next to the Minister for Maritime Affairs of Brazil who asked me how long my coast was. I had to go there every time I went down against the Brazilian colleague. When I said that we had the busiest sea route in the world, the Brazilian colleague had to tie in. It is crucial that all activities are carried out in a safe manner, including recreational sailing. Every year, for traffic-safe days at sea, there is cooperation with the various coastguard partners to highlight the various safety aspects during those days, including in pleasure sailing. Those days are mainly intended to sensitise the many enthusiasts. This year, speakers from the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre, the Search & Rescue Department of Defense, the BIPT, the FOD Mobility and Ship Support, a private company that performs rapid interventions at sea. For the traffic-safe days in Nieuwpoort there is cooperation with the Yachtclub VVW, with the association Watersport Circle of the Air Force and with the Royal Yachtclub of Nieuwpoort. In Zeebrugge there is cooperation with the Hunting Club RBSC and the Westhinder Marina. This year's topics are: firstly, a practical explanation of the use of legally required equipment, radio and emergency signalling systems, life-rafts, etc.; secondly, safety for the pleasure boater at sea in general; thirdly, the high-line procedure of Defence in the event of possible evacuation by a helicopter of a victim on board a recreational craft; fourthly, emergency procedures to be followed in the event of an accident at sea. Of course, the safe day is also a unique opportunity for all yachtsmen to practice with different types of flares, smoke pots and hand hoist lights in peace, as opposed to the emergencies they may face. It is important to gain experience in the use of those means to allow the enthusiast to deal cold-blooded with those life-saving means in a real emergency. In short, with our country we have a very recreational fleet and quality marinas. Everyone thinks that the Netherlands is a maritime country, but we do not give enough of Belgium's. Madam President, I must honestly say that from the French-speaking part of the country there is sometimes more interest in the maritime objectives in our country than from the Flemish side. The road safety days at sea, however, are an excellent conclusion to this. As Secretary of State for the North Sea, I think it is very important that the organisation of those safe days at sea should take place and continue in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I understand that there is only awareness on that day and that there are no actions or targeted or non-targeted controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u7	The road safety days actually follow the actions being carried out for control and prevention. They are the final part of an action period during which control actions have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic375x.u8	I believe that sensitisation will only have an effect if there are effective controls. They should not be announced. We need to know that there is a chance of success and that we must abide by the rules.
