ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, last week I was asked by Mr Laaouej and Mr Crusnière to convene a meeting on the budgetary situation and the figures brought out last week by the financial and budgetary administrations. The update of the Monitoring Committee's budgetary data shows that an effort of 2.4 billion in 2016 and 4.2 billion in 2017 would be needed. I have noticed that in recent days there has been a very large debate, that the government has talked about this on television and in the newspapers, that all the groups have taken a position on this, that even the group chairmen have debated it in the Seventh Day, so I think it is only natural that Parliament should have an exchange of views on the latest figures here today. Within 14 days we will have the State of the Union and the debate on the 2017 budget. It is important that Parliament also gets to know those figures and the government's possible intentions. We have understood the debate as follows. Colleagues Laaouej, Van Hees, Pas, Gilkinet, Vanvelthoven, Calvo and Dispa have submitted a number of questions. This is an exchange of views, but I would suggest that they develop a number of statements on the basis of their questions for a maximum of seven to eight minutes. I think this should be possible in first order. Since it is an exchange of views, the political groups which have not tabled a question can agree with this, even with limited speaking time. Afterwards, ministers Wilmès and Van Overtveldt will be able to reply and the committee members will be given the opportunity to express their views. We will try to use a reasonable speaking time so that we can have a two-hour debate, which I think is important for such a subject. I suggest we start immediately. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u2	Mr. President, let's not turn around the pot. Minister of Budget, Minister of Finance, you are failing. This one's double. First of all, it is a budget failure. The figures speak for themselves: 4.2 billion; a few weeks earlier, there were 2.4 billion. Comprehensive who can! We'll try to do it. And then, it's an economic failure. It's no secret. When we are told that there are fewer tax revenues, we know that these do not come from anywhere, but from bases. These include income, household consumption and other things. When you have so much less tax revenue than expected, that means you have a tax base problem. Therefore, we must be able to find the reasons for this. You promised us economic recovery. We see a deterioration in the economic growth forecast for 2017. The Brexit has a good back! We'll get back to it. You explained to us that, by miracle, economic activity would increase and that domestic demand would be sustained massively. However, it is the opposite that we are observing. The ideology in which you have put your policy since the beginning of the legislature leads to the results that you are facing and that we must see and deplore. Secondly, there have been no lack of institutions – I am thinking of the National Bank and the Office of the Plan, but also of the Court of Auditors – to draw your attention to certain repetitive lightnesses which limit the political fault in drawing up your budgets, whether it be in the setting of tax revenue forecasts, in the evaluation of the performance of new measures or in that of savings items – I will cite only one example: the famous redesign of the administration – whether it is also in the under-financing or even the lack of financing of your reforms. In particular, I am thinking of the tax shift, which will not lose sight of the fact that, for the most part, it concerns reductions in employers' contributions and on which the National Bank said: "EUR 6.6 billion in financing is lacking by 2020." The Court of Auditors, for its part, said: "Attention, you are putting in your budget new revenue (Caiman tax, tax regularisations, banking tax, to name but a few examples) of which you can really challenge the return" on the basis of figures from the tax administration. In the same way, the same Court of Auditors said: "Attention, a number of measures that you are adopting are legal in nature because they are in dispute before the Constitutional Court". Nothing did. You have almost never followed his observations or those of the opposition, which, however, indicated to you the frailties of your work and budget. So, you continued to go into the wall by horning. And then, you're caught up in the facts, as usual. Let us recall the famous 750 million euros which the Regions had been deprived of. And they told you, "Be careful, you're wrong." You said, "No, we're not wrong." A few months later, you said: "Ah yes, we were wrong, not 750 million but 600 million euros. " It's the same scenario every time, it's the same music every time. You're not listening to the warnings. You are mistaken in the fundamental political choices, and - that is quite frightening - you find a disconcerting apology. You are read in the press; you explain to us that, for 2016, the problem is the slowing down of growth. But no, growth is maintained at 1.4%! And, for 2017, 1.2%, thus reducing growth prospects. This is the fault of Brexit, except that we are doing less well than the other euro area countries. In the euro area average, the outlook for growth is 1.3%. Why is it less home? There is no time for you to wonder about your responsibility for the economic choices you make. Don't you think that with the index jump, you put huge pressure on wages? On the basis of figures from the Planning Office, we can see the evolution of the wage bill, which falls considerably for several billion euros. On the other hand, you immediately raised the taxes on consumption. And you said, "But be careful, there's the tax shift. We're giving a check for 100 euros." The cheque of 100 euros, first of all, will not be for everyone, but above all it will only be in 2019, while the taxes on consumption were decided immediately. We are therefore faced with a double failure: that of your economic policy and that of your budgetary policy. And at the same time, we're going to have to move forward, you're going to have to give us some serious figures. To do this, we need an update. Could you update the tax revenue forecasts for Parliament? Maybe it's time to think about it! Could you explain to us, more specifically than you have done so far, why there is a decline in VAT revenues? Why is there a decline in household discount revenues? Why is there such an important two billion change in your budget hole? All of this we want you to be able to explain to us, because, for the time being, what we have been able to read in the press does not convince us; you will have understood it. And I cannot fail to conclude my speech and my questions, Mr President, with a statement that is shared by a large number of observers. It is that in the field of the fight against tax fraud and financial crime, where you could find ways, we still don't see much coming. The scandals follow the scandals and I do not see a government mobilization to finally tackle tax fraud, especially organised tax fraud, which would make it possible to bring in additional resources. And finally, please give us an answer as regards this failure related to the increase in excise duties. The sectors concerned had warned you. They predicted that there would be transborder shopping, that people would go abroad to buy their products and, therefore, that excise increases would result in lower revenues. Well, here we go! Again, there has been no decisive reaction in terms of policy change. These, Mr. Chairman, are the questions I wanted to address to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u3	Minister, minister, $2.4 billion was already huge. 4.2 billion, there's still a huge jump that's crossed. I guess it's not a dyslexia problem, I guess you didn't get Mrs. Galant's calculator when she went back to Jurbise. So, what's the problem? What is the problem with this error and repeated mistakes? If this were just one problem, we'd be worried, but not too much. However, it is in every budgetary control that we have the same situation. Mr. Minister of Finance, your estimates are incorrect. There you go. When it was Ms. Galant who made mistakes, or when it was Ms. Marghem, it was only a matter of limited, identified skills, but here it is tax revenue. So you're putting all the departments in trouble. Minister, you're a little bit of the zwart, the stinking valet, of this government. Yet God knows if there is competition. Even in the majority, we hear that we have a little bit of enough of your mistakes, minister. So, is it technical or ideological errors? Is it your model, your ultra-liberal dogmatism that doesn't work? I think the question deserves to be asked. Indeed, on the one hand, you are taxing consumers more and more, and it is surprising that taxes are not coming as expected; on the other hand, you are multiplying gifts to capital and expecting a return effect that exists only in your head in my opinion. So you are both the stinking valet of public finances and the obedient valet of private capital. Your economic model does not work, but you have nothing to do with it, according to your statements, minister, with consequences. I quote: "It is still possible to make socially responsible savings". Don't talk about what you don't know! Excuse me, but we know your party's plan. The aim is to break social security. I assume that for you, the Community and socio-economic objectives go hand in hand. You are a committed Chicago boy and perhaps a social security to the American would suit you very well, a system where 50 to 100 million people are not entitled to sickness insurance, but that is not the Belgian model, Minister. There is a series of failures in your model. I said, the return effect is the "back in your mouth" effect. Because your theory of runoff, trickle down, it doesn't work. It is clear that there is no possibility of recovery when one breaks the possibilities of consumption of the population. When we impoverish consumers, necessarily, we break the model and break taxes in the short term. We know, minister, minister, that your tax shift is not funded. Why isn't it funded? But because it wasn't a neutral operation. It was not a tax slide – it would be to increase taxes and reduce others. There was an intruder in this tax shift, the new gifts of several billion euros to employers, to capital. Obviously, there is a problem of financing this tax shift, until 2019. There's also your fake capital tax. For sure, symbolic taxes on capital – when you don't really want to touch capital but want to make it look like you're touching it – are measures that don't pay anything. When one takes a tax on capital gains but limits in time the capital gains affected, necessarily as the beneficiaries of such capital gains are not stupid, will not take on a surplus-value that will be taxed when they have the possibility, by delaying the expiry of the sale, of not being taxed. It's obvious that this kind of thing doesn't work. And then there are beginners' mistakes, like raising the alcohol tax. We know very well that, either, it will reduce alcohol consumption – at the limit, it is a good thing, it will have had at least a positive effect, a decrease in alcohol consumption – but budgetaryly, it is a problem; either, it pushes people, especially in border areas, to go buy their alcohol elsewhere. These are beginner mistakes. I have a few questions for you. First, can you go back a little bit on the numbers and provide us, if possible also in writing, with data on the details of these 4.2 billion and documented explanations for each item? Secondly, can you tell us about the budgetary balance, and the objective of budgetary balance in 2018? Is it maintained or abandoned? Within the majority, we hear different words. Thirdly, given the magnitude of the current slippage, is there a margin for this large investment project that the Prime Minister is talking about, and is there a margin for corporate tax reform that would not be fiscally neutral? I think these questions deserve to be asked. When it comes to investment, there is no need to recall the needs. As far as corporate tax is concerned, we have a common problem. We have a new "leak," the Bahamas Leaks. We realize that with a series of tax niches, Belgium acts as a tax haven. We are increasingly being pointed at by different countries and international bodies. We must dare to call into question certain mechanisms. I ask the following question: Is there a need for fiscally neutral corporate tax reform? I also ask the question in the other direction: with the budgetary slippage we are facing, is it not time to remove tax niches which have no political basis, which have no political or social justification, without affecting the rate of corporate tax? In view of the social emergency, given the problems of fiscal slippage that we are experiencing, since it would be criminal to touch public spending and social security today, should we not review corporate taxes, by removing tax niches without taxing corporate taxes, so that we can get money where it is? Dividend distributions today reach record levels. I come to the question that the whole population is asking: how are you going to fill this huge hole? Will you fill it, as you have done so far, by further tightening austerity for the majority of the population, breaking social security, going further to break public services, despite the state in which they are located? I hear several ministers say that there is no question of touching their department again. Where are you going to get those moneys? Or are you going to consider taking the money where it is outrageously concentrated, i.e. in the caisses of large companies and the holders of large assets? I would remind you that I have tabled a bill on a millionaire tax that could raise up to EUR 8 billion. Given the astronomical budgetary problems we are facing today, it is time to activate wealth for a real economic recovery!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u4	Mr President, there are differences of opinion on whether or not this country is in a state of emergency in the area of security. In the meantime, however, I believe that everyone agrees that we are in a state of emergency in the financial field. The promised strength of change was that the figures would come together during this legislature. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made a little of this government's commitment. The budgetary balance was the condition, the reason why the Community is going into the refrigerator for years. Your party has actually made its mark of the budgetary aspect; it was almost the main motive for this coalition agreement. I would even say that it is actually the reason for this coalition's existence. But where are we after two years? The gap in the budget has almost doubled in a few months. I have heard and read all kinds of statements before that in the media. Of course, you would like to refer to external factors. They are undoubtedly always involved, but it is a matter of good governance and foresight to always create a buffer, although not everything can be foreseen. However, there are also things that are, of course, entirely due to yourself. This government systematically looks at the impact of measures, at the impact of taxes and savings. The tax shift is not fully funded. We were not the only ones to warn. I remember the words of the chairman of this committee. All kinds of measures do not work as you planned. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in withholding tax, which is less than budgeted, of the increase in excise duty on tobacco and alcohol which is less than you expected or of the increase in VAT on electricity that was overestimated. As was the case with the previous government, in mid-October you will have to transfer your budget proposal to the European Union for billions of euros. It concerns 4.2 billion for the 2016 and 2017 budgets. Another billion is needed for this year. You have three and a half months left to get that money effectively into the accounts. Next year, you'll have to look for 1.9 billion instead of 1.1 billion. I have already heard Minister Wilmès say that these figures are not yet final, but that is not new either. You have already referred to technical working groups. We saw the same thing in the previous government. They try to bring the final figures down a bit by interfering with the parameters, but that doesn't mean anything structural. I do not expect to hear today what measures you will take to fill that gigantic crater in the budget a little bit. As we have seen from previous governments and from you too, I fear that it will be a traditional haste, with a lot of cutting and sticking, with the trickbox being pulled out again, but with one constant: the citizens who have already turned in a lot of your measures will again suffer, because they will no longer see the budgetary misery coming to an end. I would like to clarify the objectives of this government today. Are you going to shift the objectives, as is always the case in such situations? Will you maintain your target for this year to keep the deficit below 3%, the magical limit of the European fine? You're probably gonna be lucky to stay down there. One can always postpone expenditure for a few months until next year, but of course you cannot submit anything structural. Will you initially try to stay below that 3 % limit? Secondly, what is your objective for 2017? Thirdly, what is the objective for 2018? The budgetary balance for 2018 has long been promised. That was the stake, that's actually in your federal government agreement. Are you going to postpone that balance? How long are you going to postpone that? The interest rate won't stay low forever. If interest rates on public debt start to rise, the budgetary crisis will be completely out of control. You committed yourself to achieving a structural balance in the budget in 2018, and now I hear only one party of government in the media still holding onto it. However, all government parties have committed themselves to this in the coalition agreement. You should do that. There are only two possibilities for this, either on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. Extra taxing is obviously not an option for a country like Belgium, which is already a tax champion. So you need to get your budget under control on the expenditure side. Billions go to transfers, billions go to migration. I trust that everything will be negotiable, that you will not create taboos, to ensure that your budget is not completely derailed. I am very curious whether we will hear one structural measure from you in the next two weeks, but at least I want to hear today whether you are still honouring your own government agreement and whether you are abandoning the objective of a budget balance in 2018 or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u5	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for having organized this meeting so quickly, as Chairman of the Committee on Finance, and for having responded to the request of some colleagues. You have great freedom of speech, and if I decode correctly, I think you share our concern as members of the opposition about this budgetary situation. I have regularly read and heard you on the subject. Beyond your role as president, I would suggest that you, in the majority, play your part in correcting things with your party. Otherwise, it would be too easy to speak out and not act. I turn to the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Finance. You have a hole in your budget and it's the chronicle of a slip, or even an announced crash. What is terrible enough for those who follow our work carefully is that it is not a scoop. We have repeatedly alerted you, and bodies such as the Court of Auditors, the Planning Office, Europe, have denounced inconsistent budgetary choices, overvalued revenues, economic choices that were not going to work. We have relayed all this, each with our own tonalities and concerns. You never took our observations into account. It's pretty creepy. You bet indefinitely on feedback effects that obviously don't happen. Minister of Finance, if you were still a journalist, I wonder what you could have written! You always had a pretty hard pen for your predecessors. It is often said that it is at the foot of the wall that the mason is recognized, but you are obviously a bad mason, a Minister of Finance who does not do his job. The current situation is the result of different phenomena which must first be analysed. First, we have an economy that doesn't work optimally today, despite the various gifts you wanted to give to the economic world, without consideration. Trust is not there. We save too much, we invest too little. Tax policy, Minister of Finance, does not work. Your administration is sick, for lack of means. She came to explain it to us several times. The fight against fraud is entirely in practice. The tax is no longer properly recovered. And above all, the various measures that you have presented to us here since the beginning of the legislature (the Cayman tax, the Diamond tax, the tax regularization) clearly do not bring back the millions of euros you had announced. The most obvious illustration of this problem is the tax shift, a reduction in social contributions which can support job creation, provided that it is conditioned and provided that it is strictly compensated by new revenue. The initial hole was 6 billion euros and it is expected to be even more important. The current situation is also the result of a deteriorating social situation. If pensioners, beneficiaries, sick people, job seekers, part-time income workers are deprived, they cannot consume, meet their basic needs and also turn the economy around. Finally, this situation is the result of a lack of vision of what the economy of tomorrow in Belgium should be. Do you propose, as we would like as ecologists, a Belgium that is completely independent of energy tomorrow, a Belgium that invests in research and development, in the jobs of the future? All this is not seen, since you have decided to blindly trust the market, whereas for us we need an economy that is sustained and also oriented towards the future. What we fear as ecologists is a form of gripping. And we feel it coming. On the one hand, you are not doing your job on the budget, on the tax revenue side. So today there is a large deficit. And on the other hand, we hear members of the government, members of the majority, and not least, tell us: "Yes, there is still the possibility of making socially responsible economies, still savings in social security." The president of the N-VA even explains to its members: "We will not make a community but, be assured, we do much better than that; we will act on the social." Mr. Van Overtveldt here does not make things work in terms of revenue and we are told that we are still going to save on the most fragile, while leaving aside – even though we have had a little lightening in the grey with the Prime Minister's back-to-back communication test – the investment policies for the future. We do not think that the answer to this situation should be even more similar, since what you have put in place since the formation of this government clearly does not work. We therefore ask you to change course. My questions, in relation to that. What about the fiscal trajectory? Would you rather apply the vision of Mr. De Croo and M. From Wever 2018, or are you going to give yourself a little margin and oxygen? As far as tax matters are concerned, with proof that what you have put in place does not work, will you accept, Mr. Minister of Finance, to correct the shooting, to come back with texts, in the fight against tax fraud, a little more legally sound, not passers-by? Will you empower your tax administration to fight fraud and collect tax owing? Can we guarantee that there will be no new cuts after the more than 3 billion euros already saved in redistribution via social security? Beyond the budget gap to be filled, what margins are you going to create for a future socio-economic project? Were the Prime Minister's return comments on an investment plan merely an announcement effect, or will they be followed by significant policy impacts and choices? Will you also act to limit bad spending, especially in tax matters, and make qualitative choices? Because doing otherwise is possible. We did the fiscal year and we presented you with an alternative budget, with useful savings: the removal of costly tax niches, spending restrictions on medicines (there are far too many medicines in Belgium, sometimes too expensive); and new revenues, through better tax collection, a fight against tax fraud and a contribution of capital; but also investments that can prepare tomorrow. All this is possible. Simply, you have to agree to do a little self-criticism and change course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u6	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I can imagine that you will have to sigh regularly when you get the results of your colleague, the Minister for Finance, on your table. Indeed, He is the One Who brings you into trouble all the time. In recent times, I often have to think of a novel from the late 19th century that we all know: The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde. Dr. Jekyll is the critical reporter calling on the sidelines, and Mr. Hyde is the one who can't control it anymore and who doesn't know what to do anymore. In our country it is The Strange Case by journalist Johan and Minister Van Overtveldt. Let us be honest, Minister of Finance, you always come up with explanations, arguments, comments on why it all doesn't work out. The only argument you have not used so far is that the problem lies with Minister Van Overtveldt, of course. I see you're talking about the Brexit. Of course, the figures for 2016 have nothing to do with that. The Brexit was decided just before the summer. The results for the first quarter of 2016 were even exceptionally good. I quote what the Planbureau wrote about growth in 2016 "The same argument applies, of course, to the attacks that we have been carrying out: "The Belgian economy is expected to grow by 1.4 % for the second year in a row in 2016, which is largely due to unexpectedly strong GDP growth in the second quarter. If the figures this year are very disappointing, this has nothing to do with the attacks; they have happened and then there has been strong economic growth. The results also have nothing to do with the Brexit. Let me say the following about the Brexit. I remember we were a little upset when the Prime Minister launched a campaign immediately after the Brexit because he saw a great opportunity in the Brexit. He started a whole campaign to bring British investors to our country. We would see something here, we would see rather economic growth here thanks to the Brexit! Now, however, that argument is reversed and the Brexit is apparently, in your opinion, one of the causes of the disappointing figures. The fact is that these are not the reasons why the figures are disappointing today. We have discussed it here in committee and in Parliament many times have been the over-optimistic estimates of revenue in the budget. There are far too optimistic estimates of the taxes you should collect. I looked it up. Here too, you have publicly stated at some point that this was a far too optimistic model of your own administration. So again it was not you, it was your administration that had judged everything far too wrong and far too optimistic. However, you were warned. I'd like to list a list of those warnings. The Cayman tax will have to raise 460 million euros in 2016. Your administration, which you accused a few weeks ago of being far too optimistic, then referred to it as a utopian estimate. The Court of Auditors and the European Commission were also on the same page, namely that it was a utopian estimate. Nevertheless, and with you the rest of the government, you have left that amount of EUR 460 million in the budget. The new anti-fraud measures in response to the Panama Papers should put an extra EUR 190 million into effect this year. Most of the measures are not even in force today. Last week we discussed the Panama Task Force, which you announced. Today that is still not complete, the task force has still not been put together. On these Panamanian measures, too, I quote the Court of Auditors: "The Court of Auditors has only received information on the budgetary impact for four measures. These estimates are not substantiated. That's what the Court of Auditors says. The carat tax is still dead letter today. However, that measure was already decided in April 2015. The amount of EUR 50 million is still in the budget. What does the Court of Auditors say about the carat tax for the 2016 control? I quote again: "Although not all the modalities of the alternative system are yet known, the Court of Auditors notes that the estimation of the yield is based on insufficient debt ratio, I repeat: insufficient debt-to-GDP ratio. Then there is the new tax regulation, another measure which has been discussed very often here in committee. What does the Court of Auditors say about that? The Court of Auditors considers that the estimation of these revenues is precarious." So you are constantly warned by everyone that the proceeds you give are not going to go far or far. In the meantime, I understand that you are quite stubborn in that respect, as people sometimes call it. You are one who, since something has been decided, continues with it. Meanwhile, the government is struggling with a huge problem for our country, because the revenue you have provided to the government is not being taken from any side. I list the measures for the 2016 budget. The EUR 188 million VAT fraud has not been dealt with. Almost nothing has yet happened for the fraud measures that have to amount to EUR 190 million. The estimate of the Cayman tax revenue of EUR 460 million says everyone that it is utopian. The carat tax, amounting to EUR 50 million, is not yet in place. With the tax regularisation you want to drive in 250 million euros, but the Flemish government has only entered a quarter of these revenues in its budget, while maintaining the full amount for 2016. There are questions about the real estate trade regime that must raise EUR 250 million. In short, no less than EUR 1 388 000 000 in income is highly unlikely, and so is the warning you have received from all the major bodies. If you maintain these estimates and you do not get that amount, be so honest to point to yourself and not to your administration, not to the Brexit and not to the attacks. There's one guy here who's got butter on his head. That's the Minister of Finance. I would like to put a few questions both to you, Madam Secretary of State for the Budget and to you, Minister for Finance. Madam Secretary, I'd like to hear it from you. Do you also consider that there is a problem on the revenue side in obtaining the intended tax revenue? Let's be honest. We often talk about fair taxes here. If something is unjust, then it is that certain taxes for the same groups are consistently not collected. All the money from who works and pays taxes through the company precharges comes in neatly. But the government is failing when it comes to everything that has to be done extra for certain groups. Secondly, what is the status of the State of the Union? In two weeks, the government will have to propose it. Do you think that's feasible? I would also like to know the impact of the figures on the government's plans to reform corporate tax. Is it gonna be there or is it gonna be under pressure? My final question concerns the balance of the budget. That has been one of the pillars of the government. Is it still that way? In 2018, the budget would be in balance. Does the government hold on to that, or does she let it go?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u7	Mr Calvo is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u8	Mr President, after the speeches of those who preceded me, I want to try to be somewhat positive. As an introduction, I will point out a few points on which I could thank the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Finance. I thank you first for your presence. I say it without humor, because I find that you are carrying bad news, and that you come to this committee and assume it. I certainly hope that this will be your speech. You come at a time when the government is discussing the development of its budget, so it's not necessarily an easy time to communicate. I find that coming here with us to tell us your point of view is not so bad. The second element to your credit, the mitigating circumstance that I grant you, is that your task is not easy. That's indisputable. Personally, and I'm also speaking on behalf of the CDH, I've known for a long time. Before the elections, I remember that we had been thinking about the outlook for public finances, the tax reforms that needed to be considered or not. The figures were eloquent: the restoration of public finances was not a small matter, it was rather a heavy task. That is why, at the time, the CDH, and some other parties on the francophone side, had proposed fiscal reform only if it was neutral in the budget. Only one party on the francophone side was strong in carrying out a fiscal reform that was not fiscally neutral; it was the MR. I refer to this memory, because it was already a little revealing of what you could call, in liberal language, "optimism of the will". In liberal language, we like to be proactive. We cut taxes and then come what we can. It is thought that the return effects will necessarily solve the problems that are not solved. There was a form of lightness there. I think that this lightness is following you, and that it is not unrelated to the situation you are currently experiencing. However, after the elections, the majority that took place set clear targets in terms of public finances. In your view, it was necessary to reduce the share of public expenditure in gross domestic product, reduce the debt rate and restore fiscal balance by 2018. It was really the alpha, or more precisely the omega, of the politics of this government. It was not the opposition that forced you to set this goal. The government and successive budget ministers have truly taken responsibility for this. I have personally asked Mr Jamar and Mrs Wilmès several times during each financial year to confirm that this is still your objective. A certain period of floating took place, during which you said that all options were open. But every time, and again in the last adjustment voted this summer, you, on behalf of the government, reaffirmed this objective of returning to budgetary balance. I don't want to make a comparison that might injure you, but at times you make me think a little of François Hollande. It had set itself a clear objective: the reversal of the unemployment curve. It was a voluntarist objective that was intended to be challenging, but which, upon arrival, cost him dearly. I want to say that the return to budgetary balance is to Sweden what the reversal of the unemployment curve is to François Hollande: a proactive objective in the beginning, which finally deflates like a baudrouch to become a chimera. Objectively, you are at the foot of the wall today and the goal is out of reach. What was the sign of an ambition of the federal government became the marker of your failure. I think this is really your failure, since it is an objective that you have set yourself, and that you have defended every fiscal year. It is now clear that it is out of reach. The statement may seem harsh on the part of members of the opposition. I believe that the Minister of Finance felt that we were doing a little too much of it and that a political game was hiding there. However, he is mistaken. The toughest thing with you, Minister of Budget and Minister of Finance, is Bart De Wever. He was the one who, in an interview about two weeks ago, said: "My only point of dissatisfaction with this government is the budget." The wrong ballot comes from the majority. The donkey cap is Bart De Wever who gives it to you. It says a lot about the difficulties your government is facing. I will come back to this matter earlier so that you can try to clarify the political situation in this government. The problem is a problem of budgetary control. From the outset, you have been told, in terms of spending, that the methodology followed lacks credibility and efficiency. At the beginning of this government's installation, it was the Prime Minister himself who explained that everything was calculated, that line by line, you were able to establish a trajectory that led to the return to fiscal balance. It's the Excel spreadsheet trap. When using an Excel spreadsheet, it is enough to insert a few variants and adjust the numbers to arrive at the final result. That's the method you followed. You have imposed somewhat linear, mechanical, blind expenditure cuts by saying that by a mechanical effect, you are going to return to the balance of the budget. The problem is that your method doesn't fit into reality and that many of the spending cuts you have announced have proved untenable. For example, in the area of security, you have imposed reductions in expenditure in the departments of authority, including security and justice, and then you have to realize that this was not sustainable and that you had to find provisions or replenish amounts to return to the savings that you yourself had decided. In this expenditure register, you also used a kind of magic wand called the redesign of the state. With this magic wand, you were able to declare that you were going to recover large amounts of money on the state's life train. It never convinced anyone. It was just a magical thought in your head. It is now clear that your magical thinking about budgetary control is insufficient. But the worst is in terms of revenue. My colleagues have said so on a number of occasions. In this regard, we look forward to hearing from you, because the situation is serious. There is, obviously, and I say it even without any polemics, a problem of reliability of estimates. In terms of state management, this is a real problem. How can we govern the federal state with estimates as unreliable, as changing, as evolutionary? As the humorist said, "predictions are difficult to establish". But in this case, we reach a threshold of gravity never seen. Fifteen days ago, Minister of Budget, in front of the television cameras, you said that you could be optimistic about the tax revenues that were going to fall to keep the budget going. And, fifteen days later, you come before us to say that, patatras, we are going from 2.4 billion to 4.2 billion! In fifteen days of time, how can one so much be disrupted in the analysis of the figures, in the forecasts? I think there is a real concern and I would like to hear from you about that. You are obviously not the government forecasters, but you have the administrations behind you. Do you think there is a problem with the reliability of the numbers you are working on? If so, what kind is it? Objectively, the phenomenon reproduces very regularly; it is true for both the federal government and other levels of government. There is a real structural difficulty in the management of the state. This is the total lack of reliability of the estimates. I would like to hear from you about that. Moreover, beyond the reliability of the figures and indicators, it is also the effect of your economic policy. That was the creed of the government. It was an economic policy that would ease the burden of the state, strengthen businesses a little, boost the private sector, boost the economy and create jobs. In view of the new figures, however, growth forecasts are being revised downwards. This too is a record of failure on the economic front which was on which you were keen to implement reforms that would bear fruit. Clearly, your socio-economic reforms are not bearing fruit, or they are particularly bitter, as they are putting at risk the fiscal trajectories that you have set yourself. I come to the third element on the side of these recipes. This is obviously tax policy. I think I told you – I don't know if it was at the time of the review of the 2017 initial budget or at the time of the adjustment review – that your Ways and Means budget was a gruyère. Today, you are in the hole and you see that there are holes in the grouse. But, objectively, it's not a surprise for anyone. From the beginning, you are told here on the benches of the opposition as well as on the side of the institutions that should be authoritative – I think the Court of Auditors – that your revenue forecasts are unreliable. Let us reread the parliamentary proceedings, the interventions of each other and remember, reading in support, that the warnings were given to you on time and on time and that you did not take them into account. Now it's hard to be surprised. That is true, for example, to take up only one point, with regard to excise duties on diesel, tobacco or alcohol. We shared with you the concerns of the federations concerned, saying that your increase in excise duties was going to have a perverse effect. You denied these prospects and now we're in the middle of it! Your predictions aren't true. It is clearly your choice of policy that is engaged. It is your responsibility that is engaged. These are not external factors, they are the choices you have made, the estimates you have defended, the criticisms you have not wanted to hear that put you in trouble. That's true for the tax shift, and God knows if we've talked about it and we're probably going to talk about it a lot more! Is the tax shift, yes or no, funded, Mr. President? You have expressed your position on several occasions. The Minister of Finance maintained against winds and tides that the tax shift was funded. How can we achieve a deficit of 4.2 billion now if the tax shift is funded? There's a problem. We cannot be told that the tax shift is funded and then say that the balance is not reached. I think that's an effect of the policy you've been pursuing. You said on the TV sets that the government was going to offer a check for 100 euros to the inhabitants. I still hear Denis Ducrame say there'll be a check for 100 euros. In order to hold this speech and present you as those who, in a certain way, reduced taxation, you have created chaos in the Belgian tax system. First of all by imposing compensatory measures on the population's backs (the increase in VAT, the index jump) and now by finding that the account is not good and that one will have to pay again in one way or another. This makes me think that it would be better to be careful about corporate taxes. I am sorry to say so because I pleaded for corporate tax reform. I think he's unfair, he's ineffective. But when I see the result of your action, I want to tell you "don't touch it anymore", because it may be even worse after and you risk aggravating the situation. In any case, think twice before changing the corporate tax system because you could have the same effects if the same causes occur. The questions I want to ask you relate to the explanation of the situation. What is the explanation? We understand that you are referring to external factors, Brexit, terrorism, perhaps climate change. Do you think you have a share of responsibility? Do you think that in your work as Minister of Budget and Minister of Finance, in estimating revenues, in the proposals you have submitted to the government, you have a small share of responsibility? Or is it the fault of all these external factors: "the mistake of a bowl"? If you really have no share of responsibility, what are you doing? We can honestly ask ourselves the question. The work of the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Finance is assessed for what he is. Beyond the explanation you're going to give us, we'd like to hear from you about the proposals you're going to put on the government table to get out of these difficulties. I know there are several categories of Budget Ministers. There is the Minister of Budget who weighs a little ahead of the decision and tries to set a course, and there is the one who counts the costs, who counts and who does the after-sales service. What category are you in? What proposal do you defend to get out of the budgetary difficulty you find yourself in? What are your proposals, particularly with regard to the impact on the population? Are there any measures in preparation that will affect the population? I hope I don't, because that would be the end of it. What is your choice? What is your position on the measures to be taken, if any, in the field of social security? On this issue, the government goes a little "to hue and dia". What is the position of the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Finance on this issue? What is your position on the level of public service to be rendered to the public, in terms of security and mobility? Are you proposing dark cuts, further reductions in the estimates? What are your proposals regarding business and, in particular, corporate tax? These are the questions I wanted to ask you. The paradox is that we will hear you after, but we are looking forward to your explanations, and with some seriousness. Indeed, the situation is objectively more worrying than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u9	Mr Calvo, are you going to take the floor? You had a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u10	If that's all right, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u11	That's okay, but don't repeat what you've already said in the media. Try to bring something new. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u12	We have another scoop: Eric Van Rompuy advocates that MEPs do not get too involved in the media. I think that Mr Van Overtveldt will also be very pleased, including as far as you are concerned. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for organising this sitting, to respond to the opposition's question, including Mr Laaouej, to discuss this situation together. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej wrote to you immediately. It also makes sense to meet on this issue. If the Finance Committee does not discuss this situation, what then? Thank you for that. Mr and Madam Minister, this government has the opposition working overtime. We are forced to multitask, because elsewhere in this building we have to question the Minister of Energy about an equally difficult situation, the negligence on the nuclear contribution, which does not make the budget any easier. There is coherence and there are similarities between the two dossiers. I won't ask you how you're gonna solve things. After all, I assume that Duchess Duchess has been booked and that you will perhaps keep the scoop in front of the press to say again at a press conference that it is going well, that it is fantastic what you are doing for our fellow countrymen. That's probably two or three weeks from now. That's what I'm assuming. I'll ask you about the timing later. It would be naive to think that today you're going to tell us how you're going to solve things. However, I think it is necessary to consider the situation, especially since you were rather disliked this weekend, Minister of Finance. You say the opposition is looking for nails on low tide, you're talking about personal attacks... that's no use. When it comes to playing the man or the ball, would I at least invite you to make the exercise: this opposition or the opposition of the last time? Then you will find that this opposition is playing more the ball than that of your party last year. You say you're being personally targeted, but that's not what we're talking about today. This was not the case yesterday, it will not be the case tomorrow, nor was it the case in the last two years. We have been discussing your policies and the policies of this government for two years, a government policy that invests too much in dividends and profits, and too little in people. Today we see the budgetary and socio-economic consequences of this. This debate is about your policy, about your actions as Minister of Finance. You're gonna be pretty hard to get the cash in order. This is not only the opinion of the opposition, but Mr Van Rompuy is also one of the country's most prominent bloggers. The Court of Auditors also does this, in a less polemic and more factual way. All that comes up here today are matters for which the Court of Auditors has warned you. Frankly, Mrs Wilmès, it is not easy for you to get the budget in order with such a minister of finance. You don't get mad about that, you might even let things go a little too far. There's a lot of numbers circulating in the media. I think it's important that we find out now what's changed. What are the assumptions? It is also important that we see the report of the Monitoring Committee, which is the basis of this new assessment. The last report we have is dated 18 July 2016. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to address myself to you on this point. I hope that we do not have to be satisfied with the oral explanation, although I am very much looking forward to it. We want a clear, written state of affairs. Mr. Secretary, you already have a chance to take a hint of the veil. Secondly, tax revenue. There would be a buffer of EUR 1 billion. Normally, everyone would say that a buffer of one billion euros for tax revenue is too much. In this case, and taking into account your course as Minister of Finance over the last two years, should we perhaps rather ask ourselves whether a billion euros is enough? Mrs Wilmès, you have already shown on Sunday in the Seventh Day that perhaps something can be done about that, that the buffer may be partially deployed. However, I fear that this will be difficult at the moment, unless you have a different argument for it. After all, there are many questions about tax revenue. There are a lot of tax measures where you don't do what you promised: cayman tax, tax school buildings, diamond tax and perhaps the most important tax shift. Since you're together now, I'd like to think about that. When Mrs Wilmès said on her debut as Minister of Budget that the tax shift was not funded, she was confronted with your banners. I couldn't. The tax shift was funded. Do you remember that, Mrs. Wilmès? You had to walk for a while. You told the truth, and Mr Van Overtveldt did not find it pleasant. That's how you started out as Minister of the Budget. Today, it's crystal clear. Time to confess, Mr Van Overtveldt, that tax shift has not been financed. Johan Van Overtveldt was wrong then, Eric Van Rompuy, Sofie Wilmès and the opposition were right at that time, supported by the mathematics of the Court of Auditors. Don't we need it? You doubt it, I see. Why do you doubt that? Finally, a number of questions in the procedural sphere. Tomorrow is the nuclear cabinet, I understand, because all the committees have been suspended. Is that the start of the budgetary discussions? Is it your ambition to propose the budget to the State of the Union? You may or may not know that we have had a nice discussion about this with the group leaders. Our group has advocated a State of the Union with figures. The Prime Minister didn't want to commit himself to that. Is it now more or less the ambition of this government to start the political year for Parliament and the public with a quantified State of the Union? I think this would be a good idea. I think there are arguments for that. Finally, how thorough will you make the exercise? Are you going to say again that we are going to do it for this year and that we will see for the rest? You stumble a little from budgetary adjustment to budget adjustment to budget adjustment to budget. Mr Van Overtveldt, Mrs Wilmès, I think it would be good if this really were a multi-annual exercise in which not only the route becomes clear, but also where the measures are set out in time. As far as we are concerned, we absolutely need to look for a piece of investment. That's how I finish the story. It is precisely because of the lack of investment, concrete impulses and a firm dose of oxygen that we are here in budgetary terms. At the moment, we have the worst of two worlds. The budget is neither in order nor the economy is in full swing. Sorry, Mr Van Overtveldt, I know you don't like hearing that. In the old days, you were always there as the chickens to make such analyses. I think you might even have printed a Trends weekend edition if you had been chief editor in this situation. This situation has to do with the economic recipes of your policy, according to our analysis and that of a reasonable number of fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u13	Minister, for the sake of clarity, an updated estimate of a deficit of EUR 4 billion is particularly serious. No one underestimates the seriousness of that. What is less serious, however, is the criticism I have heard from the opposition here. After all, what do we see? The Planning Bureau changes its growth forecast and estimates of growth after the Brexit. According to the opposition, suddenly all the misery in the world is the fault of one minister, namely Minister Johan Van Overtveldt. That cannot be said to be particularly serious. This is also something that Mr Vanvelthoven's speech ignores. For the record, it was an interesting and even very interesting discussion about what the impact of the Brexit would be. It is true that opinions are divided on this issue. For example, I note that the Planning Office is much more pessimistic about this impact than the European Commission. It can therefore be discussed. The Brexit has an impact and also has an impact on government revenue. Even before, both Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois and Jan Jambon stated that they had reservations about the estimates of the Planning Bureau. Questions can therefore certainly be asked. I repeat, however, that these are estimates made by the Planning Bureau and revised by the Planning Bureau. These are not estimates drawn up by the Minister. There is therefore a need for some seriousness in this area. By the way, there's a pretty big contrast. This is where the criticism is not spared. No one disputes that this is a serious problem. However, I heard the same parties, in particular sp.a and Green, yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. In the Flemish Parliament, the Prime Minister proposed a budget in balance with additional investment. What is the comment of the same two parties? That is that the Flemish government is a club of accountants, which only pays attention to the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u14	That wasn't said. We would be satisfied if it were a club of accountants!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u15	Yesterday they said in a few explanations that it was a bunch of bookkeepers with too much attention to the figures. Now suddenly we hear a completely different rhetoric. That is not really consistent and consistent. Any consequence would improve credibility. Of course, it is a problem that has to be solved. No one will deny that. Everyone will have to take responsibility for this. It is a problem of 50% on the revenue side based on the revised estimate. Madam Secretary, that is why I would like to make an appeal to you. As Minister, you are responsible for the budget and expenditure. I should therefore like to ask you to give an overview or to give the figures, if you have them, of all the agreements that have been made in the past with regard to budgetary control, with regard to the tax shift and even more with regard to whether they have been implemented or at least started. This is an important task in which Parliament should have access so that we can at least discuss the result of savings on expenditure. The same applies to income measures, where we also want a state of affairs. It is clear that this will also be addressed. I am convinced that the bilan in this area will be positive. Of course, additional efforts will also be needed there. We can then discuss how big the impact of the Brexit will be, one thing is certain: the Brexit will have an impact. Same for the attacks, they will also have an impact. We'd better play it safe then. There are two options to address that problem, one of which is excluded. In this country, where the public debt is more than 50%, a new tax avalanche is excluded, which immediately pushes ahead with economic growth. The only way forward is to save on government spending. This is necessary in order to meet these challenges and to continue to strive for balance. This will also be necessary if the opposition's proposals are to be included. The opposition calls for additional investment, which I understand, but for that we need money. We can only release that money by saving on recurrent expenditure, on public consumption. Unless, of course, you argue for a new tax avalanche, but you will not be surprised that our group fully fits in with that. So much for my question, Mr President, about a list of all the measures and their impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u16	Mr Van de Velde has asked for his support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two comments: a technical one and a substantive one. Firstly, a technical remark. I am pleased that Mr Vanvelthoven is presenting the story of the methodology for tax revenue planning. Of course, Mr Vanvelthoven, you are not just doing that. Your party has had a number of specialists in the house for many years, so you are better aware than anyone that the methodology and assessment of tax revenues are rather flawed. You are now trying to dismiss this as if the Minister were trying to shift his personal responsibility to the administration, but nothing is less true. In the meantime, the FOD itself questions the methodology and requires it to be thoroughly considered. We have been carrying on with the systematic overestimate of revenue for a number of years. At present, it is estimated at about one billion out of 4.2 billion. Is it true that this overestimate is currently a form of correction in the 4.2 billion that is being held up? I would also like to know whether the government intends to review the methodology for the planning of revenue and to examine it further and, in the meantime, it is important that we pursue a prudent policy by maintaining that correction. We can, of course, have a very interesting discussion of the figures here every year, but if there is an effective error in terms of methodology, anyone can shoot opposition and majority, if the figures are left as they are today, at the Minister of Finance and say it is wrong. If we know in advance that the technique and the structure are not correct, we must also say so. Then we have to say that and say exactly what is happening. I'd like to hear from the government exactly what's going on. Is it true that this technique needs to be adapted? Will we keep that under review and carry out research and, in the meantime, maintain that correction? I think that's important. A second remark. I am hearing to varying degrees less of this, some of which raise a bit more doubts about the reform of corporate taxation. Mr Calvo, I hear you're questioning the tax shift. It cannot be said that the policy of the government has added a number of costs to the families and at the same time a tax shift that benefits the families. It's hard to reconcile. Let there be no doubt on our part. At the same time, when one questions the growth prospects, one must ensure that one gives oxygen to the economy in order to ensure that one does not get snowed under. We must not end up in a self-fulfilling prophecy, in which, on the basis of prospects, which, in my view, are very debatable, economic policy is undersnowing. As far as the reform of corporate taxation is concerned, I want to be very clear. We need economic growth. Financing will be to a large extent, almost entirely, through an extension of the taxable base, thus balancing it. For those who put that question: in the case of the reduction from 41% to 33.99 % in 2006, the decline had been recovered over a year and a half, at that time with less efforts in the area of the taxable base. I would like to support that exercise in that regard. At the same time, we must dare to draw a line at some point. We cannot say that there are insufficient controls in the area of company rates, that the taxable basis is unclear and that there is a need to work with deductions and at the same time do nothing about it. At the same time, the clarity and simplification that we need to create in the area of corporate taxation is also an efficiency exercise, in which much of our administrative power can be used to improve control. As a result, a double profit will be made. It will not only be possible to increase the taxable base and to install a much clearer system, but it will also be possible to do an efficiency exercise at the same time. In addition, of course, there is also the international note. Let us be clear: we do not live in a context where we pay on ourselves. Our neighbouring countries are organising themselves very clearly, and they have done so more quickly than has been the case here. The efforts we have made over the last three years should have been done ten years earlier, so to speak, but we are here now. Let us now face the economic reality and give the international note as well. I have one final question to ask the government, a bit like Mrs Pas: no taboos. If we start the exercise, let us take the economic asset of a corporate tax reform with us, so that we do not doubt economic growth. Finally, one more question. As far as recovery is concerned, if I am well informed, about one billion is open, which is recoverable but is not recovered for all kinds of reasons. The only thing I would ask this government to do is to sit down with the administration and, above all, with the local financial services and ask the local tax offices and how we can make a very practical recovery of that billion. Those people are shouting for solutions that have been waiting for years to ensure that one billion can be recovered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Ministers for being here. Autumn 2016 is also an important moment in achieving the goals of our federal government agreement. There are some very big challenges in that agreement, they are known. Let us not forget the first challenge: jobs, jobs and jobs. I now see that we have prospects to evolve, not in the public sector but in the private sector, towards the growth of new employment with nearly 70 000 new jobs. The current government is therefore well on the right track in this area. A second important objective in the coalition agreement is the pursuit of a budgetary balance in 2018. That, of course, means a huge challenge for the next three years. Corrections will be required for the 2016 budget, for which disappointing figures and a whole series of setbacks can be put forward. Firstly, the asylum and migration crisis is no longer being discussed here today, and I would like to mention just how fast it is in people's minds. Secondly, there is terrorism, which we have seen happening at our own front door, in our own capital here in Brussels. This has an impact on all other cities, on the shopping behaviour and on the trade events of Antwerp, so to speak, Ostend. Thirdly, there is the economic impact of the Brexit, which is very difficult to estimate at the moment. Fourthly, let us admit this: the woeful attitude and functioning of the European institutions at the moment, in which there is ultimately a need for a boost, to adjust and correct things. Minister, a third major objective is to sustainably reform and clean up our public administration. A great deal has already been done in this area, but I fear that we will also have to step up our efforts in this area. Mr Minister, I would like to back you up by saying that a budget is the estimates of revenue, whether we like it or not. That has nothing to do with modern math. I know from experience how hard it can be. The only thing that can be done is careful windows. In the end, we always have to wait for reality on the ground. I give you more than anyone else in this area the benefit of my confidence in the approach you are taking in this respect. During my previous discussion, I referred to a reform of registration and gift rights, which subsequently generated a turbo effect in terms of revenue. The only question is when is the turbo going to work? These are, of course, policy risks that we must, but also dare to take. I am also partly in agreement with the colleagues from the opposition. We shouldn't call each other Liesbet. Over the next few weeks, the government is facing a massive task of pursuing these budgetary objectives. We must also have the ambition, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to strive for a fair, sustainable, efficient and effective corporate tax reform. I agree with Mr Van de Velde that this reform should have one objective: to achieve fiscal compliance where a manager finally stops looking for alternative channels. This simplification, the sustainable assurance of the reform, must ensure that the recording equipment itself can ultimately be used in a different way and that we can ultimately give our entrepreneurs, big and small, some confidence. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I also believe that it is important that we continue to clean up. We should not clean up because we like it, because that is absolutely not nice or thankful, but we should do so in order to create investment space which in turn has to make the economic turbo turn on. By creating investment and making room for it, by continuing to promote and support economic growth in order to create jobs in this way... Jobs that are not only economically important but also socially important may not be enough to underline this. Any unemployed person we can help to get to work is also an improvement in the social environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I believe that this approach to job creation is the only guarantee of sustainable social security funding. Let that also be the goal of this government. Minister, Minister, in other words, I believe that we need a great deal of action over the next few weeks. I would like to call for decisive action, not only with the Ministers of the Budget and Finance, but with all the members of the government, in order to achieve the goals set out above in their policy areas and where it can strengthen ambition. On behalf of the Open Vld Group, I would like to confirm the confidence in your approach. I'd say good luck, because that'll be more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, my questions are in line with the questions that have been asked. The government will have to take tough decisions in the next 14 days. I think it is important that we, as Parliament, take a good look at the figures that have been put forward here, which come from a budget administration document. A very heavy effort of 2.3 billion will have to be made in 2016 and one of 4.2 billion in 2017. I think it is a good thing that this Parliament, this committee, understands what these figures mean. Everyone interprets them in different ways. I would therefore like to ask the following questions. In 2016, we aim to reduce the deficit by 0.6% of GDP, which is what the European Commission is asking for. The effort we still have to make, according to the note, is equivalent to 0.55%, or almost 0.56%, to achieve our goal this year, in 2016. Is that possible? What kind of measures are we planning to achieve in 2016? I am not talking about 2018 or 2019 or about the balance in the budget, and we will be able to discuss this later. For this year, the figures indicate that we still have to reach 0.55% in order to achieve our European goal. Europe does not talk about balance, it says that there must be a deficit reduction in that order of magnitude every year. My question is this. It is now almost October, is it the government's ambition to meet the big challenge in 2016 and not to exceed the 3 % standard? I am pleased that the opposition is now putting great emphasis on this. I have heard Mr Gilkinet say several times at the beginning of the legislature: we should not achieve that 3%, that is deflation, that is European hardness and so on. Mr Calvo also said that the Stability Pact was rejected by the Greens. Now they are the great defenders of that 3 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u21	Let me criticize you, Mr Calvo. Apparently, you're not used to that anymore. You get nervous every time I say something about the greens. What is the government's objective for 2016? That is a very important question. As well as the question of why we didn't get our tax revenue in 2016. Overall, it's about 1.3 billion. Why didn't we make it? Some say it's economic growth, but I've calculated it again, based on a number of projections: 1 % less economic growth means two billion less tax revenue, 0.5 % less growth means one billion less tax revenue and 0.2 % less growth The Planning Bureau predicts 1.2 % growth, which is 0.2 % less. The economic parameters of the Plan Bureau therefore account for only 400 million out of a total of 1.3 billion. So there is a billion that cannot be detected on the basis of macroeconomic parameters. I hear a lot of comments from the Planning Bureau on this, but we should therefore find a billion dollars. My question to the Minister is: where do we find it? We have figures on withholding tax, VAT, advance payments and excise duties. It is a good thing that the withholding tax is paying more than anticipated, as this indicates a growing economic activity, but these various components also contain a number of negative values. Where did they come from? I am thinking of withholding tax and VAT. Those negatives aren't just about the attacks. The proceeds of a number of increases do not apply either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u23	Mr Calvo, may I also ask a few questions? You can give the answers later. As regards the analysis of the 2016 budget, what are the different elements of the disappointing revenue? These are not only by declaring lower economic growth that the Planbureau predicts. For 2017, we are indeed facing a major challenge. The 4.2 billion subscribes to the Stability Pact and the balance path to 2018. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I heard you say on the weekend that the 4.2 billion is a structural deficit reduction of about 0.8%. You said that we should only reach 0.6%. So we can do 0.2 % less, accounting for 800 million. My question is this. Does this mean that if the government reduces that 0.8 % to 0.6%, it will leave the structural balance and the growth path, as set out in the Stability Pact? It is my personal view that the 2018 and 2019 discussion is less important than that we achieve 0.6% years apart, which unfortunately we did not do in 2016. In 2017, we certainly have to realize them as well. In view of the delay we have experienced, that 0.8 percent is the minimum minimum, to meet our European commitments in the coming years. After all, the European Commission always argues in structural deficits over two years. We shall therefore have to do so. So my question to the government is whether it is true what the Minister for the Budget said at the weekend at that amount of EUR 4.2 billion, namely that we can limit ourselves to 0.6% and we should not achieve that 0.8%? A second question has already been asked a few times, it is about the commission of a billion euros. I think I have to read in the press that EUR 4.2 billion of commission is a billion euros. That's some kind of buffer, just in case it's inconvenient. In my personal opinion, that is a very strange way of making budgets. Provision can be made for commissions. However, this must be done for the whole of the budget. If this is only done for revenue, the question arises as to what the ratio is. We are therefore facing difficult weeks. I hope that the government will also look at the expenditure side for 2017, given the deficit in social security of EUR 700 million, partly due to higher inflation. There are many elements that will be considered. However, in order to have good solutions, we must first make a good analysis. Before a therapy is prescribed, it must first be known what the various elements to be taken into account are. It is also important for Parliament that we hear from the government how it looks at the situation, which nevertheless raises a lot of concerns. However, there is also a government to provide solutions to these concerns. In recent years, Parliament has had the tradition of keeping the figures well under review. The Court of Auditors, the European Commission and the National Bank of Belgium will also be present. We have a lot of advisors, who always point to holes, if there are holes. So I would really like to ask that your budget be credible. A credible budget is, for me, the most important, regardless of the 2018 or 2019 discussion. We are now facing serious challenges. I therefore hope that you will give us answers, which will serve as a basis for the discussions that we will have in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u24	Mr President, with everything I have heard as questions and remarks, there is not much to add. However, some elements of the report of the Federal Office of the Plan were not mentioned. I hear that it is "the failure of government policy", etc. In this case, it is necessary to deliberately conceal the remarks made by the Federal Office of the Plan on the situation 2016; indeed, there is an improvement in the growth due, according to the Federal Office of the Plan, to a resumption of domestic demand. It's a matter of concern when we announce that 2017 will be a disaster. There are improvements in employment in 2016 in terms of reducing unemployment; the employment rate is showing a slight increase. These are not indications of bad policy. These are results we're trying to achieve. When one hears the budget deficit forecasts, it is obvious that one does not leap of joy, but one must above all remain calm, analyze the situation, the exact figures. I, too, sometimes wonder, like Mr. Dispa, about the numbers that are given, then that change... The real situation, what needs to be done with it, and the possibilities must be questioned. I hear it's about spending, but it's also about revenue. It is true that we must question, in relation to the measures voted on, the fact that some of the revenue that was planned does not come about. We have to ask ourselves how we can achieve them. We're talking about the redesign by saying it's something magical that doesn't happen. Redesign is also a will. A will doesn't always come easily. Dear Mr. Laaouej, when you have a problem with household discount recipes, you have to ask yourself why and how to try to counteract this. There is also a problem with excise duties. We said there was a risk that people would cross the border. I am in a good position to talk about it because I live in the south of the province of Luxembourg. I can tell you that indeed, a lot of people do. But was that reason enough not to increase excise duties? Did you have to find anything else? Irrespective of the gougy laughter or the outrageous words of Mr. Van Hees, for example, we need to ask ourselves the right questions and analyze. I am also waiting for the response of the two ministers; they also did not jump in joy during the weekend by learning what the new forecasts were. So we're going to get to work trying to actually get the situation right. You have asked the right questions, Mr President, in relation to the tax buffer, European commitments and beyond. We need to lock up the situation as best we can to try not to get to this slip. Mr Gilkinet says there is a hole in the budget, but no, the budget is not yet done! We're just wondering how we're gonna balance it. I didn't say everything was fine, but you have to try to stay calm instead of frightening the population by shouting everywhere that we're going to undermine social spending, try to raise taxes, etc. I have already heard a variety of recipes that the opposition announced when they have not yet begun to talk about! It's still amazing! There, Mr. Chairman, I have little more to add, except that I regret the outrages of some in the vocabulary used. However, I have a question about the position of the Walloon government, since the federated entities still carried out the fiscal year. When I hear the Minister-President of the Walloon Region say that his budget is in balance but that there is a 300 million hole due to the federal, okay but can a federated entity say that? What are the consequences of this in relation to our European commitments and in relation to the commitments we have to respect the budgetary balance? It's still a question to ask. Flanders has a balanced budget, Wallonia not yet, that will come. In the meantime, come and say that it is the federal fault and do nothing, what impact can it have on our position? These are details I wanted to add. I'm sure you'll bring the answers we're waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u25	I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions. Now the government has the floor. I give the floor to Minister Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank you for organising this sitting. As you know, we are always available to Parliament. If there are any questions, we are always ready and happy to answer. Nor do I resist the desire to mention the Feast of the French Community, given the intervention made at the beginning of the meeting. The Feast of the French Community is also the Feast of lovers of the French language. I therefore wonder whether it is not possible to consult them to see if we can find means of expression that are consistent with the respect of institutions and people, without affecting the quality of the interventions. Having said that, I will now devote myself to what is of interest to us, that is to say the budget. At the request of the Government, the FPS Budget updated the Monitoring Committee's report, taking into account the economic parameters for 2016 and 2017 published in the framework of the economic budget of the Federal Planning Bureau of 8 September 2016. The growth of the Belgian economy was revised upwards compared to the June outlook. This growth is now estimated at 1.4 % instead of 1.2 %. Overall, employment would increase by 1% during the same year. These elements point to a dynamic economic activity, an encouraging signal confirming that the measures taken by the government will gradually lead to a consolidation of the economy, in the absence of external shocks. Employment would increase by 0,7 % in 2017. On the other hand, GDP would increase less than originally planned, in particular by 1.2 % instead of 1.5 %. As the Planning Bureau says, this downward revision can be explained by the uncertainty that the vote in favour of the Brexit in the European Union has led. Although it is difficult to assess its impact, it is clear that this uncertainty linked to an external factor will exert pressure on economic growth. On the basis of this new macroeconomic outlook, the government has instructed the FPS Budget macro-budgetary service to update the major aggregates of the July 2016 Monitoring Committee's reports in order to assess the budgetary situation as best as possible. From this exercise, it appears that, in order to maintain the budgetary trajectory provided for in the 2016-2019 stability programme, an additional effort still needs to be made in relation to what had been calculated in the July monitoring committee. This effort was increased to 1.8 billion, and even a little less, for the 2016-2017 period, to a cumulative amount of 4.2 billion in 2017. This amount is expected to improve the structural balance of entity 1, as set out in the stability programme referred to above, by 0.56% this year and by 0.84% in 2017. This combined effort of $4.2 billion requires an additional $2.3 billion this year and an additional $1.9 billion next year, while the breakdown of the effort in July was $1.3 billion and will be an additional $1.1 billion in 2017. This is therefore clearly a revision of the overall amount of the effort and its breakdown. I will now detail the revisions that have been made between the July report and the update made by the macro-budgetary service of the Budget SPF. To facilitate your understanding, I will present this table by fiscal year. For this year, in the July report of the Monitoring Committee, the initial effort was estimated at EUR 1.3 billion. It is now at 2.3 billion, a differential of 986 million. This is mainly due to the downward revision of total tax revenues of 540 million and the updating of the cyclical correction following the update of the output gap. Indeed, because of a narrower gap between observed GDP and potential GDP, as a result of the upward revision of growth for this year - which is undisputed - the impact of the cyclical correction is therefore more limited than was estimated in July. This is therefore an additional effort of EUR 474 million. Without wishing to anticipate the explanations that will be given by my colleague in Finance, I can already tell you that the downward revision of the amount of tax revenue between July and September finds its main reason, and you will have understood it, in a decrease in the tax, excise and VAT prepayment. For 2017, Entity I's nominal balance was revised upwards by EUR 1.67 billion between July and September. Several elements explain this review. First, there is the impact of the downward revision of total tax revenue by 916 million, of which.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This revision largely reflects the impact of the downward revision of the growth parameter, as the growth forecast evolved from 1.5 % to 1.2 % between July and September. It should also be taken into account that Mr Dedecker is very interested in these figures, with the upward revision of 184 million of primary expenditure due to the overrun of the central index, which will now take place in August instead of December, as originally planned. This change in the calendar leads to costs for public finances through the indexation of bets for public office and social benefits. The revision of Entity I's nominal balance in 2017 is also explained by the revision of the social security balance by 698 million due to the deterioration of expected revenue, taking into account the revision of the growth parameters and the increase in expenditure resulting from the overrun of the spill-over index, which will now take place in August. The impact of these revisions should also, as is the case for 2016, be accompanied by the impact of the adjustment of the cyclical adjustment. This latter impact should be less significant due to the downward revision of potential GDP, thus limiting output gap. The impact of the review, and hence the additional effort to be made, is estimated at 247 million. Working groups are currently meeting and, following the analysis of the experts, the government will decide, in compliance with the European regulations, the final amount of the effort to be made. I would remind you, however, that if the exercise is going to be difficult – it is not nothing – it is not new either. In 2014, for example, an effort had been identified to the tune of €5.3 billion and this government will take on its responsibilities, as it has done so far, and will work with seriousness and serenity, an attitude that I encourage for everyone. You will understand, Mr Calvo, that at this stage I am not going to move forward on the tracks that are on the table to make the effort. Nevertheless, as I have already had the opportunity to point out, budgetary work invariably revolves around three levers: a reduction in expenditure, an increase in revenue and a change in the trajectory. These levers, as you also know, are not exclusive to each other; you can work on the three levers at the same time if you wish. This budgetary work will indeed be apprehended, as always, within the Kern, within the framework of the conclave, while bearing in mind the need to strike an appropriate balance between the consolidation of state finances, public finances and economic recovery. I always say that if you have a balanced budget and you don't have a dynamic economy and a job creation, your budget won't stand in balance for long. These two objectives must therefore be pursued in parallel. In addition, the Government continues to keep in mind that the amount of effort by 2017 as currently calculated is the effort required to maintain an improvement in the structural balance in 2017, as foreseen in the stability programme, at 0.84%. It is indeed necessary to compare this rate with the minimum of 0.6% required for Belgium as a whole. Therefore, the results of the budgetary work of the federated entities will also be important for the European Commission in order to gauge the achievement of this result by 0.6%. And we also bear in mind, of course, that a precaution of 1 billion is still foreseen at the level of tax revenues. And it is all these points, all these possible levers that will be the subject of a debate in Kern and a decision by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to overlap my answer too much with that of Mrs Wilmès, but there will inevitably be overlaps. I hope, of course, that our figures are consistent, but I am, frankly, quite reassured. As decided in the government, last summer's Monitoring Committee figures were adapted to the new economic budget of the Federal Planning Office. One of the key elements in these new figures is the reduced economic growth forecast for 2017, with explicit reference by the Planning Bureau to the impact of the Brexit. It is an adjustment, from 1.5 to 1.2 %, which is substantial. I have two reservations about this. Firstly, I note that the European Central Bank and other bodies are now making a more limited assessment of the consequences of the Brexit. As Mr Van Mechelen pointed out earlier, economic growth is certainly always very difficult to predict, but I note that there is a striking discrepancy. Secondly, the channel through which the Brexit's impact on the Belgian economy is traced is, of course, a recession in England, less export opportunities and thus an impact on economic activity in Belgium. What have we seen in a few weeks? Almost all the indicators around the British economy are rising again. Whether that's structural, no one knows. We will have to wait and see, but if we look at a number of indicators that have been published for a few weeks now, at least there is no recession for the British economy at the moment. Quid in three or six months? I look forward with great interest and curiosity to the economic growth rate that will be announced by the IMF next week, within the framework of its World Economic Outlook, and I am curious to see to what extent that corresponds to the 1.2 that was put forward by the Planning Bureau and which we have, as it should be, entered in the new exercise. Taking into account these new data, according to the FPS Budget and Management Control for 2017, a structural effort of EUR 4.2 billion is needed to stay on the current agreed trajectory towards a structural balance in 2018. Mrs Wilmès has just mentioned it; that is a little over two billion more than we assumed a few months ago. The difference is almost fifty-fifty on the revenue and expenditure side. Tax revenue for 2017 is indeed estimated to be 916 million lower, and the social security balance is deteriorating by 698 million. Primary expenditure is rising by 134 million. Tax payments increase by 111 million, mainly due to higher payments to the Communities and the Regions. Fortunately, there are also the windfalls in interest charges. With regard to tax revenues, their 2016 re-estimate takes into account two new elements: on the one hand, an adjustment due to the change in macroeconomic parameters as calculated by the Planning Office; I believe that the Budget Minister has already indicated or explained what this was about, among other things, with the output gap. On the other hand, we can now take into account the actual revenues of July and August. For 2016, we therefore result in revenues of EUR 540 million lower than the amount of the monitoring committee a few months ago. The most important differences compared to July figures are mainly at the level of the following tax categories: household discount (- EUR 387 million), excise duty (- EUR 122 million) and VAT (- EUR 167 million). These amounts are largely corrected by higher estimates of earnings for recruitment. I now take up the three points I have just mentioned. First, the household discount: the loss is mainly at the level of the dividend discount. In the July monitoring committee estimates, only the figures for the first three months were known, during which period relatively few dividends were paid, so that the figures were not representative to estimate total revenue on an annual basis. On the basis of the achievements of the first six months, which are lower, we can predict that the initial target for this category of revenue will not be achieved. The decline in dividend payments is a phenomenon that we also observed last year. After an in-depth analysis of the FPS Finances, it turns out that earlier measures, which accelerated revenues in 2013 and 2014, result in a structural decline in revenues last year and this year. One of the important elements in this regard is the furniture discount on the liquidation bonus, which was increased in early 2013, from 10 to 25 per cent. In order to reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurs, a favourable transitional measure has been introduced. Until 1 October 2014, existing reserves, approved by the general meeting by 31 March 2013, could be paid at the 10 % discount rate provided that and to the extent that at least the amount collected is immediately incorporated into the capital, in the last accounting year that ends before 1 October 2014. This provision has been used extensively. The return on this measure was budgeted over time at €80 million, but reported a significant multiple of this amount. As a result of this regulation, these companies cannot pay dividends if they do not want to be taxed. As a result of the above measure, capital reductions are treated as a dividend payment, which is taxed at the normal rate in case of a decrease before 2019 by SMEs and even before 2023 for large companies. In the last steps taken under the normal liquidation reserve and the exceptional liquidation reserve, the scope has been severely limited, this measure applies only to SMEs. As far as excise duties are concerned, excise revenue is rising by 6.9 % but is lagging behind the budgetary objective of increasing by 8.3 %. In particular, the revenue from excise duties on tobacco and alcohol is not performing as expected. On further analysis, we do indeed see significant volume effects which, in the case of tobacco and alcohol..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As regards VAT, the lower value is mainly due to a re-evaluation of the revenue from the decision to increase the VAT on electricity from 6% to 21% from 1 September 2015. Following a re-examination by the FPS Finance, it appears that the invoicing method of electricity companies results in the measure not in 2016 but only in 2017 at full cruising speed, which is 712 million. The estimated revenue of 712 million is therefore not affected. However, the measure does not reach cruising speed until year three. In 2015, there was a reception of 159 million. In 2016, 425 million was added, giving a cumulative amount of 584 million. In 2017, we will then achieve the remaining 128 million, which still gives a total of 712 million, with some time shift due to the billing method. The evolution of real VAT receipts indicates a modest growth in real consumption so far. The March attacks are certainly not strange because they also lead to a fall in consumption compared to the predictions made. As far as 2017 is concerned, Mrs Wilmès has already mentioned a number of things: the downward revision amounts to 916 million. Of course, this is the 540 million plus a small extra 400 million for 2017. Firstly, this has to do with the worse departure base that 2016 shows and, secondly, with the downward revision of a number of economic parameters, in particular a negative revision of the company's primary income and the negative revision of the real growth of salaries, both of which, of course, weigh on revenue. As far as the estimated forecasts of revenue are concerned, I do indeed share very much the concern expressed by the FPS Finance, whether the model used to make the forecasts is still sufficiently adapted to economic reality. The Prime Minister has also pointed out in recent days that if a number of structural reforms are to be implemented, there will be a change in the reality to which we need to adapt. What new measures are we taking to fill the deficit? This discussion is currently under way in the government. Mr Calvo, we are working very hard on this; it is not that we are just getting started. This is happening within the context of the coalition agreement, which expressly states that there can be no increase in tax pressure. We must also be very careful to ensure that the economic momentum that exists today remains. The number of start-ups was never this high, the number of bankruptcies is constantly falling and there is a very marked increase in job creation in the private sector. Very important: in the private sector, not in the public sector. Certain specific measures taken by the government appear to be in doubt. I will take out two because they keep coming back in the discourse, namely the Cayman tax and the diamond tax. For these two, as for all others, we are following the Monitoring Committee, which in turn has been supported by estimates from the relevant public service. As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, an estimate of 460 million is quoted, which would be an upper limit. That's what it says. However, it also states that there are underestimates in that estimate, for three reasons. In the discourse they are now withheld, but they are also in that report and they are equally real. Firstly, three major countries, Switzerland, the United States and Luxembourg, were not included in the sample used on the basis of data from the National Bank to calculate the effects of the Cayman tax. I believe that in this context of fiscal arrangements we cannot overestimate the importance of Luxembourg, Switzerland and, to a certain extent, the United States. Secondly, only countries with 0 % tax rate or valuation rate were included, while in reality, of course, attention is paid to countries with tax rates between 0 % and 15%. Thirdly, it was also assumed in that calculation that what is made possible by the caiman configuration in the context of the investigation would be tackled at a rate of 25%. However, it is clear that this will result in a number of cases which will be taxed much more in the personal income tax and will therefore, by definition, be subject to a much higher rate of valuation than that 25%. So, the initial calculation was indeed linear with an upper limit. At the same time, however, these are not my words, but they are contained in the analysis. With regard to the diamond tax, I can assume that it is sufficiently well known that we have made proactive contact with Europe in order to ensure that what we would do here, namely to guarantee us EUR 50 million more income from the diamond sector, would also be accepted by Europe. It's time. We have the approval of Europe in black and white on paper. In the Various Provisions Act, we will pass the legislative amendment we need, in order to bring the relevant law into line with what Europe is asking for and with the guaranteed yield of EUR 50 million. On the budget path, a structural balance is set out in the government agreement in 2018. The concrete path towards balance will of course be part of the ongoing discussions within the government. However, the continuation of structural reforms is at least as important. If we make additional efforts in this area, which is also Europe's clear motto, it will benefit the budget, especially if we focus on the structural balance in the budgetary discussions. Finally, on the reform of corporate taxation, the proposal I made to the government is budget neutral. The people who have done the verification of the figures are the same people who do the calculation for the Supreme Court of Finance. I therefore assume that the figures are very similar and at least give the best possible estimate of the effects of the various measures proposed. In the longer term, it is realistic to assume that simplification, mainly by cutting and restructuring in the maze of deductions, will create greater legal certainty and justice and increase investment. Investment creates economic growth and jobs. This too has a positive impact on public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u28	I would like to thank the Budget and Finance Ministers for their answers. We are in the context of the exchange of views where each group has the opportunity to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u29	Mr President, what is important and interesting is not what the ministers say, but what they do not say. We asked them a number of questions, we asked them how they planned to achieve balance in 2018. The Minister of Finance tells us that this is in the government agreement. Yes, thank you, we also read it. But at the same time, there are no 36 solutions. Interestingly, I hear the Members of the N-VA address questions to the Minister of Budget, saying, "Madam Minister, get out of the woods, tell us how you're going to save money." My colleague from Open Vld, Mr. Van Mechelen, said, "We must continue to clean up." These two parties of the government are already taking the lead: we will have to cut back in public services, and more than likely in social security. It was the Minister of Finance's speech in the press. So I have absolutely no illusions. I know where they're going to get the money. This will be either in the public services, in the social security system or in the increase in household taxes. I really have no doubt about that. On the other hand, they do not seem to give up their corporate tax reform, of which it is known that the epics presented so far, in the cacophony we know, do not indicate that they will seek budgetary neutrality. Anyway, there's nothing reassuring about what we've heard so far. Let us also note a lot of differences in approaches, because barely Minister Geens said, "I can't make any savings in my department," that others said, "There is no taboo." That is, we can also go to the Department of Justice. So if they're ready to go to the Department of Justice, whose needs are known, we don't have to wonder what they're going to do in the other departments. So we know how this will end, that is to say, the extension of the austerity policy. Then you will, Madam Budget Minister, keep trying to empty the sea with a teaspoon when you go here or there, you have people in your government who make budget brutality a profession of faith. They are people who, blindly ideological, consider that one can continue to cut in the means of the state. I can understand that this corresponds to the fundamental political agenda of a major majority party, the largest majority party, the N-VA. For them, in the end, the degling of the federal state is never but a step towards the disappearance of the federal state. But in the MR, we let this kind of thing happen, whether we're the budgetary accomplices of political separatism, it's something that's not admissible. Because that's where we're going. We are moving towards the organized ruin of the country. The pressure on the budget will ultimately put pressure on social security, that is to say, what is still the cement of our community, of the Belgian state. I see a considerable danger in what's going on. Because beyond the $4.2 billion, there are 8 to 9 billion pointed by the Plan Office and the National Bank. Don't lose sight of them! Don't lose sight, Mrs Wilmès, of the cunning reports of the Court of Auditors. And it is not the Minister of Finance's explanations that will reassure us. Your famous 1 billion buffer, keep it, Mrs. Wilmès! Don't let it happen when they come to say, "Let's forget the buffer" or more precisely: "Let's reintegrate it, it will give us a margin." Be careful! - Tax on intercommunals: appeal to the Constitutional Court. - Tax on Sicafi: non-structural recipe. - Cayman tax: we are explained the extension of the scope of application; lawyers explain through tax reviews that it is a legal passory, that there is a way to circumvent it. - Tax regularization: we know how late the government has been. - Reform of the savings account on the liquidation reserve: the Court of Auditors points out that this is not a structural revenue. - Redeign from the administration: one continues within the majority to send back the hot potato: it is not me, it is him; it is not him, it is her. And every time you try to charge the minister for the budget. When will the Minister of Public Service come with a serious plan? We still have nothing. They have planned 750 million by 2019. In short, the budget has been flouted, and the uncertainties have been repeated. We are really facing a deplorable management of public finances. I don't know where you're going. Our job is no longer to worry about how you manage things and how your government works. Our job is to make sure that you stop battling the population. Stop with consumer taxes! Stop with index jumps! Stop with the impunity of fraudsters! Bahamas Leaks, Panama Papers, how many more scandals will it take for you, in the end, to "shove", to say it prosaically? And, little parenthesis, Mr. President, in politics, you can be tough, but there is a way to never be insulting. This balance can be achieved. Mrs Wilmès, you mentioned that in 2014, the previous government had to find EUR 5.3 billion. I'll try to check the number. Let me remind you that in 2013, our economic growth was close to zero and that we had to digest – we did it together – the 2008 financial crisis that followed a public debt crisis that significantly affected both economic growth in Europe – I repeat, by almost 0% in 2013 – and state public finances. In this case, you still see an increase of 1.4% in 2014. This is not the reason for such a considerable decline in revenues and, above all, a lack of anticipation in the head of government, which we noted. So there are different ways to manage a budget, either we do it properly, or we keep putting the dust under the carpet. What I hear is a denial of reality. I think you are not really aware of what you are facing and what it will be important to do to remedy it. I will allow my colleague Crusnière to speak on the subject of Brexit. But we must also stop with the Prime Minister's arguments! That's enough of the stories! This is enough to say: "Yes, but when structural reforms are carried out, it is normal that tax revenues should initially be reduced". In this case, why didn't you take it into account at the initial stage by saying at that point that if we reduce the income from social contributions, we will have a hole in social security and that, therefore, we will take it into account. Why not warn that by making a number of tax gifts here or there, revenues would decrease proportionally. Why didn't you do it? No! Let us remember the Prime Minister's speech! It was the magic wand. We maximized the feedback and everything would be fine. Then, as usual, we're caught up in the facts. What's hot about the Minister of Finance's speech is that he's coming back on the plates. I thank him for answering my question. That being said, congratulations to the partners on using the Minister of Finance as a scarecrow, etc.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The responsibility is collegial! It is the responsibility of the government and not of one man! We should stop now, within the coalition, throwing away the hot potato! I saw the presence of the Open Vld group leaders from the CD&V. I was wondering what was going on. Is there a government "crisette" perfume? Of course, they're busy looking for a culprit! Too easy! Too easy! Everyone's responsibilities must be open to Parliament. We'll have a chance to get back. Mr Minister of Finance, as far as the furniture discount is concerned, you are telling me that there have indeed been slides from year to year because of measures taken by the previous governments and that it is true that, for example, on the liquidation bonus, this has changed a lot. You have extended widely the scope of the favourable measure you have taken. But what is most fundamental is that this argument must then be applied continuously to all revenue. The Court of Auditors very often tells you: "Be careful, take into account the elasticity of the behaviour of economic agents. Be careful, when you take a tax measure, there may be an effect of anticipation in the head of households, for example to take only them, or businesses". So, be careful in estimating revenue. You have constantly taken the maximum terminal. You've always maximized the recipes. That's what you're paying for today. Care must be taken even if, at some point, a budgetary conclave has to be closed quickly. It's better to take another week. No, we want to close the budget right now! And here we add a zero, that's an extra number. You swell, you swell, you swell, and then the baudrouch deflates! There! I can understand that at some point, when we pulled the toothpaste out of the tube, it's hard to put it back in. That's right! But in the end, we will pay particular attention to the measures you are going to take because domestic demand is the fuel of the economy. If you keep putting pressure on domestic demand, you're going to hit the economic machine. She's already, by the way. But you're going to strengthen, worsen the phenomenon. So stop bothering households! Now try to support demand with real measures that go through support for real, not misleading purchasing power. It's not about giving one hand to take over the other. And above all, we must be able to restore confidence to households as well as to businesses because, when they do not have economic opportunities because households are anxious, businesses also suffer. That is all that needs to be taken into account. This will be your challenge. As for us, I repeat, our priority is to prevent your austerity policy from going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u30	Mr President, I have rightly heard a number of colleagues say that a budget is an estimate and that a number of circumstances make that estimate not very precise. That is obvious, and I understand all that. However, when drawing up a budget, it is extremely important to try to do so seriously and to take account of the opinions received. I can understand that people do not want to take into account the opposition's opinions. I have just given a whole list of measures that the government has decided on in terms of revenue through tax revenue, which either the Court of Auditors or its own administration have raised concerns. They constantly asked questions and noted that they were unachievable. Sometimes even the word utopian fell. The estimates are precarious. If this is never taken into account, problems will arise. That's what I just mentioned. I hear that again now. Minister, in connection with the withholding tax, I can hear you say that part of it is due to the fact that income has been affected by the liquidation bonus. Last year, the government introduced a liquidation bonus scheme, which allowed people to avoid the 25% by paying anticipating 10%. I hear you say today that we are now faced with less income from the withholding tax. Of course it is. I've been looking it up for a while. In the opinion, in the discussion and in the memo from the Minister's own FPS Finance, this was said with so many words in September 2014. It was said that account should be taken of the fact that, if one does so, there will be a loss at a later date. If this is not taken into account when drawing up the budget, problems will arise. That is what we have been seeing constantly in this Minister of Finance over the last two years. What we hear again today is that everything others, Court of Auditors, administration and sometimes even Europe, say is not so important. Once again, we must see that progress is being made. In the meantime, however, we have serious problems with our budget. The question is indeed how these problems will be solved. We will undoubtedly be able to discuss this in the coming weeks, but if I hear now that the money has to be collected from social security, we know where it is actually being made. I'm reluctant to do that. In the long run, one would even start to think that not taking the advice into account will consciously happen in order to be able to cut where one wants to cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u31	Mr President, I shall first address the question of the French language. I will simply reply to the minister that I do not think I have committed a language gap. Of course, I sometimes use a somewhat raw language, which is the language of the people. It is true that I am not used to speaking at the Lorraine Circle, at the Bilderberg, at the Davos Forum, like the Prime Minister, but the essential thing is not there. If you want to give me a dictionary, "language of the people – language of the Circle of Lorraine", I would like to study it and use it from now on. Having said that, I note, Madam Minister, a difference between your response and that of the Minister of Finance in terms of prospects. Indeed, you tell us that things are under negotiation and that you are not going to tell us anything about how to fill the hole. The Minister of Finance also tells us that the matter is under discussion and that he can't say anything, except that the government agreement says that there will be no new taxes, on the one hand, and that the balance is planned for 2018, on the other. He said this: let us read the report again! You have quoted the government agreement twice, Minister of Finance, on the issue of taxes and tax burden. You're telling me that taxes and tax burden are two different things. You'll also have to give me your dictionary! On the other hand, with regard to the timing of the return to balance, you also invoked the government agreement. I see two things clearly put forward by the Minister of Finance, while the Minister of Budget says everything is to be negotiated. On the one hand, everything is to be negotiated, there are no taboos; on the other hand, there are already taboos. We know that for the N-VA, social security is far from being a taboo. On the contrary, it would be the fact of not touching it that would almost taboo. I find your answers, on which we're not going to linger, a little light. About the furniture discount, it's the fault of the liquidation bonus. Why have you been too optimistic, minister? Maybe to say, "Look, we're touching capital." But if you remember correctly, the liquidation bonus was more a long-term gift than a measure that brought in money. In the short term, perhaps, but not in the long term. As far as VAT is concerned, it is the fault of the electricity bills. Was it something unknown, something unforeseeable? Or it's the fault of the attacks! But on the question of your economic model and its negative effects on consumption in particular, you do not say a word. I understand, of course, that you did not want to consider this kind of explanation, which is contrary to your model. On excise duties, it seems to me that, in the budgetary discussions, we warned you of the possible impact on alcohol consumption. You told us that you had taken it into account, that you had models of elasticity, that there were no problems, and that everything was planned. Obviously, we have not planned everything, Minister! Growth problems? It's the fault of the Brexit. When it goes wrong in Belgium, it is the fault of the international context. What worries me is your words, Minister of Budget. You say that there is budgetary balance, but there are also measures for growth. You are a very good summary of how this government is governed. We're always looking for a balanced budget, and we never find it. The hole deepens from budgetary control to budgetary control. There is a total lack of budgetary rigour. On the other hand, we find what you call growth measures, and that I call gift measures to capital. It has been said that wages are falling, consumption and employment rates are falling, but reductions in social contributions and other gifts are very important. They are at the heart of the problem of the tax shift and the financing of it; you do not mention this problem, whereas for me, that is the key to the solution. These are the leads you are going to take, but I note that the Minister of Finance has already mentioned the taboos of the N-VA. If we don't touch the trajectory, or the recipes, what are we going to touch? Social security and public expenditure. That's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u32	Mr President, I do not know whether you have been reassured by the answers you have heard. I have a feeling that is confirmed from exercise to exercise, that of unbearable lightness. There is a lot of lightness in the explanations that have been given to us. Objectively, we have not learned much about what has already been circulated in the press. What you explained to us on the report of the Monitoring Committee had already been widely discussed in the press. Few new elements are to be noted. We feel that you're sailing on sight and that you're more comfortable explaining what happened than convincing us that you have a grip on what's going to happen. It's kind of like a weather Miss who's stronger to describe the weather he did the day before than he's gonna do the next day. The explanations given are all the less convincing because, for a number of them, they are merely a reminder of the warnings you have been given. Mr Minister of Finance, when you explain to us that on the liquidation bonuses, there were anticipation effects, that's exactly what the Court of Auditors had said when it analysed your budget forecasts, demonstrating that some effects would not be recurring. When you tell us that there is a volume effect related to the increase in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, that is exactly what we told you during the budget work. You're giving us a posteriori reason. This is not very satisfactory because it would rather be before making the decisions that you took into account the warnings rather than admitting after the fact that there were indeed many approximations. At the beginning of the financial year, at the time of the vote on the 2016 budget, I remember that Mr. Van Mechelen had admitted that there was a need for a highly monitored monitoring of revenue and expenditure. We have the impression that we have let things go and that we are now very devoid of it, while there are three months left before the end of the budget year and that we do not know how we are going to get rid of the gap. On this issue of re-establishing the trajectory 2016, the point is particularly evanescent. Yes, there are three levers: expenditure, revenue, trajectory. But what is your proposal? What's your line? What is your argument? What is your strength of persuasion within the government? We feel a great lightness. Madam Budget Minister, you have told us that there must be a balance between fiscal consolidation and economic recovery. The problem is that, for the moment, we have neither. So there's really something to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u33	Mr President, in his question Mr Dispa was still positive when he thanked the excellence for their presence. It hasn't gotten much clearer after their answers. I am afraid that their presence also had to do with the demining of Thursday's Question Time, to clarify it more than today. I have heard Minister Wilmès say that he is working in three areas: revenue, expenditure and the change of route. There are, of course, many other possibilities if we want to have a budget in order. She might as well have made it clear by saying that we are already a tax champion in the area of income, so there will be no extra taxes under this government. She could also have said that we are in a position to ensure a budget balance in 2018 with our government agreement; we will not change that path. It could have clearly chosen to clean up expenditure, but it clearly did not. Of course, there's always a trickbox. We have seen this in the Flemish Government. A number of things can be kept out of the budget, such as Oosterweel and so on. I'll put that under the heading "Transcript modification" of the route "Transcript." Madam Minister, your answers have certainly not been very clear. May I add one more point, Mr President? Just now, Mr Dedecker was trying to gain the credibility of the opposition. I would have found it a little more credible if he had acknowledged in his speech that not only external factors are involved. That is a discussion that we have heard a lot today: that the consequences of the Brexit are difficult to predict, and that is difficult to predict. That's right, it's hard to predict. The fact that mistakes are made is not abnormal at all. However, if this is done systematically, and if figures always have to be adjusted in the same direction, then there is a problem. If we have to find billions of euros in the budget in a few months' time, there is only one logical explanation. Then systematic errors of assessment have been made. The Minister of Finance blames the poor models on the administration. However, you cannot ignore the fact that, in the many measures it has introduced, this government has only taken into account the positive effects, but not the setbacks that these measures may bring. The proceeds of these measures have been systematically overestimated. It is a concern that Mr Vanvelthoven has just rightly expressed. Believe him, he's an experienced expert. It was not better with the previous governments in this respect. He knows all about it, too. If you do not recognise that there is also a fundamental problem, then there will be no proper solutions. The debate is far from over. We will see what we will see, what measures the citizens will get on their sandwiches to fill this crater.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u34	Mr. Chairman, I have heard very little questioning from the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Finance. To paraphrase the Prime Minister speaking on another subject, the limits of denial were reached in this case. The beginning of a durable and robust solution would be a bit of foresight, transparency and consideration. I've heard a lot of excuses! It is the fault of Brexit, of the tax administration that estimates revenues poorly, it takes a little time, it is the fault of refugees and terrorists, it is the fault of Europe, of the opposition, I have even heard in the mouth of a colleague of the MR. I repeat that the elements on the table today confirm the criticisms that we have made, on the one hand, based on our analysis and on the analysis of the institutions at the service of this Parliament. I do not know what it will take for the majority of us to admit at some point that we are wrong on the budget. I have a request to make, Mr. President. On the one hand, I want us to get the document from the monitoring committee. You have it, so it'll be easy, we can make a copy right away. This is a first element: we must have all the tools to do our job. On the other hand, I would like to return to a discussion that we had at the time of the budget. We were questioning a series of revenues, measures that the government was considering in order to achieve budgetary objectives. I hope that, in the context of the budgetary debate and in conjunction with the outcome of the conclave that will be held, we will obtain precise figures on the objectives already achieved: the revenue from excise duties, the Cayman tax, the liquidation bonus, the state of play in relation to the objectives of the redesignation of the administration... This is in order not to discuss on the basis of intentions but on an account, as is done in other private or public entities, to measure the state of play of the achievement of what had been announced at the level of the initial budget. I think that this is something we can rely on to demonstrate that there is a way to do something else. Beyond the criticism of what will emerge from the conclave, we were hoping to better understand where the government wanted to go. With regard to the 2018-2019 fiscal trajectory, I hear divergent views within the government between hard-line supporters and supporters of some relaxation. To us, dying cured has never been a solution, Mr. President. Public finances must be managed seriously, but it is not an option to seek at all costs and speedily a fiscal balance at the cost of dewatering our economy and increasing the number of people in situations of social and economic distress, without giving themselves the means to respond to environmental challenges. Nor did I hear the Minister of Finance speak about the organization of his administration to combat tax evasion and recover tax. This is a very negative aspect of its record at this stage. I heard Mr. Van de Velde referred to the difficulty experienced by some tax administrations at the local level in collecting tax, owing to the lack of legal and human resources. I hope that you will have heard this comment from one of your colleagues in the N-VA, Mr Van Overtveldt, when I ask you about the billions that are not recovered by the tax authorities because of a lack of resources. Of course, I get numbers, but I don't get any reaction. Secondly, I did not hear a clear commitment from Mrs Wilmès and Mr. Van Overtveldt – but I am not surprised by the latter, given the quotations I mentioned – not to make savings at the expense of the most fragile among us. I have cited measures in terms of social security that have been decided: the exclusion of young people from access to integration benefits, the abolition of the supplement to unemployment benefits for part-time workers – especially certain women – and the abolition of similar periods. If you do not go back to certain unbearable measures, can you assure us that there will no longer be any such measures in the field of horrors? This fundamental concern remains. Finally, what is your ambition in terms of the margins to start a socio-economic project based on another mobility and investments in research and development, as I thought I heard in the Prime Minister's mouth? Again, the answer is: zero ambition, at this stage, among the Ministers of Budget and Finance! This may change after a conclave, but that's what I'm waiting for. To demand such efforts from our fellow citizens, who must suffer new taxes, who must suffer dark cuts in essential policies of solidarity, to achieve such a result, to such a budget hole at this stage, is simply unbearable. I hope that this meeting of the Finance Committee, before the conclave – we have 20 days left before 15 October – will make it possible to reorient the government's choices. I have doubts, of course, based on what I have already seen, but I hope at least that we will be heard about one or the other of these elements or, if possible, on all of them: loosening the trajectory, doing the job, Mr. Minister of Finance, in terms of tax revenues; stopping the massacre in the field of social security; and freeing up margins for a revival, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u35	Mr President, this is the eleventh budget discussion I have seen in the Chamber. I always see left and right (...) on the same subjects. I always hear the same demagogy and reproaches, which go over and over, but what I have experienced today is a government that takes responsibility, which communicates very clearly about its figures and is willing to adjust. I won't respond to everything, but I'd still like to give you a few things. I am pleased that the government recognises that it is important to adjust the parameters for the predictions. It is pointless to continue chasing tax figures based on wrong parameters. This is the reason for this situation every time. I hope that there will be a consensus in the government that this is not a buffer, but a correction. Mr Laaouej, you are already starting to motivate it to be a buffer. I propose that this correction be maintained as long as there is no clarity. I'm sure you know what I mean. Mr Laaouej, you have succeeded in throwing the Leaks on the board of this government: it is still raining tax fraud. May I remind you that this occurred at a time when you were in power almost since time immemorial? You've continued to allow this. You have not dealt with this and today we are destroying it. Do you want to be a little honest and serious in that? I think it's ridiculous that you're even laughing at it. I think that's sad. What I do not think has been sufficiently addressed in this debate is the international respect given to this government for the structural reforms it is undertaking in the areas of pensions, the reduction of labour costs, the maintenance of the energy system. Last but not least, this is a government that wants to invest again instead of consuming. It has international respect for this, and that can be given here. That indeed creates a continuous balancing exercise. The reforms, of course, create tensions. It is, of course, really difficult to predict the exact impact of the money. But let me be clear, Mr Laaouej, on our side too, we will be very careful not to affect internal consumption, but also our competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. There's one criticism I didn't hear that I would go with. Perhaps we have been too soft on the budget. Perhaps we will have to take tougher budgetary measures to correct this. Let me give you one thing. I find it unbelievable that the opposition is constantly making a fuss about it. The most important and easiest way to restore budgetary space, Mr Laaouej, is an economic revival. The economic support that our society supports in every way will provide budgetary space. Let us not forget, Mr Laaouej, that your party has ruled in periods when, so to speak, there was abundant growth and abundant space, but that those efforts did not take place at that time. We will have to make these efforts to ensure that budgetary space is created, that fiscal space is created, to stimulate our economy. Minister, we must dare to question counterproductive taxes. That is the case with some of the taxes that have been decided today, and I shall do so. I reiterate my party's desire to include corporate tax reform in the 2017 budgetary exercise as an important parameter for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u36	I would like to say something before giving the floor to Mr Crusnière. I read today in the press that the Netherlands has a surplus of 0,5% in the budget. A number of years ago they also had a deficit of 2 to 3 % and now they have a surplus of 0.5 %. It is therefore possible to achieve such a result in a modern welfare state. I would like to appeal to all governments. Mr Laaouej, in 2010, the budget deficit was 4% of gross domestic product. Now we're flirting with the 3 %. In six years we have managed to reduce that deficit by 1.2 %, half of which is due to the fall in interest rates. Over the past six years, we have structurally reduced deficits by 0.1%, across governments, and my party has always been part of those governments. It's our government's mission to create a fault line. It would not be a good thing if we had a budget which would be said in no time that there is no structural improvement in the balances. They weren't there in 2016 and barely in 2015. It is a major task for the government to propose a credible budget in the next few weeks. I do not compare crediblely with a balance in 2018 and 2019. No, it must be a credible budget that guarantees us a reduction in the structural deficit for 2016 and certainly for 2017. One has to go to the maximum to remain credible. Mr Laaouej, a slight improvement was noted in the previous legislature, but it was not spectacular either. One started at 4 % and ended at 3.2 or 3.3 %. So I urge that this is also a question from Parliament, and that this time the budget will be a trend break. We must feel that we are evolving in the right direction. The Dutch example shows that reorganisations that include both taxes and expenditure restrictions do not necessarily prevent growth. Growth is higher there than we have; unemployment has fallen more than we have in recent years. In short, success is possible when one works in that triangle. This assumes, however, that it will not be a peace metal work, with a number of taxes, genre capital taxes, of which Mr Van de Velde is already saying that we are better revised because they are counterproductive, or spending cuts in genre redesign together. On the other hand, I call for some seriousness. The intention is, of course, there, and the fact is that the budget is going to be a baptism of fire. By the way, I have had experience in the drafting of budgets longer than you all have. In the 1980s I had already been sitting in Parliament at that time, a real structural breach could be achieved. There was a deficit of 15% and they went to 7% in a few years without the economy being cashed. Let us look at everything in perspective and achieve a balanced budget in the long term. I am not expressing my opinion on the date. We cannot continue as we are today, with only 0.1 percent of the deficit being reduced in six years' time, in a period of barely interest payments. I am talking about all possible governments here. If we continue along that road, we will face huge problems in the event of rising interest rates and ageing costs. My group supports the government, but it also calls on it to achieve a trend break in the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u37	Mr President, to supplement briefly my colleague's speech, I wanted to reply to Mr Piedboeuf on the Walloon region's deficit. He spoke of a deficit of 300 million, but I would point out that if we are at the level of the Walloon Region, it is also, unfortunately, because of the decisions taken by the federal government. I am, of course, thinking about the tax shift, the DLU, all the problems of hospital infrastructure. For these three items alone, a revenue reduction of EUR 114 million can be expected. If a deficit is presented, unlike the federal one, it is not because of a DIY or a bad estimate, but actually to cover strategic investments, of which I have the list here, up to EUR 300 million. I will of course be happy to communicate it to my colleague Piedboeuf. A word about Brexit too. In this regard, there is a slight discrepancy between the two ministers. Mr Van Overtveldt, you say that it would not be so dramatic as it is said, the IMF risks coming out of figures that could be more positive. We will indeed be paying attention to these figures which will come out, I think, in the course of next week. On the other hand, Mrs Wilmès, you say that it plays a role in growth. What is paradoxical is that the growth of the euro area does not decline as much as at the Belgian level. This is proof that it is the Michel government's policy that does not work. I will not repeat what my colleague has said. Nor did we have an answer with regard to the financing of the tax shift. We will come back soon as part of the discussion on the 2017 budget. I'm worried about both of you because I already feel you're tired enough despite the return from vacation. And I know you're going to spend nights, days and weeks hard to find billions. We already have a solution. We have a very good text: a text on wealth tax which is tabled and which, according to the Court of Auditors, could bring in 2 to 2.3 billion euros. This would already largely solve your problem and avoid a few nights of sleep. This text is here, it is tabled. Mr President, we can put it on the agenda and vote on it, in order to avoid our two friends having difficult nights. That's a suggestion I'm making to help you find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u38	Thank you, Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic495x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have spoken. I think we have had a good debate, and we are now seeing more clearly in the figures. It is now up to the government to work out solutions according to the priorities.
