ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u1	In early June 2016, Sharky, a transgender, was stabbed in Etterbeek. He was stabbed several times with a knife in the abdomen and had to be hospitalized. The reason for this is only that he is a transgender. A dozen days later, Frédéric was attacked near Saint Catherine's Square, because he is gay. He walked near the square hand in hand with his friend, when he got homophobic comments thrown to the head. After he asked the man who did, for an explanation, he was knocked unconscious. Unfortunately, these are neither new nor typical Brussels stories. Even though Belgium is a pioneer in the field of LGBT rights, Holebi and transphobic violence remains a serious problem here. The sad highlight we are experiencing in 2012 with the murder of the young Liègen Ihsane Jarfi. The perpetrators were found guilty of homophobia as an aggravating circumstance. At the same time, the various governments in our country drew up a national action plan against Holebi and Transphobia in order to be able to act in a coordinated and more efficient way. However, that action plan ended at the end of 2014. The new federal government promised to work with the Regions and Communities on a necessary new plan. As Secretary of State, you instructed the Flemish LGBT dome association Çavaria to find out what can or must be done in the legal field. That assignment ended at the end of 2015. I may be mistaken, but as far as I know, no further steps were taken. In September, two years after the start of the federal government, there would be an inter-kabinets working group, but unfortunately there is not yet a new action plan. Can you tell me why there's so little progress in the file? Or has there been more progress than I suspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u2	Thank you for your question and for your interest in the progress of the file. A coordinated approach against trans- and homophobia remains of great importance. Since my arrival, I have taken the dossier to heart. My cabinet and I examined the state of implementation of two previous national action plans and, together with Çavaria, we worked out the first texts. The priorities set out by civil society and the Cabinets were sought and taken into account. Last summer, even at my request, civil society was brought together as part of the plan. Through this dialogue, the texts were strengthened and supplemented. I also kept to the implementation of the coalition agreement with the establishment of the Equal Opportunities cell in the federal administration. It has reworked the texts that are now being tested internally before a first IKW is organized. I share your opinion on the importance of such a national action plan and on a coordinated approach to cross-cutting competence as equal opportunities in general. That is why we have also focused on the action plan on gender-based violence. Another example is the coordinated approach with Flanders regarding the Intersex study. Here I commissioned the investigation of the federal aspects of prevalence and care discourse, while Minister Homans funded Land aspects such as well-being. I would like to explain the main lines of the current version of the national action plan against homophobic and transphobic violence and discrimination. In the current design we will distinguish four themes: increasing knowledge, improving legislation, optimising policy and education and sensitisation. A first theme is to increase knowledge of LGBT individuals. In concrete terms, a study will be carried out on the most underexposed target groups such as intersex and transgender individuals. A second theme will be to improve legislation. Indeed, there are several areas where the regulatory framework can be made even more effective. For example, an amendment of the transgender law will be planned shortly. It also examines whether transphobia can be included as an aggravating circumstance in hate crimes. The third theme concerns initiatives at policy level, both international, European, national and sub-state. One of the key points of policy improvement is the optimisation of prevention, e.g. suicide prevention and care for LGBT individuals. Several actions are also planned to improve administrative services and enforcement of cases of discrimination against LGBT individuals. A final theme provides for the formation and awareness raising of different groups, such as the general public through the media, medical staff, employers, education and youth sectors. I therefore hope that the summary will give us an idea of our involvement in the action plan. Nevertheless, everything is still linked to the approval of the various relevant ministers, to be obtained through the inter-Kabinette working groups, which will be organised in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I think your answer is very positive and I understand that this has been delayed. It is not the first time that something like this has been delayed. I certainly don't blame you for that, for the record. They're interesting slopes and I look forward to it. Do you already have a concrete idea when the texts will be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u4	We're working on those texts. When that has happened, we will indeed organize the Those IKWJs are planned in spring. The speed with which the plan comes about is determined by how fast it is to get one and more together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u5	I would like to give you our full support and hope that your fellow Members, who are competent in the various areas, will support this. Such transversal policy is very important and we certainly want to strengthen our argument by working on it and dealing with the texts in a good way, without you temporizing or accelerating. I am sure that is also your wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u6	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question dates back a long time ago and has already moved. Maybe I could just sketch the history for you. It is about the case where there is discussion, quarrel or disagreement about the family name for the newborn child. If a couple doesn't agree with that, I think there's something going on. By the previous government it was decided that in case of disagreement it would become the name of the father. At that time, we testified and predicted that this would not make any legal sense in the area of discrimination. That has now been confirmed. The Constitutional Court has said that this is not possible. The current government had to make a new arrangement. At that time, there was also an opinion from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, which recommends that, in the event of disagreement between parents or absence of choice, the dual family name be automatically assigned. The big question then is, of course, in what order. The Institute recommends that, in the event of disagreement, the order of the names be set in a neutral manner and that the tirage au sort or the lott be drawn forward. We have recently tabled a legislative proposal, which was considered by the plenary on 10 November, in which we also put forward the piste of the lottery. I cannot come up with a better Dutch name, and I find the French expression tirage au sort a little more beautiful. I understand now that the government itself is putting forward that it will become the alphabetical order. That could be seen as a neutral way. Although it is a bit sensitive to the population in this area, we think that method is just as important. In an alphabetical order one always knows in advance what the outcome will be. If there is unwillingness in the game, this can cause people to argue anyway. Suppose I come first and I want to come first and we don't get out, then they fight about it. I am now proposing it very simplistically, and I hope that it does not happen very much, because people should be able to agree on something like that. Such a situation does not occur at all, so that system seemed to us to be the most just choice that would cause the least problems. I wonder why you did not follow the advice of the Institute and the other one did. We'll keep pushing that track forward. Furthermore, the Institute recommends the introduction of a transitional provision allowing women who have been disadvantaged by the right of veto to pass their names on to their children. I understand that there would be an arrangement for that, too? My question is whether you intend to follow the recommendations. Apparently, that's not exactly what you're planning. I would like to get some explanation as to why the alphabetical order was chosen, and not to draw a lot. I would also like to receive your reply to the other questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, pursuant to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities 2/2016 of the Constitutional Court, together with Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, I made a comparative legal analysis of this judgment. A preliminary draft law amending Articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code on the method of handing over names to the child was then prepared. This preliminary draft was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 October. During the preparation of the preliminary draft, the Institute's recommendations were also analysed. I must tell you, however, that these recommendations have come into the process quite late. We were already in full consultation at the time. I'll be honest with you about that. The judgment was dropped at the beginning of 2016, very early, and the opinion came only during the summer. At the time, we were already in full agreement within the government and had already adopted a position at that time. You know this is a sensitive subject. We were already far into our negotiation process at the time, and we had chosen the alphabetical order, as I will explain to you further. The preferred arrangement that the child gets the name of the father in case of disagreement or absence is abolished; this was requested by the Constitutional Court. Parents are invited to choose the name to be granted to the child when the paternal and maternal lineage are established at the same time. I won't read it all. What has been changed is that on which the Constitutional Court has delivered rulings. Of course, we have not changed the rest. The law only dates from 2014. There was a lot of discussion on this at the time, and it made public opinion miserable. We have therefore focused on the points on which the Constitutional Court had ruled. If there is disagreement, we go for the double name, the question of non-discrimination. So that arrangement stays. What about the double name? Several bodies have chosen the alphabetical order because our society is very much based on the alphabet. Later, the advice came to do heads or tails or draw lots. After consultation within the government and with other groups, we have no longer opted for this because the reflection process and consultation with the various government partners were advanced. Also in view of the feedback we received from people on the street, we have chosen not to change that anymore because otherwise we would fall behind again and this would delay the thinking process anyway. In addition, the right of name should enter into force before 1 January 2017. Whatever choice one makes, it's still a bit arbitrary. One can even find discrimination in the name itself. In the case of composite names such as Van den Berghe, we have a number of names, whereas in the Netherlands, this is "Berghé' and "Berghé' and "Van den Berghe' is an insert. In this case one could say that one goes for the B and not for the V. In short, there are several factors involved in this. Of course, it is also bad if a choice of names should provoke so much discussion. However, figures show that the number of problem situations is relatively small and is limited to a few dozen. We have no longer followed the opinion on this point because we were already far in the consultation process. Otherwise, everything had to be reduced. I understand your position on the system of drawing lots, but the opinion has come very late and we have a time frame. The draft law is with the Council of State and three dates have already been planned with Parliament. The draft law will be introduced in committee on 6 December and will be discussed on 13 December. I hope that we can get that started so that we can meet the questions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I understand when you say that the consultation process was already under way. It is a pity that the opinion came a little late; we will never know where it would have landed if it had been there earlier, although it might still have caused some discussion. We are, of course, still in favour, and that is the luxury of being in opposition to the tirage au sort. And head or mint is indeed more beautiful than drawing lottery tickets. Indeed, the ruling of the Constitutional Court meant that it had to be quick. You had to move forward. We can still table an amendment, of course. Mutual understanding can also be beautiful in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u9	The rest will be in early December with the texts on the table. It is true that this is the last straight line since there is not much time left until 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u10	Questions Nos 13389, 13391, 13392 and 13398 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions. Mr Kir asked for the postponement of his question No 13933.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u11	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am asking you about a case which dates back to September 30th and which was echoed in the press at the time. This is a serious and serious incident that took place during a football meeting in Neder-over-Heembeek. Players from the football club Suryoyés Brussels, made up mainly of young people of Aramaic origin, were beaten by players, supporters and staff of the football club Jorez d'Anderlecht. During the game, CF players Jorez first demonstrated aggressiveness and racist and hateful remarks towards FC players Suryoye Brussels. In particular, an official of the FC Jorez club made the following remarks to the president of the FC Suryoye Club – I quote –: "Armenian dirty bands. I am Turkish, you will be killed as in 1923", clearly referring to the genocide that took place between 1915 and 1923. Then the situation got worse. On many occasions, CF officials at Suyoyés asked the referee to put an end to the game, given the excruciating and totally unbearable atmosphere that reigned, but in vain. As he was trying to calm the situation, FC President Suryoyés, Benhur Ergen, received blows on his head before being beaten by about ten people from the other club. The police only intervened 45 minutes after being called. Madam Secretary of State, these are my questions. Are you aware of this incident? These statements and violent acts against an Aramaic football team, referring to the fact that the genocide of the Aramaeans and Armenians has not been completely completed, are obviously totally unbearable and unacceptable in the context of a sporting meeting in Brussels. What do you intend to do to avoid and punish such behaviour so that it does not happen again? You have announced the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws, which leads me to ask you for your response to this unacceptable incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u12	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, I have also taken note of the events described in your question. This is indeed a very serious incident. Racist messages were expressed and there were deliberate assaults with racism as a motive. I deeply regret these events, which, as you have said, are unacceptable. From a legal point of view, such conduct may be punished under article 398 of the Criminal Code. The legislator recognizes the particularly serious reason for racist motivation and doubles the penalty to article 405quater of the Criminal Code. More specifically, it provides for a maximum penalty of 5 years and a maximum fine of 500 euros plus the relevant additional decimes. A similar increase in the level of sanctions is applied to racist and hateful slander. As far as management policies are concerned, sport is a Community competence. In the past, my colleagues from the federated entities have already taken several initiatives to reduce racism in sport. It should be stressed, for example, the project to combat racism in sport of the French Community Commission in Brussels-Capital. It provides additional resources and support for sports projects focusing on supporting the most vulnerable groups, promoting cohabitation, combating racism and promoting fair play. Equal opportunities, including the fight against racism, also remain a cross-cutting competence. As Federal Secretary of State, I will coordinate an inter-federal action plan specifically aimed at combating racism and xenophobia in our society. In this context, I funded a preliminary study conducted by the Human Rights Centre of the University of Ghent. My administration processes the results of this study and translates them into policy recommendations. I will then submit them to my fellow ministers, including those of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the very firm condemnation you have expressed. That should be stressed. This kind of event is unacceptable. The complainants filed a complaint and this case is being followed by the courts. I am counting on you to be very proactive about these issues. In the current times, it is extremely important that there be a strong signal from the authorities. You are right to say that it is a cross-jurisdictional competence. I also thank you for the initiatives you are taking with your colleagues from the federated entities to ensure that there is a consolidated overall plan on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am not the first to question you about gender mainstreaming in the debate on pensions and, more specifically, on the recognition of heavy trades. Indeed, several organisations fighting for gender equality have sent you a letter in order to demand a more balanced approach to the tenability of work that would take into account the situation of people, including women. The approach follows one observation: the definition of heavy trades as considered in the legislation applies mainly to physical and masculine occupations. Sectors with over-representation of women (cleaning workers, cashiers, personal care occupations) are too little taken into account. However, according to a study by the KU Leuven, it appears that women are overrepresented in work with limited career prospects (60%), emotionally demanding work (60%) and indecent work (55%), which are included as qualitative criteria that should be included in the debates on penitibility. In opinion No. 149 of 13 November 2015 of the Office of the Equal Opportunities Council, the recognition of heavy trades and occupational diseases is considered discriminatory against women. Madam Secretary of State, are you going to ensure that the gender dimension is fully and properly taken into account in the debates on the tenability of work and the recognition of heavy occupations? Will you work with the relevant ministers to objectify the criteria for recognition of gender-based penitibility? Can you assure me that Opinion 149 of the Council for Equal Opportunities between Men and Women will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u15	Ms. Chair, Ms. Ben Hamou, as you know, gender mainstreaming is a cross-cutting approach that involves ensuring that each member of the government ensures that the gender dimension is integrated into the policy that it pursues within the framework of its own competencies. It is with this in mind that, from the beginning of this Parliament, I have ensured that a federal gender mainstreaming plan is drawn up and that all members of the government make commitments regarding gender mainstreaming in their policies. Following a screening of all the policy presentations, fact sheets were sent by my administration to each of my colleagues for each of their skills to draw their attention to policies that had a significant gender dimension. In this context, the Minister of Pensions is committed to ensuring that the gender dimension is integrated into the modernisation of the family dimension of the pension system: sharing of rights, derived rights, legal cohabitation. The Minister of Pensions also drew the attention of the National Pension Committee and the Academic Council to the need to assess the impact of pension projects and measures on the respective situation of women and men. The claim that pension reform would disadvantage women is clearly wrong. Indeed, the analyses of the Study Committee on Ageing and the Federal Bureau of the Plan indicate that the pension reforms that have already been decided do, on the contrary, reduce the gender difference in the labour market. This is the case both for the change in age conditions and careers for early retirement, for the increase in the legal age of the pension and for the reform of the diploma bonus. This is also the case, therefore, for the new measure aimed at recording also the full extent of career breaks with social justification — for example pregnancy, parental leave, etc. — which are mainly women's contributions to the pension, and on the other hand, periods of pre-pension and long-term unemployment only at a minimum rate. Pre-pensions and unemployment account for 17 per cent of men's theoretical careers, compared with 12 per cent of women's. The aim of the new pension reform is to restore the link between work benefits and acquired rights. This is why the beginning of non-voluntary unemployment will continue to be treated as working days as the wage before the period of non-activity. This is a question of protection against job loss, and of social protection for old days. On the other hand, it is difficult to justify periods of inactivity such as long-term unemployment and pre-pension being also considered as periods of continued employment and social security contributions or even social benefits. A social security system in which the notion of the link between years worked and acquired rights is lost is bound to weaken. In the long run, there is a risk of destroying the financial and social basis through which it must be possible to show solidarity with people who, because of circumstances beyond their control, are unable to work. To strengthen the implementation of gender mainstreaming at the federal level, the Institute for Gender Equality is currently organizing, at my request, a series of training courses to explain to strategic cells and federal administrations how the gender dimension can be integrated into government decision-making. These trainings should contribute to improving the quality of gender impact assessments as part of the Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA). Secondly, I am working with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, on the reform of the regulatory impact assessment, particularly with regard to gender control with a view to obtaining a more effective instrument. Improving pension equality is also possible, and above all by introducing more equality during the career. I am convinced that this problem requires a cross-cutting approach. So I decided to launch – and this is a first in Belgium – a federal gender and work action plan. The aim of this plan is to present a series of concrete measures organised around five axes: the fight against gender discrimination in the labour market, the improvement of the combination of private and professional life, the fight against the wage gap, the promotion of balanced representation in economic decision-making bodies and the fight against gender stereotypes. We have recently completed the series of consultations of field actors in collaboration with the Institute for Gender Equality. I am currently working on a preliminary project. Secondly, we will discuss possible actions with my fellow ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. As regards the third question concerning Opinion No 149 of the Equal Opportunities Council, can you confirm that this will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u17	We are working on the Gender and Work Plan, taking into account all recommendations. We will see if we can include them all in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u18	Question No 14598 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u19	The situation of women in the labour market in Belgium remains quite unequal. This inequality of treatment is reflected not only in terms of wages but also in the responsibilities entrusted to women within the enterprise. Last year, my colleagues in the MR Group and I tabled a motion calling on the government to put in place measures to drastically reduce these inequalities. It came back to me that a National Plan on Equality in the Labour Market was being drawn up. May I know, what are your steps in this work beyond the work-like plan you have just mentioned? What would be the scope of the measures put in place within this framework and what are the objectives pursued by this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u20	Last June, I asked you about the latest figures from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which once again revealed that women were the main victims of inequality and discrimination, mainly in the workplace. You mentioned in your reply that you were planning to implement a plan to strengthen gender equality in employment. A plan aimed at proposing a series of concrete measures to promote gender equality and to combat gender discrimination in the labour market. It is true that you gave a number of information in response to Mrs Ben Hamou's question, but you did not indicate where you are five months later in the implementation of this plan. Have there been any consultations with your colleague, the Minister of Employment, since it is an important lever to be able to implement measures within this framework? Can you tell us when these concrete measures should come into being? Have you planned a timing? How long do you think you can get this plan out? Perhaps you could tell us a little more about these five axes? Do you already have some more concrete elements to share with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u21	Madam, thank you for your question. Convinced that the problem of gender inequalities in the professional sphere requires a cross-cutting approach, as I said earlier, we decided to launch for the first time in Belgium a Federal Action Plan "gender and employment". The aim of this plan will be to propose a series of concrete measures which will be based on five axes, which I have mentioned: the fight against gender discrimination in the labour market, the improvement of the reconciliation of private and professional life, the fight against the wage gap, the promotion of balanced representation in economic decision-making and the deconstruction of gender stereotypes in the labour market. The plan was widely consulted by civil society, which began this summer and ended this month. My firm is currently analysing the various measures proposed. Many stakeholders were consulted, including feminist associations, social partners, experts from academia, the Equal Opportunities Council, etc. It was really a big consultation group. Once this analytical work is completed, we will propose a plan to the government. I can add that the civil society consultation is closed this month. Secondly, this draft action plan will be the subject of various consultations with my colleagues in the federal government, including the Minister of Employment. The objective of the plan is, on the one hand, to bring together measures in existing laws and to make them more effective, for example, by establishing a monitoring mechanism and, on the other hand, to present new measures that will be implemented in the short, medium or long term. The plan should be drawn up in close consultation with representatives of civil society and relevant ministers. The Action Plan is expected to be finalized in 2017. A broad round of consultations was undertaken with all relevant groups. The study is under way. Then the subject will be discussed together and followed by a proposal to the government to finalize this plan. It is the work that awaits us for the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u22	I thank the Secretary of State for this good news. I see a good step forward on your part in this plan and, moreover, that consultation has taken on a relatively important dimension, which will enable us to object to the measures you have proposed. I am pleased to know that next year you will present it to Parliament so that Parliament can vote on the proposed measures to make them applicable. In order for them to be effective in terms of decision-making, there must be sanctions – and I have heard it from you – if the measures are not to be respected, which is of paramount importance, otherwise all this will remain on the basis of pious wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u23	Madam President, I will not repeat what has been said here, but I agree with Mrs de Coster. When it's good, you have to say it. I find it very much in your honour to have taken up the subject of discrimination in the workplace with arms and to see that you have worked for five months and that, moreover, in a concerted manner, is of great interest to us! I remain a little hungry, because I would have liked to have received more concrete elements. But we will wait until early 2017. Indeed, we should not wait too long, because this is a crucial element. In particular, Minister Borsus has taken measures to support women who wish to start as self-employed. It is also an important element that must be kept in mind. And, in my view, these measures can still be improved. In any event, I will allow myself to come back to the subject in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u24	Question No 14770 by Mrs Winckel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u25	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, at the international conference held in Brussels on 4 October on trafficking in women, their sexual exploitation and prostitution, Claude Moniquet, CEO of the European Strategic Intelligence and Security Center, discussed the evolution of prostitution and trafficking in women. He was able to explain that this form of exploitation has benefited from the evolution of the Internet in order to develop, in particular through advertisements of a sexual nature where it is possible, he says, "to choose its goods to consume, according to its ethnic and other preferences". You were also present and intervened to talk about Internet prostitution. In this connection, you have indicated that if prostitution was removed from the streets, it did not indicate, of course, that it had disappeared, on the contrary, since this phenomenon contributes, I quote, to "a hypersexualization". Madam Secretary of State, how do you relate the development of online prostitution to that of prostitution and trafficking in human beings in general? Have any studies been carried out in our country on the evolution of prostitution in general as part of the development of the Internet? Are there figures and statistics in this area? What do you think is the link between Internet development and the development of child pornography? Are measures envisaged to combat this phenomenon of online prostitution, in Belgium and at European level? How does Belgium fit into this dynamic?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u26	Mrs Winckel, according to an exploratory survey on prostitution in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, carried out this year by the APES-ULg and HELMo, private prostitution seems to be facilitated by new communication techniques. The same is true for trafficking in human beings. The 2016 Annual Report on Trafficking in Human Beings, prepared by Myria, reports on various cases of sexual exploitation that show the use of the Internet and social networks. Of course, this is a phenomenon that goes beyond Belgium. The European Parliament's report on combating trafficking in human beings in the Union's external relations of 13 June, recalls that, according to Europol, widespread access to the world's Internet allows trafficking to develop in the online environment, which encourages new forms of recruitment and exploitation of victims. In addition, channels of smugglers use the Internet to advertise their services to potential migrants. To my knowledge, there is no study carried out in Belgium specifically on the evaluation of prostitution in the context of the development of the Internet. According to the Scelles Foundation, in France, the Internet has several "benefits". Low access and operating costs allow maximum profitability. Unlike public prostitution, the confidentiality and anonymity guaranteed by the Internet to customers and prostitutes facilitate the use of prostitution. It is easier to avoid police and judicial investigations by escaping behind advertisements posted on the Internet or dating sites. As a result, the Internet facilitates contact with clients and results in lower costs, which benefits human trafficking networks for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Human traffickers are very flexible and move from one country to another, depending on local demand and difficulties. Constantly, websites appear, while others disappear, making the analysis of the phenomenon very difficult. On the other hand, there are data on the number of complaints filed with the police concerning advertising for sexual services. According to police crime statistics, there were 139 complaints in 2010, 81 complaints in 2011, 84 complaints in 2012, 75 complaints in 2013, 68 complaints in 2014 and 56 complaints in 2015. More detailed information on police data is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. Information on the number of cases brought before the courts falls under the authority of the Minister of Justice. Here too, the same principle applies. Unfortunately, since the emergence of the Internet, there has been an explosion of child pornography. Indeed, it is now possible to consult content on the Internet in complete anonymity. Hence an increase in child pornography demand. As was said earlier, the Internet crosses national borders. It is therefore easy to abuse poor children who, for example, live on the street somewhere across the globe, where there is less social control. This situation and the continuous arrival of new sites make it more difficult to combat the phenomenon. If, in itself, prostitution is not prohibited in Belgium – no special measures exist to combat this practice – trafficking in human beings and child pornography, on the other hand, are indeed prohibited. My colleagues from the Interior and Justice are taking a great deal of action to combat this criminal activity, while taking into account the evolution of the Internet. For example, in addition to its Trafficking in Human Beings unit, the Federal Police has another cybercrime unit and is working closely with Child Focus to combat child pornography. Then, last year, we adopted a new national plan of action to combat human trafficking and illicit trafficking. In this context, a great many initiatives have been taken. For a more detailed explanation, I refer you to my colleagues in the Justice and the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u28	It's a very difficult fight to fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u29	Yes, all the more so as more and more women engage in prostitution in addition to their work, due to the increasing precariousness and financial problems. A new movement is part of society. It's something that deserves to be explored. There is a need for more complete factual evidence. Relying only on one territory, namely the French Community, is too small. We should have more comprehensive figures and see what is happening. Several types of people engage in prostitution. There is, on the one hand, trafficking in human beings, but, on the other hand, as I have told you, some are doing in addition, in order to have additional financial resources. The problem is very wide, but I feel like we're only at the beginning. The Internet has existed for a few years, but we are only at the beginning of the reflection on this topic. There should be no delay in finding solutions, facilities or accompaniment to this phenomenon. I will allow myself to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u30	Madam President, Secretary of State, the World Economic Forum has just published its ranking of gender equality. This ranking is based on the gender gap in economic participation, political influence, health and education. It is clear from this ranking that Belgium is losing 5 places compared to last year, now in 24th place out of 144 countries studied, while it was in 19th place last year. In addition, neighbouring countries that are quite similar to ours, such as France or the Netherlands, all rank in the top 20! Although Belgium stands out in terms of women's education, much progress is still needed in many areas. Our country must improve not only in terms of health care for women, but also in terms of their life expectancy. Finally, the greatest disparities between men and women are noted in terms of political influence, economic participation and equal pay. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain that Belgium is falling back in this ranking? Are equal policies and gender mainstreaming, in your opinion, inadequate or poorly implemented? How can we explain that in 2016 women are still under-represented or under-represented in influential positions, particularly in politics and economic circles? Are you considering taking further steps to remedy this and in particular to reduce this famous wage gap between men and women?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u31	Madam President, Mrs Ben Hamou, the ranking established by the World Economic Forum referred to in your question indicates that Belgium is falling back on equality between women and men. This ranking is of interest, but it also has its limitations, given the indicators on which it is based and the number of countries it takes into account. On the basis of other indicators and by limiting comparison to the Member States of the European Union, Belgium has, for example, obtained the fifth place on the gender equality index drawn up by the European Gender Institute. With regard to this health report, Belgium is ranked 64th in a ranking of 144 countries, based on two indicators: the ratio of boys to girls at birth and the healthy life expectancy of women and men. While there is no gender imbalance due to abortions in Belgium, it is true that despite a higher life expectancy for women (83.16 years) than for men (77.55 years), life expectancy in good health is more or less the same for women and men (approximately 63 years). Progress can therefore be made to increase the healthy life expectancy of both women and men. As far as education is concerned, Belgium obtains a maximum score on the basis of the indicators used (literacy rates, the presence of different levels of education). Important initiatives have already been taken by the relevant federal entities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the choice of study then affects the distribution of women and men in the various occupational sectors. With regard to the balanced presence of women and men in economic decision-making, I refer you to the law of 28 July 2011, which provides for a minimum representation of one third of each sex on certain boards of directors. This law is implemented in phases. Although it is real, it must be pointed out that the wage gap between men and women is one of the lowest in Europe. This is 8% for the hourly wage and 22% on an annual basis, including part-time work, which is largely female. In order to cope with this, the Act on the wage gap of 22 April 2012 and its Royal Decrees provide inter-professionally for the obligation of the social partners to negotiate measures to combat the wage gap, at sectoral level, the monitoring of collective labour agreements in order to make the classifications of functions gender neutral, and at company level, the obligation to submit an analysis report on the remuneration structure, the breakdown of the social balance sheet data, and the possibility of appointing an ombudsman. In addition, aware of the challenges that need to be addressed with regard to equality of women and men in the labour market, I will launch a federal gender and employment action plan. It will be presented to my government colleagues in 2017. As I have already answered this in other questions, I will not repeat the proposed goals or the five axes of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u32	We will talk about these five axes at the end of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u33	Finally, binding and effective measures have also been taken to strengthen the participation of women in political decision-making. Since 1990, legislation has already been enacted to ensure gender balance in the electoral lists and in the various parliaments; you know that. The various parliaments are now moving towards a 40/60 representation of women and men. However, we still see an under-representation of women in the executive branch, but now we come to a 40/60 balance. In addition to the specific policies on gender equality, some of which are mentioned below, gender mainstreaming, which we have already discussed, continues to be stimulated at the federal level in order to ensure that the gender dimension is increasingly taken into account in federal public policies and that gender equality is strengthened in society. The report on the implementation of gender mainstreaming at the federal level will be forwarded to Parliament in early 2017. In 2017, I will organize the additional training on gender mainstreaming, which I have already mentioned, for the staff of law firms and public services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u34	Madam Chair, I thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u35	Ms. Fonck turned her questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u36	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the 2015-2019 national plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence was now presented more than a year ago. Around 235 measures, 6 objectives and 6 themes have been defined. This plan is part of an integral and integrated logic bringing together all the federated entities of the country. Madam Secretary of State, one year after her presentation, can you give us details of the concrete measures and projects that have already been carried out during this year of implementation of the 2015-2019 plan in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels? Can you also tell us where you are in the setting up of multidisciplinary centres, the centres that are dear to us for the reception of sexually abused persons? Given your government's budgetary situation, can a budget be released in this context? I hope I have a long answer. That would mean that you have done a lot of work and put into practice the various objectives set out in the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u37	Ms Winckel, the progress report is scheduled for the end of 2017. It will take stock of the implementation of the 2015-2019 NAP. As foreseen in the plan, this report will be forwarded to Parliament. It is currently premature to draw any assessment of the measures taken since many of them are staggered until 2019. However, some progress can already be noted in a non-exhaustive way. In addition to the projects on violence between partners mentioned in the answer to your other question, I would like to draw attention to sexual violence, which is one of the priorities of the NAP. A feasibility study on the establishment of the multidisciplinary reference centre needs to be finalized shortly. But it is already agreed to prepare for the implementation of three pilot projects in 2017. Five days of study entitled "Code 37" were organized on the issue of sexual violence for the police and judicial sectors. This training was attended by more than 1,000 police officers. A manual on moral offences has been updated and distributed to all local chiefs of corps as well as to the federal police units concerned. An inventory and methodology to launch a prevalence study on sexual violence against men were completed at the end of December 2015. A website on sexual violence aimed at gathering all information for victims and their families was updated and launched in March 2016. The revision of the Ministerial Directive on Sexual Assault Sets, COL 10/2005 of the College of Attorneys General, near the Courts of Appeal is being finalized. The fight against sexual violence and domestic violence has been integrated as a priority in the 2016-2019 national security plan and the 2016-2019 comprehensive security framework note presented last June. It is noted that the priority given to the fight against sexual violence is reflected in various commitments and concrete measures. The collection of statistics on gender-based violence is also among the priority objectives of the NAP. Work has recently been initiated by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Thus, a working group will aim to accompany the work process throughout the 2015 - 2019 NAP. Its aim is to best meet the European and international commitments made by Belgium concerning statistics on gender-based violence and, first and foremost, the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, which is also a positive aspect. The risk assessment instrument for violence between partners was officially presented to the press and stakeholders (interdepartmental police-justice groups of the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Violence, provincial coordination of 13 July 2016). The instrument will also be presented during a morning review of the evaluation of results on violence between partners on 15 December. My colleagues from Justice and the Interior have sent a letter to the police and magistrates informing them of the existence and effectiveness of this instrument. The evaluation of the College of Attorneys General's Circular No. 18/2012 near the Courts of Appeal concerning the temporary prohibition of residence in cases of domestic violence has not yet been completed. The support service of the Public Prosecutor's Office has already prepared a draft evaluation which can serve as a basis for the working groups responsible for the follow-up of this evaluation. The College of Attorneys General near the Courts of Appeal wishes to carry out this activity at the end of 2016 and in the following year. My firm and the Institute also participate in this working group. The Institute prepared a note containing recommendations that took into account a number of complaints from field actors. It has been transmitted and will be used in the evaluation. Another study on a draft Code of Reporting on Partner Violence for Professionals in Trust (Article 458 of the Criminal Code) is currently being conducted. This instrument will consist of standard pragmatic guidelines aimed at structuring the decision-making process to break professional secrecy in the context of partner violence. The elements that will form the content of this future reporting code will be validated and structured in collaboration with all relevant professional federations and administrations. In order to determine these elements, the research team is studying in depth all available Belgian and foreign tools and the relevant literature. Multidisciplinary focus groups are also organized. The aim is to continue work in 2017 on the basis of this draft reporting code and to develop and disseminate an operational instrument with the support of relevant stakeholders. In addition, the provincial coordination grant has been adapted in response to the linear savings to which the administration as a whole is subject. This issue was also addressed in the Board of Directors. Given the importance of these bodies(?) As part of the fight against gender-based violence, I have explicitly asked the Institute to maintain this subsidy, but with a partial economy. For this year, we aligned the grant with the provincial coordination of the other federated entities. All provincial coordinators from all federated entities were informed at a meeting with the Institute. Next year, in cooperation with Ministers Simonis, Tillieux and Prévot, we held a consultation with all provincial coordinators to discuss how best to implement the reform. Given the importance I attach to the implementation of the plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, I would also like to focus on the grant of provincial coordinators' projects on the gender-based approach to violence and the fight against it. This has already been the case for several years in Brussels and Flanders. Therefore, I will continue to support the provincial coordinators. In addition, annual agreements will be concluded, based on the available budget, between the provinces and the Institute to continue supporting projects to combat gender-based violence. Finally, with regard to your question about reception centres, as you know, victims of sexual violence have so far had to go to the various services themselves and re-explain their history. This non-optimal reception could lead to a phenomenon of revictimization. In order for the various bodies concerned to provide assistance to the victim in one place, I intend to centralize all the services. Since last year, the International Center for Reproductive Health has been analysing our needs and how we can translate foreign models. In addition, there have also been visits to these Dutch and British centres, as you know, since you had been there. The systems of judicial police and care are different from those in place in our country. It is therefore impossible to copy in full the organisation of their respective reception centres. This is why it is difficult to determine what is or is not suitable for the Belgian context and what the possible pilot project will look like. Indeed, all this is part of this vast study, but I can already say that it is in the final stage. I personally made an appointment with his authors. We will have to look at the results in order to know how to act practically. I myself participated in the steering group to see what we were going to have to do. Indeed, it is not just an analysis of laws. We must find a solution before the pilotage centre is set up. Our legal system is based on the Napoleonic Code, which is not the case with Anglo-Saxon law. We have therefore had some legal difficulties. I had an appointment with the magistrate. I have been told that if we continue to proceed according to what was foreseen in the study, this could eventually lead to problems with equipment to prove the violence. We need to find a solution, probably through small changes in legislation. There is therefore likely to be some delay in launching the project. The temporal objective is really early January/February but it will probably be in the spring because we have to be sure that if a victim comes into the centre and passes all the exams, it counts afterwards. We held large round tables with all the actors and stakeholders in October. We asked them what they thought of the model. The magistrate said that we could not proceed as in the Netherlands, as in Denmark, as in England. If we act in this way, the lawyer of the person who commits the act will reject the proposal directly. We are looking at how to avoid this situation before starting the pilot project. Of course there are practical mistakes, but we cannot make mistakes against the law. This could cause worries to prove the alias SAS that we already use in Ghent. This is really the crucial issue that was discussed last week. It was really interesting. Many people were present at the Institute. We have dealt with the issue a lot. The magistrates wondered what was permitted or not. I am not a lawyer, but this is also causing problems. In fact, the magistrates carry out numerous examinations and sometimes the lawyer of an accused person finds fault. This kind of situation is difficult. A solution has to be found and we are working on it. In any case, the public has the feeling that things can be arranged. We have the financial means. But the law will have to be changed in order to truly do justice. The police aspect is therefore not at issue here, but justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u38	Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answer. Madam Secretary of State, I did not ask a trap question. I can hear that everything can't be done in a year. But it was necessary to have an overview of the subjects on which you had already worked and advanced. As far as multidisciplinary centres are concerned, it is essential to think about the victim. At the end of the race, the interests of the latter should not be assured. This is a very important aspect. Even if you have to be a little bit late from the timing you set yourself up, it's worth getting things right so that the victim isn't a second victim. If I have heard correctly, you have the budget to launch the pilot project on all three sites. That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u39	The Brussels site is also subject to delays due to the number of municipalities. But it's time to start. It will be important to start with one, two or three centres as soon as possible. Indeed, at that time, things will have begun. We do not know what the parties of a future government will be. This may not be a priority for others. I don't know. But there's something else going on. It's independent of the government. This may reduce interest in each government, but not at all for the parties. I think the audience is ready, too, as well as all the actors. That is why I really hope that these things will be done for the victims, not for me, and that they will have started in Belgium. When things started, it's harder to stop them. After that, it's for me or for someone else who can continue the project. That's the point. But it's not for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u40	To reassure you, all work has been done in parallel with the Social Emancipation Committee here at House level. You've been auditioned a few times and we've been able to discuss this topic several times. A lot of work has been done on rape and sexual violence. I can tell you that, two weeks ago, we came up with a text, a motion for a resolution that was unanimously voted on. It is to tell you that the time has come, that there are no political problems in this area and that everyone is well aware that it is for a good. This is beneficial, especially for the victims. I would just like to add something that I find interesting, in particular, for women or men who are victims of domestic violence. This is the evaluation of this circular on the removal of the violent spouse. It would be good if this evaluation were completed and other tools, such as emergency phones or a computer application, could be explored that could be developed for smartphones. I'm going back to the subject. These are things that are cheap and can be adequate for people whose lives are in danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u41	Questions Nos 14853, 14854 and 14855 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u42	Madam President, this question is complementary to the previous one. In 2014, the Secretary of State, the European Women's Lobby, with the support of the European Commission, published a booklet outlining stereotypes about prostitution. Eighteen myths are deconstructed and are followed by a comparison between Swedish and Dutch legislation on sexual exploitation and prostitution. Other European legislation exists but none is identical to the other. It seems that there are as many laws on the issue as there are countries. In short, it is legislative cacophony within the Union, when it is a global problem, for which we are all concerned and where a common response may be necessary. Do we have a recent study incorporating all the laws of the countries of the European Union relating to the fight against sexual exploitation and prostitution? What conclusions can we draw from the development of prostitution under existing legislation? What is your position on this issue of the standardization of European laws in this matter? In general, can you recall the measures taken within the European Union to combat sexual exploitation, on the one hand, and prostitution, on the other? My questions are specific, you can send me written answers on certain points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u43	You know the PAN. For the first time, this NAP contains measures concerning sexual intimidation in public spaces. One of these measures is to develop an application for victims of sexual intimidation in public spaces. A smartphone app for victims is in the process of being developed. The aim is to address sexual intimidation in public spaces in a concrete way. This will allow victims to quickly and simply identify where they have been subjected to sexual intimidation and will allow police officers to locate problem areas. The idea pursued by this application is also to encourage victims to make a statement to the police. The initial objective was to launch the application at the beginning of the year, but, after in-depth consultation with civil society and at its request, I decided to postpone the launch of the application for a few months, in order to involve it in another large-scale advertising campaign that would provide more explanations about the application and promote it more widely. It is also true that we need to change the application somewhat. Indeed, it has emerged from our contacts with the police that we must ensure that an application against transphobic and homophobic violence does not overburden the police services. Furthermore, we also have FOOD that some can use for pleasure without any indication. That is why we are changing the application a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u44	I'd like to interrupt because I don't think that's the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u45	I have been distracted, but in fact, this is Question No 15000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u46	That's right, excuse me! I'm answering about the app when you asked me about prostitution! To my knowledge, there is no recent study incorporating all the laws of the countries of the European Union relating to sexual exploitation and prostitution. However, a report by the European Parliament's Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, adopted in February 2014, on sexual exploitation and prostitution and its impact on equality between men and women, provides an overview of the prostitution measures adopted in the Member States and four case studies on Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and Sweden. This report briefly presents the States where prostitution is legal and regulated, the Netherlands and Germany; those where prostitution is prohibited, such as Romania; States where prostitution is not illegal per se, but where related activities such as pimping, the exploitation of prostitution homes or the living of prostitution's income are criminal offences, such as Belgium and 15 other Member States; and lastly, Sweden, which was the only State in the Union where the purchase of sexual services is considered a criminal offence, and which has since been joined by Ireland and France. As far as harmonisation of the legislation of the different EU Member States is concerned, political unanimity will have to be taken into account in the approach to the problem. Given the very divergent views on this issue, it will be important to focus first and foremost on those parties for which there is consensus, such as the fight against child prostitution, trafficking and trafficking in human beings, in connection with sexual exploitation. In particular, it is desirable to develop a uniform approach to cross-border cases within the European Union, especially since traffickers benefit from the entanglement of legislation. To this end, the EU has already adopted Directive 2011/36/EU on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and on the protection of victims. This Directive sets minimum standards for Member States to prevent trafficking in human beings, effectively prosecute perpetrators and provide better protection for victims. This directive incorporates the gender dimension and penalizes the use of the work or sexual service of a person who is known to be a victim of trafficking in human beings. The European Commission's strategic commitment to gender equality 2016-2019 mentions in one of the central actions against violence: "to take the necessary measures to follow up on the report assessing Member States' compliance with the Directive on combating trafficking in human beings and to ensure that the dimension of equality in the face of trafficking in human beings is taken into account." Although this directive mainly concerns trafficking in human beings and not prostitution in general, the European Union calls on Member States to address the issue of prostitution – they can do so in different ways – in order to prevent sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation. In addition, there is also Directive 2011/93/EU on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which calls on Member States to take appropriate measures to discourage, reduce and combat demand for all forms of sexual exploitation of children. Finally, Directive 2012/29/EU laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime recognises the greatest vulnerability of victims of trafficking in human beings and gender-based violence and their specific protection and support needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I will read the text carefully. Is it possible to have the report of the European Parliament of February 2014? Could you send it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u48	No problem, we'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u49	This will also allow us to put it on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u50	That's very nice of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u51	Mrs Ben Hamou withdrew her question No. 15106, because it was the same question as her previous question. That's what she said. Mrs Lanjri, you have the last item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u52	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the 2007 anti-discrimination law explicitly defines the language element as one of the protected criteria. In this way, a candidate worker cannot or should not be expected to have a language level that is disproportionate to the nature and context of the job. For the sake of clarity, candidates will, of course, have to have a certain level of language for certain and even many functions. However, this level must always be proportionate. For example, for someone in the green service it will not be necessary for him to be able to participate in the Grand Dictee der Nederlandse Taal (Grote Dictee der Nederlandse Taal). Each function requires an adapted language level or a certain language level may be requested. However, this level should never be used to discriminate against people. For a cleaning woman it is important to have a certain language skills. It is important for her to be able to speak with her fellow cleaning women or cleanshers. However, it is not important that it has a very thorough knowledge of the language. However, it is also stipulated that a body or institution should be competent to receive language notifications. Unfortunately, today no institution has the power to receive complaints about possible discrimination in language. That is also what Unia states in the annual report. The institution shall also indicate that it intends to take up this task. Language-based discrimination is an important barrier to integration into the labour market. It is sometimes used unjustly as a way to ward off certain people. Language is used as an excuse to ward off certain people. My questions are as follows. What is the situation with regard to the problem? Do you intend to assign the order to receive language complaints to Unia or do you have another proposal? Will that assignment be assigned to someone else? I do not think it is illogical and even very logical that you should assign that task to Unia. Regardless of whether a person is discriminated against on the basis of his orientation, race or origin, but also of language, the complaints could be attributed to Unia, who has a lot of experience in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u53	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, unfortunately I can only respond briefly to your question because it is part of the evaluation of the three federal anti-discrimination laws. As you know, the Law of 10 May on combating certain forms of discrimination, including language discrimination in Article 22 of the Treaty, provided in Article 52 for an evaluation of the three federal anti-discrimination laws of 2007. That is why we have put together a committee of experts. The basic act for this is the Royal Decree of 18 November 2015. Through the Royal Decree, I then decided on the composition of the Committee of Experts. A second decision then finally regulated the appointment of the experts. This was done on 6 July 2016, with the publication on 4 August 2016. The committee is now examining this complete anti-discrimination legislation and they have been asked to submit a first report in six months' time. This will normally be for the beginning of next year, about February, since they started about half this year. The committee is in fact acting in complete neutrality. Also for what you describe as language discrimination, I will have to wait for that committee's report. I cannot, of course, influence a decision taken by a committee that acts in complete neutrality. I was present at the start-up, but I'm not allowed to know about the continuation of their work for a while. So I am waiting for a first report to look at what we need to change about this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, the fact that we need to evaluate the laws is not a problem in itself. After all, we agreed on this and I hope that these results will be achieved soon. However, the substance of the matter is something else. What you evaluate, of course, is a law in progress. However, the problem I am raising here is that there is a law and that it is because of a lack of language that is not your responsibility, which dates back to the past, to an institution that can receive these complaints about language on that aspect will never be evaluated. There is therefore little point in waiting for an evaluation of this aspect of language, since the failure of the previous governments to effectively designate a body responsible for the linguistic aspect is not sufficient to evaluate it. For the rest no problem but one can only evaluate it once it is in progress. Apparently, it may be put into effect if some authority may be a decision that you, the political or the government may have jurisdiction over. I'm just saying that Unia seems to me to be the agency that could do that. We are not going to be able to evaluate this aspect until it is in progress. All I ask you to do is to designate an authority that can record and process these complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u55	This is the use of languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u56	This is mainly about the use of languages as a tool for discrimination. That's the problem! It is not a question of whether to speak French, Dutch, etc. Companies use language knowledge as a means of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u57	That may in fact be the conclusion of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u58	In 2007, this was registered in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u59	That's what the law says, and that needs to be evaluated. The conclusion may then be that this is not good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u60	There's nothing to evaluate yet. The Committee evaluates how the law has functioned so far. However, this aspect of the law has not yet been able to function and therefore cannot be evaluated in substance. It can only be established that this aspect of the law has not yet been implemented. The previous governments have therefore failed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u61	It should therefore be either given to Unia or identified by another body that would receive the complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic542x.u62	Question No 13933 by Mr Emir Kir is postponed.
