ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question, which concerns both the province of Luxembourg and the rest of Belgium, echoes a question raised earlier concerning Limburg and to which you answered specifically for this province. I therefore hope that your answer today will concern both the province of Luxembourg and the rest of Belgium. My question is about threats to railway stations and lines. Like others, the province of Luxembourg has long been heavily affected by the destruction of public services. We will not go back to the railway history of this province, but in the 1980s, an entire line had been closed. In addition, the city of Bastogne has not had a train in 25 years. The new 2014 transportation plan also had very serious consequences for the people of the province. The journey times have thus been extended, the matches are less good. It is said that it was faster to join Arlon from Brussels at the time of the steam train! The transportation plan mobilized many players in the province during a "train of anger" in February 2015. Many stations have been closed, becoming mere stops. Since then, windows have been closed, buildings are most often inaccessible to the public. In this context, a demonstration took place in Virton, bringing together residents and trade unions. It brought together 250 people and aimed to obtain the permanent opening of the station during the day. Madam Minister, so, through the example of Luxembourg, my questions are all about the whole country. What lines, stations and stop points are envisaged to be removed and what stations are envisaged to be transformed into stop points by the end of the legislature? Does this policy of systematic destruction of railway stations and lines, which you have not initiated but which you are pursuing, not, in your opinion, pose problems of access to a democratic price for the means of transport, of improving mobility in the light of the road congestion we are experiencing, as well as of the climate objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u2	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, the obligation to serve lines, stations and stop points is defined by the management contract between SNCB and the federal state. According to this management contract, SNCB does not intend to abolish the service of lines, stations or stop points or to transform stations into stop points. Of the 33 stations for which the closure of the ticket office was decided by the SNCB Board of Directors in mid-2015, five still remain where closure is not yet achieved: Mariembourg, Bertrix, Bouvy, Rivage and Poperinge. These closures will occur as soon as the operational requirements for traffic management are automated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u3	Minister, are you talking about the province of Luxembourg or the whole of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u4	I am referring to the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u5	Your question was about the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u7	That was your question. But it is true that it concerned both the province of Luxembourg and the whole country. If you want to talk about the whole of Belgium, I suggest that you table a question next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u8	All right, it'll only be the third. You will not have to complain about the number of questions that are tabled. I think it is bad decisions to close all these stations, including the five still threatened in the province of Luxembourg. I wanted to ask this question for the whole country. By hearing your answer and trying to transpose it to the whole country, you are telling me that taking into account everything that was decided in mid-2015, there will be no further deletion by the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u9	According to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u10	Mr Van Hees, I propose that you put another question for Belgium as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u11	Okay, but I thought it was more striking to start from the example of a province.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u12	Madam President, Minister, you have also read it: the French authorities are thinking of introducing a virtual driving licence for foreigners travelling on French roads. There would already be legislative proposals on this subject. The system would consist of 12 points, whereby a foreign driver could be banned from entering France, but would also provide for the possibility of impounding the vehicle. We recently discussed the bilateral agreements. I think it is on the agenda of the plenary this afternoon. This allows the exchange of information between France and Belgium on offenders living in Belgium, for example. Is that message correct? Have you been in contact with your French colleague on this matter? Could you give us some more information on this? If the message is correct, how does it affect the bilateral agreements that have been concluded? Does this seem like a good system or not, which may also be introduced in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the French want to introduce a virtual driving licence with points for foreigners. Just like a Frenchman, a foreigner will get virtual 12 points. If he loses these 12 points, there will be a driving ban in France. At the moment it is not clear how long this driving ban will last and what the penalty will be if this driving ban is violated. I have not received any official information from the competent French authorities. The intention of the French to introduce a virtual driving licence for foreigners is separate from the bilateral agreement between Belgium and France and from the application of the Cross Border Enforcement Directive, whereby the data relating to the license plate and the identity of the offenders are exchanged. In doing so, only a fine shall be sent to the offender. In my opinion, the virtual driving licence with points is only applicable if the driver himself was identified when he was held in France. It is the French Government's intention that foreigners should be treated on an equal footing with the French. At present, it is enough for a foreign offender to pay his fine each time. In future, the parallel application of the driving licence with points will also allow for a driving ban. I do not have to say whether it is a good system or a bad one in France. Can it be applied to us? I do not think it can be done as such, because, as you know, I am working, together with my colleagues from the Interior and Justice Department, to tighten up existing instruments and legislation, such as the implementation of the crossroads bank of driving licences or the Cross Border Directive, in order to better combat the repetition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u14	Madam President, Minister, if I understand correctly, it is still a proposal and has not yet been transposed into a law. We will not be faced with Belgian drivers who are banned from driving in France at the moment or in the next holiday period. I think we should follow this up. Belgium has not yet been officially informed of this possible French intention. It's all about messages. The proposal still has to go through the parliamentary mill. Especially in the field of communication, this has to be followed, because there are a lot of Belgians driving by car in France. They must know what awaits them on the French roads. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u15	Madam Minister, this question is about the alcohol lock and how we apply it and what is currently happening in the Netherlands. For a long time now, the BIVV has been pushing for administrative simplification for the use of the alcohol lock because it does not seem to be so successful here. In the Netherlands, it seems that steps are being taken in the area of administrative imposition, which could be a simplification. That is where it is now felt that it should be passed through a court ruling. To what extent does this element affect the issues we are dealing with here? I'm looking at you now, Madam Secretary. You yourself are in favour of placing an alcohol lock in school buses and cars. What steps will we take to use the alcohol lock, a very good tool for drivers with alcohol problems? How can legislation in the Netherlands influence this? Where do you stand with the change in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u16	Minister, since the entry into force of the Royal Order authorizing the installation of on-board ethylotests, which make it possible to condition the start of the vehicle to a negative ethylotest, only 25 vehicles would have actually been equipped with this system. Experts in the sector justify the causes of non-success of these devices, in particular by way of too heavy a prior judicial procedure: a conviction is necessary in Belgium, while some neighbouring countries apply this system by simple administrative decision. In addition, the high cost of care, up to 3,500 euros over three years, remains entirely at the expense of the convicted person. The Belgian Institute for Road Safety is now calling for a simplification of the conditions for the imposition of on-board ethylotet and a generalisation of this measure, both preventive and punitive, to all drivers checked with a certain level of alcohol in the blood. Minister, do you confirm the statistics according to which only 25 vehicles have actually been equipped with a diethylotest system for six years? Have any other lines of evidence justifying this low figure been identified by your administration? Your department has indicated its intention to analyse the possibility of extending its application to serious and repeated offences of alcohol levels, as well as to prevent accidents in the transport of persons. Are concrete measures in this direction already under consideration within your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u17	Dear colleague, indeed, the anti-start ethylotest programme, as it existed in the Netherlands, met with real success until the beginning of last year because it was applied as an administrative measure to all those who met specific criteria. Since the jurisprudence of the Dutch Council of State of 4 March 2015, no more anti-start ethylotest can be placed. According to the Council of State, the anti-start ethylotest programme was disproportionate as it was not possible to take into account the effects of this sanction in relation to different persons or specific situations. It appears that today there is no longer an Ethiotest anti-start 2.0 program in the Netherlands. Since the entry into force of our Belgian rules on anti-start ethylotest, in October 2010, there are not 25 but 35 vehicles equipped with an anti-start ethylotest. Given that the Ethiotest law enforcement model was only approved in November 2011 and that the service centre was only recognized in August 2012, we can see that over three and a half years, 35 people joined the mentoring program. This number may be relatively low (about 10 per year), but it is noted that people continue to join the mentoring program and that the latter is mostly positively assessed by participants. The pain points that are cited in the Netherlands to step away from the alcohol lock, also exist with us. Due to the high cost of the alcohol lock, especially in relation to the existing fines for these offences, judges are not inclined to condemn individuals to an alcohol lock. I would like to change this by substantially raising the fines and/or the periods of decay and by obliging the judges to have an alcohol lock pronounced for alcohol recidivists, unless they give detailed reasons why they do not do so. If the judge does not impose an anti-start ethylotest, the period of disqualification of the right to drive will be substantially increased. The installation of an alcohol lock in passenger transport is one of my objectives in order to ensure increased safety. During the States-General of Road Safety of 15 December 2015, ministers gave their support to this system. My administration is currently studying the way in which a regulation can be developed in cooperation with the Regions and the federations that will be consulted as soon as possible. This measure is envisaged in the framework of professional goods and passenger transport. The aim of this project is not to stigmatise professional carriers. The alcohol lock will be used preventively and not punishingly. A first study is currently being carried out to consider all practical and legal aspects. This research is necessary to ensure the quality and future realisation of this project, taking into account the various bodies and federations involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u18	Madam Minister, it is very ambitious, but I believe that this is also necessary. Thank you for your answer, especially because it is so detailed. I can totally follow you on this. However, we may have to consider the high cost that will still be incurred if this is proposed as a preventive measure to the professional sector. When we see a traffic jam caused by a driver who is under the influence, I believe that such a system can prevent such things from happening in future. However, this high cost remains. That aspect will have to be taken into account in the full debate. Thank you, however, and I wish you every success in rolling it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u19	I too would like to join my colleague, Mr Dumery, in congratulating you on your efforts in this area. It is true that 35 vehicles are more than 25, which is the figure I mentioned in my question. It's still too little. Madam Minister, could the administrative penalties for overruns not, if they were even more severe than they are to date, also be a driving force for the program you have implemented to be more attractive? I hope that these small suggestions will lead to reflection in your departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u20	The meeting was suspended. The Minister is in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u21	Welcome back, Madam Secretary. That was fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u22	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago a number of fellow Members tabled a resolution in the hope of retaining the bicycle points. The sp.a considers the disappearance of a number of cycling points to be a real mistake, not only because this measure contradicts your policy paper on multimodal transfer points, but also, above all, because of the reduction of services to the traveller and not to mention the fact that a number of social economy projects have disappeared. At least 75 jobs in the social economy are in danger of disappearing. In addition to the disappearance of these jobs in the social economy, there is also the fact that the ongoing tender of the railways for the operation of the remaining bicycle points is a European tender. This means that the social clause is no longer being applied, as was the case with the previous three calls. In other words, commercial companies will now also be able to compete. For the major centres, this poses an additional threat to the social economy. In my region, among other things, Leuven, which is one of the most interesting commercial stations, is threatened. In another city in my region, Diest, the cycling point may remain, but it is feared that the EUR 24 000 service fee paid to date by SNCB will be halved. Twenty-five per cent of that remuneration already returned to SNCB for rent and utilities. Madam Secretary, nothing is what it seems in this matter. Cycling points that do not disappear are at risk of losing one of their main assets, namely the social economy. The others are in danger of getting into financial difficulties. I would therefore like to ask you the following specific questions. How much federal subsidies will Diest cycle point have to turn in? In what way do you intend to compensate for this, so that the bicycle point can maintain its operation? Do you agree with the European tender, which threatens the social economy in a number of cycling points? What will you do to avoid difficulties in this respect? What will you do to save the social economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u23	Mr President, SNCB grants contracts to the operators of the bicycle points by means of a call for tenders. It pays a fee, for example for the maintenance and supervision of bicycle storage facilities and for the removal of abandoned bicycles. SNCB will award these assignments to the best candidates and adjust the level of service requested according to the needs of the station. The negotiated procedure for awarding public contracts is currently under way. The exact amount to be received by the undertaking awarded for the contracts is only known at the time of the award. The procurement procedure is a negotiated procedure with prior call for applications for one contract with different lots in function of the stations. The limits for a European publication are exceeded for those contracts. The future strategy for cycling points will also be discussed with the Regions in the context of the intermodal platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I do not feel that I have received an answer to my questions. After all these years, I know how such an invitation to tender works. However, you did not answer my specific questions at all. I can therefore conclude that things remain as they are, that subsidies for Diest will be reduced and that nothing will be done to save that social economy. At least I understand that from your words. I suppose you would have rejected that otherwise. In any case, thank you for your depressing answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u25	Madam Secretary, SNCB wants to sell part of the old railway bed between Tongeren and Sint-Truiden to a private person. At least that's what we're hearing. It is an area in Borgloon and Tongeren of no less than 11 hectares, which is today managed by Natuurpunt. Apparently, the private person has offered EUR 550 000 for it. As manager of the area, Natuurpunt has a pre-purchase right, but the price offered by the private investor, EUR 550 000, is obviously not feasible for the nature association. The old Fruit trail, as it is called, between Tongeren and Sint-Truiden dates from the 19th century and as a nature reserve houses many species that are not normally found in Haspengouw. A cycling route network has also been developed in this region. It has a unique heritage and natural value for Flanders, and is also a tourist lifeblood for the region. This railway is also particularly valuable for mobility. The railway bed forms a safe tourist bike and hiking connection in many places. Madam Secretary, I would like to hear from you the following. Firstly, can you confirm that the sale of this railway bed to a private person is under consideration? Secondly, what specific reason is there for the sale of this railway bed? Thirdly, it seems that the province of Limburg has never been informed of the proposed sale. Also Natuurpunt is not previously informed. The association has only been informed because this is compulsory because of the pre-purchase right. Why were not all the parties concerned informed about this proposed sale from the outset?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u26	Mr President, Minister, the riverbed of the former line 23 between Sint-Truiden and Borgloon has been partially leased to the province of Limburg since 1993. The old railway is a beautiful piece of nature with a unique heritage and natural value, which is also a tourist lifeblood for the region. Beautiful photos have been published in several newspapers. It is really a beautiful route that has been built there in the meantime. The railway line used to transport fruit and is therefore also an important element in the region's fruit tourism. It also has an important mobility value. After all, it is a busy walking and cycling connection. The management is carried out by Natuurpunt, some local associations and the municipalities concerned. SNCB would be close to a sale contract for the railway station. The province of Limburg and the municipalities and associations concerned would not have been aware of the sales plans. For the reasons outlined above, it does not seem appropriate for the former railway line to end up in private hands. If this happens, there is a fear that the accessibility of the area will also suffer, so that this beautiful area will no longer be publicly accessible if the owner has other plans. I therefore have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, can you confirm that SNCB intends to sell the rail link in question? If so, what is the state of play in this sale? Is there an agreement with an interested buyer yet? Has a date been set for the deed of sale? Secondly, why was the area offered for sale? Thirdly, is it true that the province, Natuurpunt and the municipalities were only recently informed of the sales plans? If so, how did this happen? Do you believe that this has been done correctly? Fourthly, what general principles does SNCB apply in its land and property policy? Finally, are the public interest and ongoing socially valuable projects taken into account in the possible sale of such land? If so, how does that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u27	Madam Minister, I agree with the questions that have already been raised on this subject. On 25 February 2016, a resolution by my colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu on improving bicycle connections to and from stations was adopted in plenary. I would like to refer to the third point in this resolution, which calls for SNCB and Infrabel to be available when the road manager or the local or regional authorities want to use the abandoned railway beds or areas next to railways for better bicycle access. The Regional Landscape of Haspengouw and Voeren at its meeting on 7 March was particularly concerned about the possible sale of this bed and stressed the importance of this bicycle connection for recreational and functional use. I have a number of questions about that. What plans does SNCB have for the bed of the former railway 23? Has there been any consideration of this issue in the context of bicycle access, as proposed in Resolution No. 54/1253? What balancing framework do SNCB and Infrabel use when selling abandoned railway beds and what arguments are there in this particular file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u28	The SNCB owns the site of the former railway 23 Borgloon tongeren. According to SNCB, this railway line was decommissioned and broken down in 1968. Over the years, several sections have been sold to private individuals and public authorities. Which means this railroad bed is no longer continuous. In 2013, SNCB offered all remaining grounds of the railway bed for sale to the province of Limburg. However, in early 2014, the Province announced that it did not wish to purchase these land. This offer by SNCB was part of its strategy of valorising land which it no longer needs to carry out its public service tasks. Some time ago, SNCB was contacted by an interested private person to sell a remaining part. No cycling paths have been realized on this part. Since Natuurpunt is now responsible for the maintenance of this part of the railway bed, it was given the opportunity to make an offer on the part in question. According to the rules of good management, SNCB will also consult the market. SNCB shall always take into account statutory pre-purchase rights once all bids have been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Are the bids still running or were they closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u30	Werden. Normally it's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u31	Is there a person or is there more than one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u32	A private person. That's the information from SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u33	Madam Secretary, this does not help us much. I specifically asked you about the state of the art of the sale. I would be very sorry if it were to take place in this way, and there are no guarantees that the private buyer will be obliged to keep that route open. The valuable to the area is just that route with the beautiful nature, which people use for hiking and cycling. I have also asked you what the policy in this area is, and what principles are being applied by SNCB. What are the criteria for selling properties and land? We haven't heard much about that. I am therefore rather disappointed by your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u35	Question No 10224 by Mr Devin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, last March we learned that HR Rail had just informed the unions that "since no agreement could currently be reached on the draft of a new social agreement and the draft of a new trade union agreement, the balance of the 2015 trade union agreement will be reduced by the cost of permanent delegates' remuneration and the cost of union leave as of January 1, 2016." In other words, the salaries of permanent delegates are frozen until the social agreement is signed. If this is confirmed, we are thus faced with a retaliatory measure which can obviously only be assimilated to blackmail. What is unacceptable, and what is more, in the head of a public company! In addition, the SNCB Group acts in a totally irresponsible manner in full negotiation with the social partners. Minister, do you confirm the salary freeze for permanent delegates? If so, have you reminded the management of the SNCB Group to order and have you taken the necessary steps to put an immediate end to this unacceptable situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the SNCB Group has informed the unions that it has been blocking the pay of permanent union members since January 1. This blockage will persist until the social agreement protocol is signed, reports the newspaper L'Echo. We have recently learned that a trade union organization does not sign this agreement. This form of blackmail on the part of HR Rail management is unprecedented. The memorandum of understanding looks bad for the railwaymen. But to force a bad deal, management forces the unions to cut off their food. It is an unacceptable blackmail that undermines any social dialogue. Minister, do you confirm the facts? Now that we have some hindsight, can you say if this threat has been implemented? What is the amount at stake? If there has been a food cut, what is the period? Is it holding? More fundamentally, Madam Minister, who says that you want to focus on social consultation, will you intervene to stop this blackmail situation as it stands today and for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, HR Rail informs me that, as in the past, a trade union agreement is drafted with the trade union organisations after a social agreement has been reached. The trade union agreement with the trade union organisations was terminated on 23 June 2015 by 31 December 2015. HR Rail has written as a conservatory to trade union organisations. The organisations will communicate their official position to the draft Memorandum of Understanding at the meeting of the Steering Committee on 20 April. We must therefore wait for the outcome of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u39	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. I would have appreciated it if she could, given the threats that are unprecedented, give us her opinion and that she could also, at some point, play her role as minister and perhaps punch on the table. Indeed, this blackmail situation is unacceptable. In this context, you should, as a minister, indicate much more strongly that such a practice cannot be accepted by a company that claims to be public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u40	Madam Minister, as far as the facts are concerned, if I understand your answer correctly, you are telling us that on 1 January this was not applied by HR Rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u42	Mr Van Hees, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u43	Yes, but I'm trying to get the minister's answer to see if I understand her answer. In substance, since you just want to answer the question, I would have liked you to really answer it. My question was: "Will you intervene to stop this blackmail situation?" You did not answer that question, minister. Since you haven't answered, that means...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u45	The minister told you that it is not her who manages the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u46	There is, therefore, some way to obtain clarification. We are making progress, Madam Minister, but we are not making progress on the social front because I think that this kind of blackmail is really unworthy of a democratic country in which I thought I was living. Your passivity in relation to this policy makes me sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u47	Minister, on Wednesday, March 9, Le Soir was entitled "2,200 railway workers less by December 31, 2018". Indeed, this is reflected in the text of the Memorandum of Understanding, which has not been signed or approved by all trade union organisations. It should be stressed that this is a massive loss of jobs. The same newspaper Le Soir recalled that the previous memorandum of understanding had not been respected. Not only have many agents been removed as planned, but we have even gone beyond them. In theory, it was necessary to maintain 38,000 agents, and they were only 34,000. This is all the more worrying because the commitment is not concrete. The protocol provides that the figures "could be refined on the basis of important factors which may influence the level of employment and whose weight is difficult to measure until the business plan and the management contract are concluded within each of these undertakings". In other words, management is not committed to guaranteeing 31,765 jobs. Finally, management is just committed to reducing employment, but they don't know how much. These are alarming figures. I therefore ask you the following questions. Do you confirm the number of 31,765 workers? Do you confirm the possibility of going further below this threshold? Are you of the opinion that such a possibility is admissible? Do you intend to intervene to set an impassable threshold for employment, a floor below which one could not go down? Do you think that such a reduction in jobs is likely to develop a modern SNCB capable of facing the challenges of mobility and environmental challenges? Can you commit to not taking measures, for example in the management contract, that could negatively influence the level of employment and harm users?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u48	I can confirm this figure, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this number has been determined on the basis of a number of assumptions. The negotiations on management contracts are still ongoing, and these agreements, among other things, determine the number of staff required to carry out public service tasks, as well as the demand to improve productivity by 4 % in each of the two companies. It is up to companies to determine their staffing needs. It goes without saying that this workforce is one of the parameters to be managed in order to improve quality and performance for the benefit of the traveller, within the budgetary framework requested by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u49	Minister, thank you for answering my question by repeating the content of my question. All your answers are copy-paste, it's SNCB that manages things. There are inaccuracies about the figures. You confirm the figure of 31,765 workers, but you do not confirm it because different assumptions might call this figure into question. We're starting to get used to these non-responses and we're finally wondering what your rail policy is. We have the impression that there is a total lack of interest in the development of the rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u50	Madam Minister, you obviously like leather! My question concerns the first class. Regularly, users complain about crowded trains and are less concerned about whether they will have leather seats than about whether they will be able to sit. Trains suffer from a chronic shortage of seats. I had the opportunity to read books on Flemish workers who took the train to work in Wallonia in the 19th century. They complained about the conditions under which they had to travel. They complained of being transported like cattle. We have the impression that things have changed little today, even though the seats are a little more comfortable than they are in leather and fabric. It is still aberrant to have to travel standing in the 21st century. The fact that the first classes allow us to sit down, whereas this is not possible in the second, reminds us of the segregationist situations that have been experienced in the United States or South Africa. Your recent statements about these first luxury classes with leather seats to which the second classes would not be entitled only add to the anger of the users. What justifications do you give for this distinction between rich and poor users? What is the percentage of SNCB users using the first class? What are the additional revenues generated by SNCB as a result of this upgrade? What are the costs (labour, car manufacturing and development, etc.) created by the existence of both classes? Are the additional revenues generated by the upgrade higher than the costs of the first class? In the order for the new M7 vehicles formalized in December 2015, what is the additional cost of first-class cars? How much is the bill for the famous leather seats you plan on equipping the first-class M7s?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u51	At present, the presence of the first and second classes is no longer related to any segregation of the clientele on the basis of income. The SNCB offers two distinct environments, each with their own level of comfort. It's a personal choice of the client. The additional comfort in the first class can be manifested by a greater space for the legs, a more pleasant seat covering, the arrangement of the 2 + 1 seats instead of 2 + 2, the presence of floor mats, additional armrests, sockets, fold-down seats, a liner, etc. All these features are obviously not found in each type of hardware. In addition, certain categories of persons, including unaccompanied children under 12 years of age, may travel free of charge in the first or second class. For home/work travel, the employer has a legal obligation to intervene in the price of the second class train subscription. Many of them pay the full cost of this and, in some cases, the first-class supplement. In 2015, 2.8% of the journeys were made in first class in domestic traffic. The revenue generated in domestic traffic for the first class is 5.8%. The coefficient applied to the total price of the additional cost between the first and second classes shall be 1.54 above the fixed minimum fee. As a result, the additional revenues are about 1.7% of domestic traffic revenues. First- and second-class cars are subject to the same maintenance cycle. There is no difference in the cost of their respective maintenance. Vehicle construction costs do not differ. For example, for the M6, the prices of the cars A first class and B second class were identical. With regard to Desiro car drivers, the differentiation between the first and second classes is very limited. For M7, an AB car, i.e. mixed (1st and 2nd classes), costs 1.9% more than a fully second-class B car. In order to properly assess the additional costs associated with the first class, account must be taken of the fact that the number of seats may vary depending on the type of car. In the case of M7, the overall additional cost related to equipment and mainly to capacity reduction is EUR 1 190 per seating position. As far as investment costs are concerned, of course, they must be related to the life of the equipment. The revenue generated by the upgrade to the first class effectively covers the additional cost of a first class seating position. The additional cost of the leather coating is EUR 301 per seat, which is included in the total additional cost of EUR 1 190 already mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. You tell us that the extra cost is marginal compared to the revenue generated by the first class. We learn that leather coating costs 301 euros per seat. That's the technical aspect. On the other hand, with regard to your answer to the lack of segregation and the expression of a personal choice, I cannot, of course, join you. This certainly does not surprise me, coming from someone who shares a liberal ideology based on a decisive personal choice. I feel like I hear an argument from the 19th century when you deny a whole part of social history. We are returning to real economic segregation. For those with modest income who have to pay an additional cost of EUR 100 or 200 per month, this is not an economic choice. On the other hand, the one who has thousands of euros and hides his money in Panama, will travel more easily by train even if he has a car with driver.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u53	Minister, Belgocontrol's third management contract provides that the so-called "terminal" air traffic control services for regional airports and Brussels Airport are in whole or in part invoiced to the federal state. This is the case for benefits in Brussels, Liège and Charleroi where these benefits are partially charged to the Federal State, but also to Antwerp and Ostend for which terminal benefits are charged to the Federal State in their entirety, the Flemish Region or Flemish airports not involved in the care, unlike the Walloon Region. I have asked you a number of questions on this subject, because I believe that aviation safety should be a priority and should be properly funded. I would therefore like to insist again. Can you communicate, possibly in writing, the total amount of terminal services performed by Belgocontrol in 2014 and 2015 for each of the five Belgian airports under its control? Can you, for each of the five airports, inform us of the total amount and the part invoiced, on the one hand, to the federal state and, on the other hand, to third parties? Can you confirm that the State has paid the invoices sent to it by Belgocontrol to date concerning the said benefits? What is the status of renegotiation with the Regions of the 1989 Cooperation Agreement? In the absence of appropriations provided for in the initial budget for 2016 to cover Belgocontrol's services, what amounts were requested and obtained during the budgetary control in order to honour future invoices? The situation in Belgocontrol is difficult, it has nothing to do with the wildcat strike that we are experiencing today, but you know that these tensions are also due to these problems of financing, recruitment, and this disinvestment. In order to resolve current and future situations, it is imperative that we take this case with us, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u54	Dear colleague, until 2014, the costs of air navigation services at the five Belgian airports were not charged to the Federal State. Some of the costs were charged to the Regions for regional airports and to users for Brussels-National airport. The unbilled costs were borne by Belgocontrol, which therefore had a structural deficit. To solve this problem, the third management contract adopted in 2014 introduced a new system for financing Belgocontrol's services at Belgian airports. Since 2015, some of the services have been financed by users, some by the Regions and some by the Federal State. The distribution keys for 2015 were set by the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014. The proportion of the costs determined by the Federal State was set at 69 % for Charleroi airport, 35 % for Liège airport, 100 % for Antwerp and Ostend airports and 25 % for Brussels-National airport. In 2015, the fixed costs of Belgocontrol air navigation services at Belgian airports amounted to EUR 7.5 million for Charleroi airport, EUR 7.2 million for Liège airport, EUR 5.4 million for Antwerp airport, EUR 2.3 million for Ostend airport and EUR 34 million for Brussels-National airport. The invoices for Belgocontrol services issued between January 2015 and October 2015 were paid by the Federal State. The November service invoice has been partially paid and subsequent invoices have not yet been paid. As regards the renegotiation of the 1989 Cooperation Agreement, negotiations are still under way. As agreed in the budget conclave, the question of the supplementary budget of EUR 25 million will be discussed either this week or next week in the Council of Ministers, because this week I have to participate in the European Transport Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u55	Minister, I think it is important to speed up these negotiations with the Regions. You confirm today that the Flemish Region does not pay anything in this regard. Of course, there is a question of sharing, but is it honouring the payment of its bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u56	It's the airport that takes care of it directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u57	In the initial budget, as part of the budgetary agreement concluded last week by the Prime Minister, did you get the 25 million for Belgocontrol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u58	Negotiations on this matter are still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u59	So you are telling us that this budgetary agreement is not really an agreement, since negotiations are still under way on Belgocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u60	It is planned to address this specific issue at a Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u61	I do not understand the budgetary method. Of course, we condemn this wildcat strike, but I believe that the conciliation of the negotiations and the related budget should be reported to Belgocontrol. Indeed, this approach to managing security at Brussels-National airport leaves something to be desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u62	I have another question about the lack of a social agreement and its consequences for the trade unions. On 7 March, the trade unions received a letter from the top man of HR Rail at SNCB. In this report, he reports that the balance of the 2015 syndicated convention is reduced from the remuneration of permanent representatives and from the syndicated leave. After all, the trade union convention ended at the end of 2015 and since January there has been no agreement on the basis of which the trade unions are entitled to an allowance. This is a huge grant of approximately EUR 11 million per year. The unions are talking about blackmail. However, SNCB's management had warned against this in December 2015. This is an unexpectedly good saving for SNCB, now that a new social agreement is being negotiated. My question was drafted in March. Today we note that the social agreement is being rejected. It seems urgent to us to look critically at the whole system. This expenditure does not in any way contribute to the provision of services to travellers. I recall, Madam Secretary, that you were also critical in previous replies about the donations to the trade unions. According to N-VA, it is illogical for them to be calculated on a higher number of employee benefits or VTEs than there are in practice. It is calculated on the basis of 38 000 staff instead of the 34 000 currently available. This means that the trade unions get more money than they actually have the right to do their job. In times of savings, that is striking. If the number of employees in the next few years is going to fall to 31 765, it seems to us only logical that this trade union allowance should also fall proportionately. In addition, you also want to organise social elections in the time span of the forthcoming trade union convention. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you confirm that no trade union allowance, with the exception of the trade union contribution, will be paid for the period from January to today? How many personnel benefits will the trade union convention and the corresponding trade union allowances be based on? Will the number of exempts be reduced? That's over 70. Will union allowances be made dependent on the results of the social elections and will this be taken into account in the trade union convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u63	In a registered letter dated 25 June 2015, the conventions with the syndicated organisations concluded in 2009 and 2010 were terminated by December 2015. Negotiations are under way with the organizations for the conclusion of a new protocol of social agreement and a new trade union convention. The new trade union convention will take account of the number of employees. This will not exceed the number of staff employed on 1 January 2016. The number of exempt persons will also take into account the number of staff employed on the Belgian railways. The trade-union convention now being drawn up within the current legal decisions on trade-union representativeness at HR Rail covers the period 2016-2018. Discussions do not yet take account of new legislative initiatives on the holding of social elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u64	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that SNCB can make savings on this dossier without any inconvenience to the traveller. The savings on staff also means that the company can save on the donation to the trade unions. For the correct figures, I will submit a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u65	Madam Minister, last year questions were asked here about Midi Station, the restaurant on Brussels-South. In the spring of last year, this was transferred to a private partner. This choice was made because SNCB does not have to deal with activities which do not actually contribute to passenger transport. The Midi Station case was losing for years and went bankrupt. In my opinion, a public undertaking which provides for public transport should not expose itself to such risks. I recently read in the media that the old post office in Brussels-Central is being set up as a restobar. It was supposed to be called Central Park. It is positive that there will be activity in that part of the station, but it should not be the intention to launch a "Midi Station'. Who will run Central Park in Brussels Central? How much does SNCB invest to rehire the property? At what time will the investment costs be recovered with the estimated rental income? On the basis of which criteria was the project assigned at all? Were there any other candidate projects other than a restobar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u66	Madam President, Central Park will be run by Le Central Park sprl. This will be done under a concession contract, for a period of nine years, concluded by SNCB after a market consultation with the company. SNCB itself invested 175 000 euros in the space it makes available. The investment concerns electricity, ventilation and water supply. All other works, including installation works, shall be wholly borne by the concessionaire. In view of the concession fee paid by the concessionaire to SNCB on a monthly basis, SNCB will recover its investment in less than six years. SNCB has, of course, consulted the market for a new exploitation of the space. Of the three candidates who showed interest during the consultation phase, the project was finally chosen by Le Central Park sprl. The criteria on the basis of which the three projects were assessed are first and foremost the proposed concept and its quality and complementarity throughout the station. In addition, account was also taken of the concession fee offered and the investments which the candidate concessionary was willing to bear himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u67	I thank the Minister for her clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, since the end of February 2015, work on the Aalst station has been ongoing. The shuttle car park includes a new car park for about 900 cars and a covered bicycle storage for 750 bicycles. Due to the work on the shuttle car park, only 350 of the 700 parking spaces will be available in the next two years. There is currently no compensation for the halving of this capacity. The alternative temporary parking on the Tragel won't be here for another five months. To reduce parking pressure, commuters are encouraged to consider alternatives to the car, which is a very good thing. However, many commuters had purchased long-term parking tickets, for a month, three months or sometimes even for a year. They are no longer sure of their place in the shuttle parking. When the shuttle parking was paid a few years ago, the commuters with a parking ticket were promised that they would always have a place. That is why I have the following questions. What specific measures were taken in Aalst to ensure a place in the shuttle parking for all commuters with a parking ticket? Is compensation provided for commuters who are confronted by the work by the fact that they have no place because of a full parking lot? What should commuters do with a parking ticket when they find a full parking? Can they, free of charge or with their subscription, which of course is not free of charge, possibly go to another car park? Have you made any arrangements with the city for that? Can a commuter from a submunicipality who normally takes the train in Aalst because of the offer and therefore bought a parking ticket there, but who now takes the train in another station in a submunicipality because of the work, also park there? Has there been any consultation with De Lijn with regard to the use of alternative forms of transport? Is kiss-and-ride zones provided? Are any shuttle bikes available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u69	Mrs Temmerman, according to SNCB, Aalst's station parking was never full before the works. There are three different categories of users: regular train passengers with parking tickets, casual train passengers buying tickets and SNCB staff. On the parking is installed a system that counts the number of places per category. The main priority of SNCB's parking strategy is to offer a guaranteed parking space to passengers with a train subscription. Before the start of the works, SNCB took a number of measures, namely to stop the sale of new parking tickets, to stop offering parking tickets for non-subscribers and to reduce the number of places for SNCB's staff. SNCB therefore has enough parking space at its disposal today for its current subscribers. There is currently no waiting list of travellers who want to buy a parking ticket. All city buses and also most of the local buses of De Lijn stop at the station of Aalst. Motorists can come to the station by bus without any problems. SNCB informs me that it is not currently planning any other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u71	Question No 10284 by Mr Cheron is transformed into a written question and question No 10353 by Mr Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, in mid-March, SNCB Europe announced the end of the international link between Brussels and Basel, which used line 161-162 and served the main stations on it. This decision has already been in effect since 3 April. The argument that travel time is too long is of course valid, but the latter is due to a prolongation linked to the endless work on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, which affects tens of thousands of Namibian, Walloon and Luxembourg commuters on a daily basis. After the hope of putting a pendulum train into service has been extinguished, the end of the Brussels-Bâle link thus removes its status as an international line on line 161-162. This is another bad news for mobility in the south of Wallonia. Minister, do you confirm the termination of this affair? What are the reasons for this? Has this decision been coordinated with the French and Swiss companies? What was their reaction? How many travellers used this line each month? What will be the consequences of this deletion in relation to the international status of line 161-162? What alternatives will be proposed in terms of international links for the inhabitants of the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u73	Mr Gilkinet, I confirm that the two Eurocity trains known as Vauban and Iris ceased operating on Sunday, 3 April 2016. The reasons for this deletion have already been expressed in my reply to question No 9762 by Mrs Grovonius on 16 March 2016. This decision was taken at the time in consultation with the French, Swiss and Luxembourg companies. As far as the number of travellers using this line is concerned, no information has been provided to me by SNCB, since it is a matter of business secrecy, but I can tell you, however, what alternatives will be proposed. For Namur and Arlon, the relationship to Strasbourg via the Luxembourg train station remains the most interesting, as it is served 18 times a day via one relationship per hour. At the Luxembourg train station, it is possible to make connections to Thionville, Metz, Nancy and to Strasbourg via the TGV East from 3 April. Finally, over the last five years, 300 million have been invested on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, notably for the replacement of works of art, the re-electrification in 25 kW, the partial renewal of signalling systems, but also for the redevelopment of the stations of Gembloux, Ciney and Jemelle. In addition, future investments are currently being discussed within the investment unit, given the importance of this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u74	Madam Minister, that is probably what you call the "minimum service" in terms of response. I regard this decision to delete this international train as a very bad signal, a deplorable decision. Over the years, the quality of the international offer has been questioned on this line. The journey time has been extended. An incredibly long waiting period was introduced at the Brussels-Luxembourg train station for travellers who took the train at other Brussels stations and continued to Namur, Luxembourg or Strasbourg. The catering service has been abolished. This is a bit the chronicle of the announced abolition of this Vauban train. You are announcing alternatives that are not really in terms of quality of service. Like L'Arlésienne, you talk about ongoing discussions about new investments and their allocation. And despite the financing of SNCB by the Belgian State, you cannot provide Parliament with information on the number of travellers, because it would be a "business secret". I find it very difficult to hear about "business secret" when it comes to a public service. For me, this is a new symptom of disinvestment in our rail transport. In terms of rail transport, as in other matters, there is a logic of supply and demand. The quality of the supply generates the quantity of demand. By reducing the quality of the offer, you are doing exactly the opposite, which I regret, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u75	Thank you, Mr Gilkinet. I hear all the questions and answers on a number of committees. Parliamentarians obviously have the right to ask questions. But when a question has already been asked twice before, I would suggest that the minister refer to the answers already given. We have question sessions every two weeks, with 80 or 100 questions. I will therefore ask everyone to be attentive in this regard. I will never blame the minister for referring, without new elements, to answers that have already been given. This committee must deal with hundreds of issues. As for, for example, tariffs, if there were no 25 questions, there was not one. The minister had the courage to respond to all of them, which would not have been my case. So be careful to join your questions with each other. I'm not targeting you specifically, Mr. Gilkinet. This is a general remark, which I make in the interests of effective control of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u76	Madam President, I would like to pay attention to what you have just mentioned. You know that we are an effective member of certain committees. I do not miss a question that is asked in the Committee on Finance or Social Affairs. However, I am less assiduous in the Committee on Infrastructure. That is why I have let this debate escape without joining. However, this is an important question that I wanted to ask, and I thank you for allowing me to do so. As you say, the quality of parliamentary control is essential, especially in the times we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u77	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the communication of SNCB following the tragic attacks of 22 March, when our country was hit by a cowardly terrorist attack. At the time of the attacks in Brussels many commuters had already arrived in Brussels and of course they had to return home later in the day, but because of the events public transport was temporarily closed. The commuters needed clear communication to know if and how they could get home by train. SNCB's website was difficult to reach that day for a long time and many commuters were in uncertainty throughout this period. At the same time, the websites of STIB and De Lijn worked smoothly. At times of crisis like this, I think it is important that an organisation and its communication are on the verge of success. It was undoubtedly an emergency, but such an important service as public transport must be prepared for this, at least in terms of communication to passengers via the website and so on. It was striking that the frequently used alternative route planner of Google Maps provided up-to-date information on the STIB modes that may or may not have been driving. According to that route planner, however, all SNCB's trains were operated. So there was no mention that the train traffic stopped. This is, of course, incorrect and a direct consequence of the fact that SNCB does not release open data in real time. These events are an appropriate test of practice with which SNCB must and can evaluate its crisis communication. How did SNCB communicate about shutting down its services to its passengers? What explains that the SNCB website was difficult to access and that of the regional transport companies was not? What steps will SNCB take to improve this in the future? Why does SNCB not provide real-time open data to third parties, such as Google Maps? Will SNCB evaluate its crisis communication of 22 March?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u78	In a crisis situation, SNCB shall put in place an emergency and intervention plan to manage the situation at operational level. Based on the decisions taken in the context of the operational management of the crisis, information is provided to the different communication channels for travellers. One must be aware that, in crisis situations of this nature, it is not possible to give a clear picture of the situation from the start of the crisis, because everything is constantly evolving. On 22 March the (...) of a very large number of trains had to be revised in real time. In a first phase, the decisions contained a limitation of train traffic to Brussels, allowing certain trains to continue to operate and stop at the stations where the evacuation was taking place, in order to help clear the stations concerned. In a second phase several alternative transport plans were developed pending instructions from the Crisis Centre. As soon as the instructions were received, the train plan could be communicated and implemented by the end of the day, in particular for the evening pits. In particular, as regards communication to passengers during the day of 22 March, several communication actions were carried out, including through the website. The information on the crisis page and the message of malfunction were updated continuously on 22 March until 23:45. In addition, actions were carried out on board the trains and in the stations via the screens, through the sound systems and by the station staff, by means of press releases, via Belga and through the social media. On 22 March, a first general tweet was placed at 8:17 to report that the train to Zaventem-Luchthaven station had been interrupted. At 10:19, customers were informed via a general tweet that the Brussels stations were closed. At 10 a.m.43, SNCB placed a general tweet, which recommended not to go to Brussels according to the instruction of the Federal Crisis Centre. The social media team has answered a question every 22 seconds on average in order to inform customers as best they can. On board the trains, the train escorts informed passengers on the trains by means of additional messages about the closure of the Brussels stations. In all stations it was announced via the audio systems, the screens and also live via the station staff that the Brussels stations were closed. The travellers were discouraged to travel to Brussels. In all major stations additional information desks were created by station staff to inform passengers. Via press releases or Belga: at 10 a.m.34, SNCB sent a message to the press, in which she took over the instruction of the Federal Crisis Centre, in which the population was asked to avoid any movement to Brussels. At 11 a.m. 50 and 12 a.m. 50, SNCB made a state of play for the press about the situation on the network in Flanders and Wallonia. During the day of 22 March, the SNCB website was visited very busy, i.e. around 300 000 times compared to 105 000 visits, a week before that on Tuesday. Although the website has not always been easily accessible in the course of the day, the website has never failed. In concrete terms, this means that the user may have had to update the web page once or twice before getting to the website. In the short term, SNCB will review the architecture of its IT network, together with the supplier Infrabel, in order to avoid such consequences in the future. In the longer term, SNCB is working on a project to renew its website. SNCB envisages the provision of real-time timetable data in the near future. However, it is still waiting for the final specifications in the draft law and the corresponding Royal Decrees. As with any crisis or incident with a severe impact on passengers and punctuality, SNCB organises experience feedback meetings at different levels, in order to examine inter alia whether the planned crisis procedures have been applied and to identify actions that should be repeated or best avoided in subsequent crises. I have written to both companies so that they will inform me as soon as possible, among other things, of the elements arising from this exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear and detailed reply. I am pleased that SNCB is considering making the data available in real time. The communication via Twitter, via Belga or in the stations was very good. However, communication on Google Maps said something different than what was the case in reality; that should be avoided. I'm glad you're doing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u80	Question No 10430 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau will be dealt with in the Committee on the Economy. Ms. Lahaye-Battheu is not present to ask her questions Nos. 10439, 10440 and 10441. Mrs Pas, Mr Yüksel and Mrs Lalieux are also not present for inquiry No 138 and questions Nos 10561 and 10651.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u81	Madam Secretary, this is a question about terrorists among railway workers. After the November 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, I already asked you a few questions about possible radicalisation among railway staff. Earlier it appeared that STIB was fired by an individual because of his radical ideas. A few weeks ago, we also learned that Infrabel fired one of her employees because of suspicious ties to a convicted terrorist. So I think we can say that there is a real danger. Despite the selection procedure with a jury interview and a code of conduct, the person in question was recruited. The person worked in Schaerbeek and had been on sick leave for some time. According to newspaper articles, his colleagues called the alarm and informed the supervisor. They've been asking for his resignation for a while. In response to previous questions, you said in this committee that you are working on screenings for certain professions, in particular professions with a safety function. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What were the comments in the jury report on the person concerned? How were his evaluations? Were there any complaints or incidents with that person before? Where do you stand on starting the screenings for railway staff? What security functions do you want to screen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u82	Mr President, for deontological reasons, personal data relating to selection procedures shall not be disclosed to third parties unless this is required by law. The person in question's file does not contain any complaint or incident. In order to be recruited on the railways, candidates should not have a legal history. At present, only SNCB's surveillance and security agents are subject to more thorough screening, as regulated by the Law of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security. In the current context, this is not enough. Both SNCB and myself wish to implement the screening as soon as possible, as provided for by the law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances. On my question, more than a year ago, the first meetings were held with a view to establishing an efficient screening system for the staff of the Belgian railways, such as in the aviation sector. The objective pursued was and remains more than ever the prevention of terrorist attacks. As a legal basis for screening, the FPS Mobility and Transport identified the law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. Following several meetings and on the advice of the FPS Mobility and Transport, Infrabel and SNCB, it was agreed with the national safety authority, which is examining the possibility to do so, that the measures may also cover personnel in contact with critical infrastructure. In this context, the Royal Decree implementing Articles 13, 24 and 25 of the Act of 1 July 2011 on the security and protection of critical infrastructures for the Transport, Rail transport sub-sector was recently published. Today, a working group, led by the national safety authority, is examining the screening modalities, including consideration of the settlement of the existing screening and any change in the time span between two screenings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you're paying attention to that and that you're working on it. I think we all know by now that these people can radicalise in a very short time. It therefore seems important to me that internal screenings or alarm procedures are in place in order to signal the radicalisation of staff to the superiors as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u84	Mr President, Minister, this is a question about the cameras in train stations. We have already debated this after the foiled attack on the Thalys. Camera monitoring is an important tool for safety in and around stations. I have already asked a written question on this. Then you replied that in September, the Railway Police received direct access to the CCTV footage. There were also negotiations with the Interior regarding the camera law and giving direct access to the camera footage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u85	It would improve security if the local police also had direct access to the camera images in and around stations. There is now a procedure whereby the police and/or the judiciary may request the camera footage of SNCB, but this request for camera footage must be carried out smoothly and without hindrance when this is necessary in the context of a judicial investigation. The possible administrative burden of obtaining these images is an obstacle to a judicial investigation. I believe that this should be avoided at all times. I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. Do you intend to grant local police real-time access to SNCB's camera footage? Can you describe the procedure that police and justice now have to go through to get the camera footage? How much time does this procedure usually take? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u86	Madam President, the camera law indeed provides that police services can have direct and free real-time access to the images of the four public transport companies. As far as SNCB is concerned, the Federal Railway Police and certain police areas already have such access. Moreover, on 3 March, the Court adopted a legislative amendment requiring that the extent of such access should be determined by royal decree, in particular as regards responsibility, security, accessibility and mutual data exchange. The technical and practical arrangements will be laid down in a protocol of agreement between the police and the public transport company concerned. I invite my colleague from the Interior to speak to him on this dossier, in order to take this decision as soon as possible, in consultation with the public transport companies. The main task is to be able to transfer the images on a large scale without compromising the operation of the transport company's camera network. This is currently being technically analysed by SNCB. The requests for images from the police services are not only numerous, they often ask for many hours of viewing. For example, the Brussels-Zuid station has about 350 security cameras. Therefore, SNCB has installed a specialised back office in its Security Operations Center. Moreover, camera surveillance must comply with strict privacy conditions and, as manager of the processing of the images, SNCB's Corporate Security Services are obliged to take certain precautions. For all these reasons, SNCB set up a procedure for applying for images several years ago. It was discussed at the time with representatives of the police and the FPS Interior. SNCB has no knowledge of police complaints about this procedure. This reconciles privacy with efficiency and differs according to the urgency. Urgent requests are dealt with within twenty-four hours and even within a shorter period when police officers go on the scene to view the footage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u87	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u88	Madam Secretary, the cleanliness of the Leuven station leaves something to be desired. A lot of media reports have been published about that. The poorly maintained train station gives strong criticism not only from travellers, but also from the city administration. The station is for many visitors the lobby of the city. The platform roof cost EUR 15 million and should be a gem of contemporary architecture. Unfortunately, reality is different. The infrastructure has been neglected, even to the extent that decay has entered. For example, the glass canopy is in a scandalously dirty state. In certain places one can no longer see through the black google and here and there missing glass plates. On track 1 there is still a preliminary construction in wood and plastic sheets. The other infrastructure is also dirty or in need of renewal. For example, some lamps are defective or they hang gunshots and skews. The escalators are completely obsolete and fail regularly. In short, the sight is anything but beautiful. In other countries, buildings such as these, which nevertheless have some modern architectural value, are nurtured and elevated to the status of tourist attraction. In our country it is the world upside down and this architectural masterpiece threatens to fall prey to decay due to a lack of structural maintenance. My questions to you are therefore the following, Madam Secretary. What is your view on the situation of the station roofing and the remote infrastructure of the Leuven station? Why hasn't a maintenance plan ever been drawn up? Are you prepared to draw up a systematic maintenance plan so that the accommodation is cleaned at regular intervals and a neglect does not repeat itself in the future? Are you prepared to take the necessary steps to correct this situation quickly? If so, what steps will you take and within what time limit? Are you also prepared to make an immediate budget available for this? If so, when and how much budget is it? Finally, what time will the maintenance of the station roof start?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u89	Mrs Van Hoof, there is a call for tenders for the construction of platform hardening on platforms 1A, B, C, 1D and 2, 3. The tender also provides for the replacement of the wooden structure above the escalator and the staircase in the direction of Brussels. The construction is replaced by a façade construction made of steel and glass. At the moment there are also work to cover the old signal house. The old metal canopy and the preliminary construction of wood and corrugated sheets are broken down and replaced. The provisional construction on the passerelle is also replaced. These works are in progress. The old escalators along the side of Tienen are regularly maintained and a replacement is not at issue. If a revision proves necessary, SNCB will carry it out. A thorough renewal of the underpass on the side of Tienen is not on the agenda. The existing halogen lighting will be replaced by LED lighting this year and this specifications has recently been awarded. As regards cleaning the canopies and replacing certain luminaires, SNCB cannot organise this without removing the tracks and/or removing the overhead lines. It is up to SNCB to make a request to that effect to Infrabel. SNCB also informs me that the cleaning of the canopies is contained in an ongoing window contract with ISS. In other words, this cleaning has already been tendered and awarded. The maintenance to the lighting was scheduled for spring 2017. SNCB will advance this interview and it is now scheduled for September 2016. The budgets for the above mentioned works are planned. The budgets for cleaning the canopies are also planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u90	I would like to thank the Minister for her specific answer and I am glad that certain tenders have been made and support frameworks are being awarded. I therefore hope that the result will soon become visible in the station of Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u91	Madam Minister, last year it was announced that the FPS Mobility would launch a pilot project with a new database for leasing cars. That database would indicate which company rents a particular leasing car and who is its permanent driver. This would allow fines to be sent directly to the offender, which would reduce the administrative burden on leasing companies. This is not without importance, because today drivers of leasing cars can sometimes go free if they refuse to pay their fine. The minutes of the determination are usually sent to the leasing company and not to the offender, which means that it only has the value of a CV of information. The problem is not small. In 2014, the police would have written 3,34 million speeding tickets, of which 836 000, or 25%, fell into the bus of leasing companies, while leasing cars account for only 15% of all cars on our roads. Of course, leasing cars travel more kilometres than an average family car. I have the following questions in this connection. First, can you outline the evolution in the number of speeding tickets since 2012? Secondly, how is the FPS Mobility pilot project going? Can an initial evaluation be made? Thirdly, is it appropriate, in your view, to amend legislation, pending a single optimal database, so that fines first sent to leasing companies would not lose their probative value?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u92	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I will give you the figures in a attached document. For 2015, only the data for the first six months are available. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only vehicles registered in the name of a natural person and vehicles registered in the name of a legal person can be distinguished. In the latter case, it is not possible to determine the proportion of the number of leasing cars. The Royal Decree of 8 July 2013 implementing the Law of 19 May 2010 establishing the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles provides that the Belgian Federation of Vehicle Tenants collects the identification data of the usual drivers of a vehicle that is the subject of a rental contract concluded with one of its members. These identification data are inserted into a database by the non-profit association Renta, which unites the aforementioned federation. This database is an integral part of the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles and is therefore not a pilot project. It was taken into production in the course of September 2015. At present, there are a dozen leasing companies that provide data. However, leasing companies are not obliged to provide the identification details of the usual driver. However, we are counting on the number of participating companies to increase in the future. According to the law, the Directorate-General for Road Transport and Road Safety of the Federal Public Service Mobility and Transport is responsible for the data, but in view of the intended finality of the data, it is not the end user. It is primarily the police who are asking to know the usual driver of a leased vehicle. It is therefore appropriate that it should carry out an evaluation as an end user. An amendment to the legislation is not really urgent, as the caselaw shows that a report which no longer has any particular evidentiary value due to the exceeding of the time limit can still be taken into account by the court. It is for the court to assess whether, on the basis of the information contained in the minutes, there is sufficient certainty as to whether there is an infringement. In practice, convictions are therefore the general rule. Nevertheless, it is considered together with the Justice Department how it can be avoided that a report which is not sent directly to a physical person/perpetrator of the offence can still retain its special probative force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u94	Madam Minister, I have already put a number of questions, both to you and to the Minister of Justice, about the investigations that may be imposed on the judges. From this I can conclude that the judges in this country, on average, pronounce 370 times a day a decline in the right to direct. These convictions may be subject to a number of conditions, such as the taking of theoretical or practical remedial examinations. Medical or psychological recovery studies may also be imposed as a condition for obtaining the driving licence after the end of the driving ban. The answers I have received to my questions show that an average of 30 medical examinations and 50 psychological examinations are imposed on a daily basis. Such recovery investigations are carried out by so-called decay institutions which should be recognised. A medical examination costs up to 92 euros and a psychological examination costs up to 311 euros. The institutions carry out these investigations, but so far there is no quality standard. However, the Belgian Road Safety Institute (BIVV) has provided for this. It would be good to consider that. Last year, the BIVV, which compared the procedure of recovery investigations in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria, Spain and Switzerland with the investigations in this country, is also a requesting party to monitor the quality of the investigations. Except in France, the authorities control the procedure in all the countries examined. The study carried out by the BIVV shows that 70% of persons are declared fit after the examinations, 22% suitable under certain conditions and 8% unsuitable. If the person in question receives his driving licence for a certain period of time, the insolvency institution shall decide at the end whether to undergo further examinations. I think it is dangerous to leave that judgment to the institution. The judge would be better off deciding that. Do you intend to introduce a quality standard in this country, knowing that the number of recovery investigations will only increase because of the stricter rules of recidivism that came into force on 1 January last year? If so, what initiative are you planning? If not, what are your considerations? Do you consider that, if the person in question receives his driving licence for a certain period of time, the court should be able to decide on whether to undergo further investigations instead of the insolvency institution after the expiry date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u95	The institutions responsible for medical and psychological examinations must comply with the conditions of recognition laid down in the Royal Decree of 8 March 2006 amending the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences. In order to be recognised by the FPS, the institutions must submit a dossier consisting of the substantive procedure concerning the investigations and the multidisciplinary consultation between doctors and psychologists, the organisation of the investigations, the integral quality care and a financial plan. These criteria are in line with the quality standards. In addition, the recognition of doctors and psychologists is subject to strict rules. The CVs of doctors and psychologists are always screened in advance by the FPS Mobility and Transport for approval. Doctors and psychologists must have proven expertise. The doctors have at least three years' professional experience and are registered with the Order of Doctors, the psychologists have at least three years' professional experience in psychodiagnosis and must be registered with the Psychologists' Committee, and the assistants in psychology must demonstrate at least six years' professional experience and be led by the psychologist. Finally, the content and method of the investigation are described in Annex 14 of the above mentioned Royal Decree. In the report of the doctors and psychologists there must be a clear answer as to why they have reached a certain decision. The conditions for obtaining recognition as mentioned above are already strict enough to ensure the quality of the examinations. As far as I know, there has never been a question from the FPS Justice Department or the prosecutors to change the procedure. The doctors and psychologists are supposed to investigate whether someone is fit to drive or not. As stated in the Royal Decree, the doctors and psychologists make a decision on fitness to drive after consultation: suitable, suitable under certain conditions or unsuitable. In addition, alcohol and/or drug use is the main reason why a person is being imposed a decline in the right to direct. The doctors and psychologists are the experts in this matter. Finally, the Royal Decree already provides for an appeal procedure against an institution's decision. Those candidates who, in two successive medical or psychological examinations at the same establishment, were found unfit or who contest the conditions of the restrictions added to the certificate of suitability, shall, upon request, undergo the same examinations in another institution designated by the FPS Mobility and Transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u96	Madam Secretary, you believe that there are sufficient guarantees of quality. I maintain that it would be useful to examine whether, if one is unfit or is considered appropriate under certain conditions, it would not be better to refer the case back to court instead of following the current procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u97	This question concerns the new transport plan to enter into force in December 2017. Bruges is one of the most important tourist centres in our country. Every hour on weekdays there is a direct connection between Bruges and Brussels-National Airport. That is not the case at the weekend. Then there are only two trains per hour that depart from Brussels in 15 minutes. If you miss one of those trains, you have to wait 45 minutes. In Bruges, among other things, the hotel and tourism sector is asking for a direct connection, even on weekends. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the status of the transport plan? In particular, what is your position on the requested direct connection between Bruges and Brussels Airport during the weekend?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u98	For the preparation of the transport plan of December 2017, a retroplan was drawn up, which includes a number of meetings with stakeholders. So far, two sessions have taken place with the various stakeholders. Another one is scheduled for the summer. SNCB is studying a number of adjustments based on its own findings and feedback from its customers, social and political bodies and other stakeholders. The proposed adjustments will be assessed in terms of potential side effects and technical and financial feasibility. In drawing up the current transport plan, SNCB sought a balance between wishes and means. This balance led to a number of wishes not being realised. Indeed, there is only one direct connection between Bruges and the airport during the weekends and on public holidays. With a route via Kortrijk and Denderleeuw this connection is comfortable but not very performant. Travelers from Bruges who opt for a shorter travel time can use the IC offer from Bruges and switch to Ghent or Brussels-Zuid. The introduction of an additional direct link during the weekend will be weighed against other proposals on the basis of the criteria cited above. In any case, I took the initiative to ask SNCB to organise a meeting with the mayor of each municipality before the summer of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u99	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply and, above all, for the initiative to meet local leaders before the summer, so that they can be involved in the decision-making process on the new transport plan in good time and not after everything has been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u100	The interplay of Mrs Pas has been withdrawn. She won't be there next week either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u101	Madam Secretary, on 22 March 2016, our country was hit by two terrorist attacks. After that there was a lot to do about the fact that there were still metro trains in Brussels. A few days ago, the French-speaking socialist trade union said that not only the Brussels metro but also trains continued to run too long. Let me give you some examples. Train 3109 to Antwerp has left Brussels-South at 09:57 and arrived in Brussels-Central at 10:00. The international train 9216 from Amsterdam arrived in Brussels-North at 10:18 p.m. with 4 minutes delay. That is, of course, very remarkable. In the United Committees for the Interior and for External Relations shortly after the attacks, the Minister for the Interior gave a chronological overview of the issues. If I have noted correctly, at 08:33, half an hour after the attacks at the airport, the threat level in our country was raised to 4. At 08:50, the Crisis Centre and the OCAD decided to close the metro. These two examples indicate that trains continued to run normally in Brussels. That's worrying, isn't it? That's why I have the following questions. Can you give us a time table of the evacuation of the Brussels train stations? When and by whom was it decided to evacuate the Brussels stations? What steps were then taken and by whom? When was the evacuation of the stations started and when was this completed? When and by whom was it decided to release the stations again? What steps were taken and by whom? The most important question is how it is possible that trains continued to run in Brussels at a time that had already been decided to stop rail and metro traffic. What is the evaluation of SNCB and Infrabel with regard to this situation and the evacuation? What lessons are learned from this? How do you evaluate the evacuation and are any adjustments envisaged in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u102	Mr President, my question has nothing to do with the attacks. I therefore do not see why it has been included in this debate and I do not know whether it should remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u103	As the answer will be common, I invite you to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u104	Minister, even though my question begins with the March 22 attacks, it is completely unrelated to it. However, these attacks require all political leaders to take all measures to ensure the safety of the population. In consultation with your colleague from the Interior, your responsibility is in particular to restore and strengthen security at Brussels-National airport. At the Committee on Infrastructure on 2 March, I asked you about the security deficiencies reported by the trade unions. Before that, that is to say, at the end of last year, I had asked a question about the shortcomings reported by the aviation inspectors in terms of airport safety. I would like to ask you again about the measures you are putting in place to ensure the highest possible level of security at the national airport. Minister, what action have you taken since the March 22 attacks? What share of the €400 million set aside by the government for security will be invested to strengthen the work of airport security inspectors and to ensure security at Brussels-National airport? What consultations have been held with trade unions since 22 March to ensure security in Brussels-National? In an article in the newspaper L'Echo dated 1 April 2016, a series of breaches of security were denounced. I interviewed you in this regard on 2 March. In particular, Echo refers to searches of inefficient travellers, not enough explosive detection dogs, holes in fences, etc. Can you tell me whether DGTA has investigated these deficiencies and whether corrective measures have been taken? I insist once again: I am not talking about the attacks, but about the flaws that had been highlighted before them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March our country was hit in its heart, in the morning rush hour, the departure hall of the Brussels airport and a subway train to the Maelbeek station were hit by terrorist bomb attacks to create chaos in the heart of Brussels. More than 30 people lost their lives and hundreds of people were injured to varying degrees. The rescue forces immediately mobilized to visit the scene of the attacks and to rescue the wounded who had been transported to more than 50 hospital centres for treatment. Since that day, the emotion remains alive to the thoughts of the victims and their families, but also to the thoughts of those who will forever keep the moral and physical marks of this black day. For every citizen of our country, there is now one before and one after 22 March. Before answering the questions asked, I would first like to pay tribute to the dozens of innocent victims, to those who have been signed for life, to the emergency services, to the police, to the army, to the staff of Brussels Airport and to the companies established there and to those who have immediately provided the first aid to their fellow citizens. The cowardly attacks were directed against our values and standards and they were carried out in places we all use. They were aimed at public transport and, as such, it makes sense for us to ask ourselves all the questions as to how, in the future, in this reality after 22 March, we will live with this threat. Firstly, as Minister for Mobility, I am not the Minister responsible for the aviation police. Replying to a large part of the complaints of the police union of the aviation police and their open letter do not fall within my competence. I will not be able to respond to that during my further reply. Having said that, I do not wish to shirk my responsibilities. However, I am responsible for aviation security policy and for this I work closely with all the departments concerned, including the airport police. Secondly, I can tell you that there is already an answer to your written question No. 1048 with regard to the issuing of airport badges, to which you refer in your introduction to this interplay. Without prejudging my answers, I can tell you that the system of screening and associated the system of issuing airport badges is increasingly being optimised. That's how I get my answer about the badges. A distinction should be made between personnel who have access to the airside and personnel who do not have access to it. The staff from the first group is subject to a background check. The authorities involved in this investigation shall consult the federal police, the ADIV, the State Security Office, each of their own databases for this purpose. Such a survey is valid for five years in Belgium, as imposed by European legislation. Any reasonable doubt by the employer, the airport or one of the departments concerned in the background investigation shall be re-examined and the badge may be withdrawn. The background investigation by the National Security Authority is the first screening in recruitment. In addition, the staff is subject to a security investigation at every transition from airside to landside. Since the attacks of 22 March 2016, in addition to the aviation security measures already in place and imposed at European level, I have ordered, within the framework of my aviation security powers, the following additional measures. - An increase in the percentage of explosive trace detection and/or manual searches of passengers and their hand luggage by at least 30% at the level of normal screening, just before entering the provisional structure. - The sending of instructions to all Belgian airports concerning the limited issuance of visitor badges, under much stricter conditions. - Access to a restricted access area for security reasons, security zone and critical security zone is permitted if the following conditions are met: the person is accompanied on a continuous basis and permanent support is provided only by an airport security staff member, who is the responsible entity, or a security subcontractor. Following a consultation between the union representatives of the airport inspections and the DGTA two weeks ago, I received a joint letter from the CGSP and the CGSLB in which they shared all their comments on the security policy carried out and the operation of their services and their requirements for the future. Their future status is also part of the discussions led by my colleague from the Interior on the creation of a supervisory and protective department within the Federal Police. In parallel, since I launched a working group in September 2015 including DGTA, trade union organisations and LAC, my firm has been working to find a solution to their status since police reform in 2001. This solution could revolve around three axes: the transfer to the DGTA, the transfer to the federal police, the status quo while remaining with LAC. All these options are on the table and negotiations are under way. I would also point out that the aviation security policy, including that carried out at Brussels airport, is subject to inspections and audits carried out by the European Commission and ICAO (the International Civil Aviation Organisation). These inspections show that we are in full compliance with the internationally imposed rules and standards. The DGTA itself therefore exercises control over the measures imposed and for this quality control DGTA is also under the control of the European Commission. To date, the European Commission has always attested to the quality of the work carried out by DGTA, in particular by aviation inspectors. An additional inspector has been provided for in the Personnel Plan 2015 and the Royal Decree on the terms of reference of aviation inspectors has been adapted to provide more flexibility in the granting of this mandate. As far as the stations are concerned, I shall confine myself to factual data. I do not wish to anticipate the work that can be done by the committee of inquiry. I confirm that I have ordered SNCB and Infrabel, on instructions from the Crisis Centre, in which I participated, to stop rail traffic within the North-Midi junction within the hour after the attacks. We are talking about the stations in Brussels-Midi, Brussels-North, Brussels-Central, Brussels-Schuman, Brussels-Luxembourg and Brussels Airport. The Zaventem-Village station remained operational in order to evacuate all passengers. The precise conduct of operations by SNCB and Infrabel is still being finalized. I have already given some details to your colleague, Mrs Inez De Coninck. I would therefore ask you to refer to it with regard to the conduct of this day of March 22, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u106	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but your answer to my questions was very brief. I understand, of course, that you note that this is also the subject of the committee of inquiry which is due to start shortly. I have given you two examples of trains still running. I assume the data is correct, as the train numbers were also given. It is remarkable, therefore, that I have here the time data that the metro will be closed at 08:50, but that trains still run one hour after that decision on the Brussels North-South axis. That fact must be properly investigated. We must also react quickly. I hope that we will never again be faced with such matters in the future. However, we must be prepared. We need to react quickly. There must also be a unit of command. It is unacceptable, should that indeed have happened for the subway and the trains. So we need to follow that up. I also assume that SNCB and Infrabel will investigate these matters themselves and draw conclusions from them. We will also question you here in committee, irrespective of the committee of inquiry, on this issue. The safety of trains and our citizens must not be allowed to make concessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u107	Thank you, Madam Minister. One fundamental thing that will have to be dealt with very quickly is the status of airport inspectors. I sincerely believe that these should no longer be dependent on LAC. They have different objectives: on the one hand, safety objectives; on the other, commercial objectives. As the appropriate minister with Mr Jambon, you really need to plead for them to be subject either to the DGTA or to police status. It is a body that needs to be strengthened and funded. It takes money for the security of the airport that was directly targeted. On the other hand, apart from the staff, I think we need to do a global audit of the entire airport site. It would still be possible to enter by car, passing some barriers behind the airport. The territory of the airport is obviously huge and if, today, there are still loopholes in the enclosure, it must be determined immediately and immediately release the budget in order to carry out the necessary work urgently. You have to take a share of the $400 million for security. This is essential to the image of the airport. It should not be undermined again by statements, reports or photos in the press of shortcomings that may still exist. Because it is also about the economy of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u108	Minister, after the low cost in aviation, here is the low cost in rail transport. While it was thought that the distinction concerned the first and second classes, the Thalys now invented a third class offering an advantageous fare for a somewhat braided comfort on a Brussels-Paris journey of just over two hours. Have you read this new Thalys tariff policy? What do you think? How many more passengers are expected for a Brussels-Paris trip thanks to these new low cost fares? Is the low cost rate not likely to raise the standard ticket price? What are the comfort conditions of the low cost fare? Why is the trip likely to be longer at low cost? Will different trains be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u109	Dear colleague, I welcome this new Thalys offer in a liberalised and increasingly competitive market. This new offer meets a demand for a fast, durable and low-cost travel solution for all customers. The new low cost Easy train will allow customers to reach Brussels and Paris from 19 euros. This train meets the expectations of customers who wish to travel otherwise. It is a new experience of train travel in favour of sustainable mobility combined with an advantageous fare offer. Its distribution is only online. Although it is a low cost service, its quality is guaranteed. As regards the low cost fare and the standard ticket price, these are two separate and independent offers. All conditions (features, comfort, frequency, options...) are available at www.easy.com. There are several levels of comfort on which the price paid by the traveller will depend: unsecured seat, seating positions depending on availability after departure, side supports and high tables available, numbered seats, standard seats, XL standard, optimal seating comfort, seats specifically designed for people with reduced mobility. With regard to the length of the journey, in order to reduce operating costs, the low cost train uses conventional infrastructure in France instead of the high-speed line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u110	Thank you for this complete answer. Neither do I have any unfavorable opinions about this low cost offer. If this tariff has been set, it will respond to a request. You guarantee us quality service with options, the environmental side is also taken into account; therefore, I think we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u111	Joined Questions No 10363 by Mr Benoît Hellings and No 10636 by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Question No 10664 by Mrs Karine Lalieux are postponed. Question No 10662 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u112	Madam Minister, it has been some time since the Fyra dossier was on the agenda here, but last week there were reports from the Netherlands, where a draft cabinet response would have been leaked in the press. They talked about the alternatives that would be introduced over the years after the abolition of the former Fyra link. There was a bit of a stir in the Netherlands about that. That reminded me that in our country we had a commitment from SNCB, together with the Dutch Railways. The Benelux train would be reinserted when the Fyra was taken out of service. The Benelux train was put in as an emergency solution via the classic line 12 via Roosendaal between Brussels and Amsterdam. The commitment was that the Benelux train would start to run from December 2016 via the high-speed line and thus through the station Noorderkempen and the station Breda. I have already asked you a question about timing here, because we heard some rumours and doubts about the feasibility of the approval procedure for the safety system of locomotives and so on. Then you explicitly stated that everything was still on schedule and that the timing of December 2016 would be met. I understood then that April would be about the deadline on which it should be clear when everything would be all right. Madam Minister, that is why I come back to you with my question on the state of play. On the one hand, there is the status of the leaked Dutch document. In the Netherlands they talk about alternatives to the Fyra trains from 2018. It is not quite clear to me what that means. On the other hand, there are the commitments that have been expressed here in Belgium to take the Benelux train on high-speed line 4 from December 2016. What's the status? Will the timing be met? If that is not the case, when will they be driven via HSL 4? What are the consequences for the operation of the station Noorderkempen? This will, of course, have an impact on the operation and service at that station. There will be a train every hour, even at night later than is the case today. Of course, the travellers from the region are very much looking forward to that perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u113	My dear colleague, according to the information received by SNCB from the NS, it would be a leak concerning the draft cabinet response to the Dutch Parliamentary Committee Fyra. The tripartite cooperation agreements between SNCB, the NS and the Dutch State of 2013 determine the rail pattern of the IC train between Brussels and Amsterdam, even from the time it runs over the high-speed line. The maintenance of the December 2016 date depends on two technical elements: firstly, the timely availability of the ETCS software for the Bombardier locomotives and, secondly, the timely adaptation of the NS carriages. For both programmes, every effort is made to maintain planning. To date, I have not been formally informed of a decision to postpone the transition to L 4, but I do not wish to conceal to Parliament that, according to the information provided by SNCB, this planning is highly critical and that a delay of a few months is certainly possible. I would like to remind you that the planned service from Eurostar to Amsterdam was postponed by nine months due to the unavailability of the ETCS software.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic381x.u114	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I find it very surprising that as a minister you will not receive formally the answer that will be communicated on Friday, namely that there will be a delay until April 2017. That surprises me, and I regret that, too. I think that, knowing that this four-month delay will probably be communicated on Friday, we should start looking today for an additional offer between Noorderkempen and Antwerp, so that the promised service for the Noorderkempen station can be received at least partially as of December 2016, for example with a service offer from Noorderkempen in the evening.
