ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u1	Madam Minister, Belgium and Luxembourg signed on 4 July a bilateral agreement allowing the management and final disposal of large-scale radioactive waste in Belgium. Minister, what are the terms of the agreement with Luxembourg? What types of waste are involved? What quantities are envisaged by this agreement? What are the origins of this waste? Finally, what is the method of funding? Who pays for management and storage costs and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u2	Mr President, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg did not have a facility for the management of its industrial and medical radioactive waste and in the 1990s requested the services of Belgium. It's been a few years. This demand led in 1990 to an agreement for the treatment in Belgium of radioactive waste in the Grand Duchy. From 1995 to 2010, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg transferred 3.7 m3 of unpackaged radioactive waste to Belgium. These are smoke detectors and ion lightning detectors, as well as radioactive sources, mainly from hospitals and laboratories. In 2014, 0.9 m3 of unpackaged waste was transferred. In order to take account of the new context imposed by the European Directive 2011/70/Euratom, our two governments agreed in 2015 to prepare an intergovernmental agreement setting out the technical and financial framework for the management and storage of Luxembourg's radioactive waste in the territory of Belgium. On 16 November 2015, a proposal for an intergovernmental agreement on radioactive waste was forwarded by the Energy DG of the SPF Economy and Energy to the Minister of Health, Radiation Protection Department of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This agreement can be summarized as follows: import of a limited quantity of Luxembourg radioactive waste over a limited period of time with a view to their final storage on Belgian territory, maximum 30 m3 after packaging in total over 30 years. Luxembourg's packaged radioactive waste will be stored in Belgium until it is finally stored in accordance with the Belgian regulations in force. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg undertakes to pay all present and future fees for the long-term management of Luxembourg's radioactive waste. Belgium has the right to unilaterally refuse any waste from Luxembourg which it could not manage safely on its territory. A clause is provided to cover Luxembourg waste from the period 1995-2010 already present on Belgian territory. The operational arrangements for these shipments of waste will be governed by a contract between ONDRAF and the competent Luxembourg administration, which in this case is considered to be a producer of Belgian waste in all respects, in strict compliance with the framework laid down by this intergovernmental agreement. According to the available information, the Luxembourg waste that will be transferred in the future should be similar to those already transferred. The Luxembourg authority responsible for assessing the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment submitted an opinion in January 2016. It is clear from that opinion that this Agreement is not likely to generate significant environmental impacts and that there is therefore no need for an effective report and for it to be submitted to the public consultation in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In Belgium, although the adoption of such an intergovernmental agreement is not part of the plans and programmes listed in Article 6(1)(1) of the Act, Deputy Prime Minister Peeters and I have sought the opinion of the SEA Opinion Committee, which, in June 2016, considered that the current draft agreement between Belgium and Luxembourg on the final storage of Luxembourg's radioactive waste on Belgian territory should not be the subject of a strategic environmental impact assessment. I had already had the opportunity to talk to you about it before. The agreement was signed on 4 July 2016 at the Gaichel meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the type of waste concerned is concerned, are they those classified as low radioactive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u4	I'll ask my technician the question. I intuitively want to say that this is category A, but I'm going to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u5	I'd appreciate it if you could tell me later. Even if they are low-level radioactive, there is a need to pay close attention to all the implications for the context in which they are stored, the duration and the impact on public health and the environment. One of the major problems with nuclear power is that it produces waste from one radioactivity that is different from one waste to another. This is one of the major problems of nuclear power; it leaves traces for many future generations and, sometimes for the most radioactive waste, for very long periods of time. This is one of the major problems that we need to pay close attention to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u6	Question No 12822 by Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u7	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, while perhaps trying to update the questions a little in the sense that they were tabled in June and when we are in September. The CREG has just published or published in the first half of the year its note on the Elia study on needs for 2017-2027. As regards the need for adequacy, the CREG considers that and, I quote: "if the duration of use of certain volumes is only a few hundred hours a year, or even less, it is important that the fixed operational costs of this capacity are very low, so that financial losses remain limited when capacity is not needed. For example, demand management and open-cycle gas plants, whether decentralized or not, appear to be more appropriate than closed-cycle gas plants. Currently, the existing gas production fleet consists mainly of closed-cycle plants, thus having an additional steam turbine." For CREG, it is therefore clear that much of the gas production stock is probably not the most efficient way to fill the structural block in 2027. The fact that existing gas-fired power plants are disappearing from the system is therefore likely to be effective without compromising security of supply. The question of whether the remaining part of the existing gas production fleet represents the most efficient way to complete the structural block with a service life of 500 hours or less is less clear. Possible measures to be taken by owners include temporarily shutting down their units or converting a closed cycle into an open cycle. The CREG proposes to apply a technologically neutral policy while respecting the level playing field between the various actors. Therefore, Madam Minister, in light of this analysis by CREG, are you going to implement measures to encourage operators to convert their power plant to closed-cycle gas into open-cycle power plants? Is there a willingness on the part of operators to make such a conversion? Do you confirm that Electrabel has already converted its power plant to Drogenbos gas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u8	Mrs Dierick, you were the first speaker on the list, after Mrs Lalieux, who was absent, but I had not read your name. For which I apologize. I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u9	Mr President, that is not a problem and you are forgiven. I'm rather small in stature, and perhaps you've looked over me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u10	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u11	Madam Minister, my question also dates from 1 July. Due to the summer recess, these questions have been delayed. They're setting up now might give us a chance to get more information. Maybe steps have already been taken in this respect. It's about supporting the gas plants. I have raised my question following the announcement by EDF Luminus to close no less than four gas plants by the end of October 2017. It would be the plants in Seraing, Ghent, Angleur and Izegem. Together these plants represent an installed capacity of 609 megawatts, not very little. These plants, which have virtually ceased operating in recent years, are being shut down because they seem to be no longer economically viable. In April 2016, a study by Elia indicated all the need for adequacy and flexibility in our Belgian electricity system. Appropriate mechanisms should now be considered to ensure the availability of inputs by 2025. Elia presented two ideas in this study. A first track suggests that any reflection on the possibility of introducing a capacity mechanism should not be isolated but should be examined in a coordinated and harmonised manner with neighbouring countries. A second track concerns targeted improvements to the strategic reserve mechanism. At the end of last year, you announced that there would be work on a plan to support the gas plants, so that they can bridge the period between today and 2025. The government agreement already included that the government will examine the possibility of a new capacity mechanism in consultation with neighbouring countries. Elia has now proposed two ideas in his study. Madam Secretary, what action have you taken on Elia's proposed slopes? What is the state of play at the moment? What is the situation with regard to the investigation of the possibility of the capacity mechanism, as stated in the coalition agreement? Has consultation with neighbouring countries already started and what is the result of this? Not only coordination with neighbouring countries is important, but it is also important that this is done in consultation with stakeholders. For example, a consultation would have taken place with a number of actors, including the CREG, the Federal Planning Office and a number of academics. Can you explain the outcome of this consultation? You would receive proposals so that a text could be presented with solutions by 21 July 2016. Can you explain what solutions were included in this text? When can we take note of the text with the proposed solutions? Fourthly, an unprogrammed final or temporary decommissioning of an installation must always be reported to the Minister, the Committee and the Network Manager, no later than 31 July of the year before the closure. When did EDF Luminus officially report the closure of those four gas plants? Are there any other producers who have reported closure? Fifth and finally, I have another question about the Seraing plant. It is currently part of the strategic reserve, as it has been contracted since November 2014. Will this closure affect security of supply and the creation of a strategic reserve? I'd like to hear your views on that. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u12	Thank you again, Mrs Dierick, as the first speaker of the opposition, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, in its opinion on the study by the system operator Elia on the electricity capacity requirements for the period 2017-2027, the CREG considers that in terms of possible support for gas-fired power plants, "a premature decision, guided by the desire to ensure profitability for existing power plants, would be detrimental to the functioning of the market and to the Belgian economy". For CREG, the current market structure, with a remuneration of the plants on the basis of their production combined with the strategic reserve, is sufficient for the moment. The CREG believes that it is important not to take a hasty decision to allow the market the opportunity to develop innovative solutions, particularly in the field of storage and demand management. Minister, do you share this very clear position of the CREG? Can you also specify your work schedule in terms of demand management (it is known that the CREG has submitted very specific proposals in this area), strengthening the regulatory framework and storage support and, if necessary, maintaining your position in terms of the support mechanism for gas-fired power plants, particularly those which, following the unnecessary, dangerous and costly extension of Doel 1 and 2, threaten to close?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u14	Minister, since my question was tabled in July, I have somewhat updated it. In June, EDF Luminus reported that the final closure of four of its gas-fired power plants was being seriously considered. On 24 June, the board of directors of EDF Luminus approved the proposal to notify the arresting authorities of the combined cycle power plants at Seraing (485 MW) and Ham (52 MW), as well as of the open cycle of Angleur (50 MW) and Izegem (22 MW). This announcement challenges us because gas-fired power plants are needed to bring flexibility to our electrical system. Minister, have you received official notification of the closure from EDF Luminus? What is the announced date of these closures? What are the reasons given? On the other hand, you have mentioned on several occasions the establishment of a mechanism to pay for the capacity of gas-fired power stations. Have you made any proposals to that effect? If so, what is the timetable you intend to follow in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u15	Mr President, in order to define as best as possible the instruments needed to provide the resources for the adequacy and flexibility identified by Elia from 2017 to 2027, the AD Energy held a consultation on the results of the transmission system operator's above-mentioned study, in particular on the market mechanisms that may need to be implemented, at my request from 25 April 2016 to 22 May 2016. The synthesis and analysis of those answers were delivered to me on 15 June 2016. By the way, that note was published in its entirety on the website of the FOD. As you can read, this study AD Energy has encouraged me to make the following recommendations. Firstly, to continue the ongoing work on improving the Energy-Only Market energy market. Secondly, to maintain and improve the strategic reserve as a transitional phase. Thirdly, to begin the preparatory work for the possible implementation of a CRM. Fourthly, and finally, to thoroughly analyse Elia's study published in April 2016 and to regularly assess the need for adequacy and flexibility. On the basis of the responses received by the administration, new simulations, based on less optimistic assumptions, were requested from Elia in order to be sure to be able to respond to all cases, including worse boxes. In addition, various discussions are under way to improve the mechanism of the strategic reserve, but above all to develop a mechanism to keep technical units currently in difficulty on the market in order to avoid their closure, due to a very insufficient number of hours of operation, while they will be indispensable to us tomorrow, at the time of the nuclear out phase. The results of these supplementary studies were presented to me on 20 September by the TSO. It is also clear from the consultation carried out by my administration that the macro-economic context should also be taken into account. In this respect, and before any decision is taken in this area, a study on the possible consequences for the Belgian economy of the lack of investment in flexible units, in view of an increase in imports, will be considered by a specialised working group. The first results are expected in the coming months. My concern is of course to ensure security of supply, while maintaining a certain know-how in Belgium, know-how which is also synonymous with jobs and added value. From now on, my services, in close cooperation with the administration, are working on the development of a mechanism of capacity to implement, where appropriate, according to and up to the need. This mechanism should in any case follow the European Commission's state aid rules, respect technological neutrality and be open to cross-border capabilities. Its design will be discussed with federated entities and neighbouring countries, in order to avoid distortion of the internal electricity market. In order to bring more flexibility to the operation of the electrical system, I have asked the CREG to propose a preliminary draft law amending the law of 29 July 1999 to encourage the participation of demand flexibility in the electricity market and to allow the introduction of a specific tariff regime for storage. I have just received this preliminary draft and it is my intention to submit it to the Council of Ministers for approval as soon as possible. For now, this file is in IKW. It should, I hope, be closed before the end of the year. These two components are essential, namely storage and demand management. Storage because, in addition to its multiple roles, in adequacy, flexibility, black start and auxiliary services, it constitutes the indispensable adoration of wind and solar and allows a smoothing of these productions characterized by their intermittentness. It is also a happy outlet at the time of the negative hours. Secondly, demand management, since it is inconsistent not to make greater or maximum use of the means of production available in industrial or other circles, while they can meet many needs, particularly at the level of ancillary services. Several new storage projects are currently under preparation in the north and south of the country. They'll take our full attention. A press release dated 27 June informed me of EDF Luminus' willingness to close the four plants you mentioned because of insufficient operating hours. 627 megawatt-hours are involved. A few days later, I received an official notification, as appropriate, of the final closure of these units. It reached me, as well as the CREG and the TSO, for closure at the end of October 2017 in accordance with Article 4a of the 1999 Law on the organisation of the electricity market. At a time when everyone knows that tomorrow, during the nuclear phase-out, the gas units will be indispensable to ensure our adequacy, it would obviously be inconsistent not to make every effort to preserve those that exist, if not to promote the construction of new ones. The work undertaken to develop a possible CRM-type device can then usefully contribute to this. With regard to the possible conversion of combined gas-vapour power stations, it is up to the operators alone to decide whether such conversion should be carried out. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the closed-cycle plant in Drogenbos was converted into an open-cycle plant in early May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, although it was difficult to follow and translate everything properly. There's an alarm signal. If four gas plants close, this means that something is going on; that is a cry from the sector. I therefore urge that we do not just ignore that signal, but take action to investigate what support mechanisms are possible. In fact, that is what is stated in the coalition agreement. Several steps have already been taken and all kinds of studies have been requested. Now, however, we urgently need to do something and make decisions. I urge that this be done, in consultation with neighbouring countries and with stakeholders. In fact, if there are new laws or support mechanisms, I would prefer them to be part of our energy pact and not to take all kinds of ad hoc measures, but to make real choices about our long-term vision and our long-term policy. That is precisely what the sector needs. The sooner we can work on the energy pact, the better. Those support measures for gas plants would preferably be included. I look forward to doing so quickly in Parliament. It's 2016. If we want to close all nuclear reactors by 2025, we have absolutely no time to waste. Of course, doing nothing is not an option. That is why my question is once again a plea for the energy pact to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I apologise for the speedy reading of the answer, partly in French. We will send you the Dutch version.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your efforts in Dutch. You're following my advice. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u19	Mrs Dierick, I apologize for having preceded you. The President gave me the floor and I did not pay attention to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u20	It's my big fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u21	Minister, I take note of your answers, but you also announced a study of the work case by Elia. Could we have a copy of this study that was distributed to you? You talk about storage and demand management. I think the CREG has given you a study that is final in 2015 on storage as well as a study in 2016 on demand management. There is therefore an urgent need to work on this dimension. When I asked you about the operators' willingness to proceed with the conversion, closed-cycle open cycle, you said that it was up to the operators to decide what to do. Do I have to conclude that there is no political impetus to start this? It might be important to move forward in this direction. In view of your answer, I can only continue to plead for an energy pact. This will be discussed very soon in this committee. Above all, the federal management of the energy pact will have to be seen. What is she? How can we move forward in this area? That's what we've been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u22	Mr. Chair, I will take the time to analyze the rested-headed minister's answer because it contains many elements on the various issues and I will come back later if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. Has EDF Luminus provided any justification for its position? That was a point that had been debated and you said that in this type of situation they should be required to justify their decision. Did they do it? Do you intend to take an initiative in the future to make this justification mandatory? For the rest, you are announcing a bill. We will wait for it, examine it and return to it. In particular, you tell us that we must work, I imagine with the Regions, on the management of demand, on the flexibility of demand. That is what this bill is about, or rather, the draft bill at this stage that you have been talking about. Do you want to add anything about the justification?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u24	To answer your question, it is simply cost-effectiveness. It is obviously a question of profitability. For now, coal is rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u25	Does EDF use this element in the notification?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u26	We will ask to see the letter as it stands. I don't remember. It can be purely formal. But from the constant exchanges I have with them, I know that this is the problem of profitability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u27	Hence my question also to have a mechanism to review the funding and to allow to meet this argument in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u28	Mr President, I did not have time to read the copy just distributed to us. I would like to ask questions about the entry into force of this convention between Electrabel and the Belgian State, and in particular about the bill as announced almost a year ago. Madam Minister, I have read the press, and my first question is therefore: have you actually tabled the text of the entry into force of the Convention between Electrabel and the Belgian State in the House? Do you confirm the date of November 15, or have you negotiated another coming into force, for Doel 1 and Doel 2, with the operators? Then you answered the question concerning the letter from DG Competition. We are waiting for the documents you promised us. Do you confirm the third bill? Is the Convention and this third bill not a problem for the European Commission? Has there been a notification of this third project, as you said? Can you explain to us what the press today is telling us about the missions entrusted to the CREG, and about the requests for clarification and the questions concerning the fee, especially that of Tihange 1, which you have addressed to him? That's what you apparently said yesterday. So I'd like to know what clarification you asked for from CREG. Could we have the note you sent to CREG, asking for clarification on the explanation of Tihange 1's fee? Here are my questions about this bill as it would have been tabled, or would be tabled shortly, on our offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 7 September the European Commission announced its conclusions as part of the extension of our old nuclear power plants. It considers that there is sufficient evidence in the case to consider that these are potential State aid, in short, illegal gifts to Electrabel. It's not for lack of your attention. You will recall that, together with my colleague Kristof Calvo, we have exchanged a great deal with you in committee and in plenary. You will recall the various opinions of the Council of State, and in particular the opinion given in response to our proposed amendments, in which the Council of State felt that you could not bring the extension into force until you had obtained the green light of the European Commission. But faithful to your way of proceeding, you have listened only to your own opinion, with the result that you have projected the country's entire energy policy into a staggering impasse. The extension of the nuclear power plants was your political struggle, your dossier, your only priority, the one that you, and who occupied us during the first two years. Despite the opposition's remarks, despite the opinion of the Council of State, you went without concern to convince the Commission that there was no state aid and "demonstrate that there can be no doubt as to the existence of such a mechanism". These are the words on page 16 of the first reading report. Obviously, today we must see that you have not convinced and the cutlet fell on 7 September. Today we received a copy of the mail. But we agreed, I think, that in this kind of case, we receive the information spontaneously, automatically. We could have received the information earlier, as part of the good relations we have to maintain and the commitments that have been made. Madam Minister, how are you going to proceed now that the European Commission itself considers these to be potential state aid? What more is needed as a signal for you to revisit the substance and form of your policy? Do you maintain, as you said on Saturday's TV news – and I was really struck by your comments – that the problem is that "the European Commission does not understand Belgian law"? You have to be strong to make such statements, but you have done so! Now that I have just read the letter sent by the European Commission on 7 September, I do not understand how you manage, in your statement on your website on Friday night, to argue that this is a problem only in relation to the question of possible compensation in case it is decided to close nuclear power plants at a later date. I would like to know why you have tried to give an incorrect interpretation of this letter, which we have received a copy of. In La Libre Belgique this morning, we discover that the principle of aid and gifts is also addressed, since the Commission is also interested in the nuclear levy. However, your statement stated: "Only the question of possible compensation is currently under discussion." I really don't see where you could find such information in the mail. Similarly, in your Saturday interview, you say that Tihange 1 is more targeted than Doel 1 and 2. I find nothing like this in this letter, which I quote: "As a result of the exchanges that have taken place (...), the European Commission and the competent services of the Competition DG have reached the preliminary conclusion that the measure in question contains certain elements constituting State aid." In this case, the measure which includes, not "could include", certain elements are the extension of Doel 1 and 2, as the title indicates. We're not talking about Tihange 1. Therefore, I do not understand why you tried to make it appear that the latter was targeted and that the nuclear fee was not targeted, on the grounds that only compensation for recovery would be involved. The rest of the mail is about another file, which I will not address today, because that is not the subject of my question. We'll talk about it later. With regard to the decision of the European Commission, frankly, I ask you for an explanation of your attempts to give an incorrect interpretation of this letter. I'm going back to what we've been able to say in the past. In the parliamentary debates, you have repeatedly stated that there is no question of Belgium notifying Europe of the contested measures. I don't know if Mr. Thiéry was there at the time, but in any case today, he's here. I have planned for him to recall what was said by the minister. She explained that one did not notify because it made all the difference with the Diamond tax. Mr Thiéry, you see the Diamant tax on one side and this file on the other. I will quote a few passages from what we did at the time in Parliament. This is stated on page 5 of the first reading report: "The intention of the government is precisely not to grant aid, for the same reason, but it is not in the government's intention to subsequently notify State aid to the relevant services of the European Commission." Today, the notification took place. You repeated this at second reading in the supplementary report: "It is common ground that the Federal State does not intend to notify the contested measures to the European Commission, since it considers that they are not aid." That was what you said. Since then, you have notified. Thirdly, on page 19 of the same supplementary report: "In this case, the government, unlike the Diamant tax, does not intend to officially notify the decision." And you've done it since then, September 19th. I continue on page 21: "The measures envisaged are not state aid and therefore they should not be notified." "It falls within the discretion of the Federal Government to see what legal measures it is notifying the European Commission so that it can examine whether or not it is State aid and which it does not notify. The government has always considered, and still considers, that the provisions of the bill under consideration do not constitute State aid and therefore should not be notified." Since then, you've done it. However, on page 23, you again said: "The Minister recalls that it is consistent that the Federal State does not intend to notify the contested measures to the European Commission." But you did. Strangely enough, you have changed course to 180° in this file – a bit like the appointment of the independents. Your communiqué of 30 September reverses everything and announces that "the State has decided to notify the compensation scheme contained in the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 conventions". Why such a change of course? It can be assumed that it is your majority partners who have finally managed to align you with what has been done in the Diamond tax. What exactly did you notify? We do not yet have your copy of the specific notification. Now that this is notified, I suppose you will, as with the Diamant tax, wait for a possible green light from Europe before bringing the provision into force. Should I recall that the Council of State had, from its opinion of 25 April 2016, recalled that the measure could not be taken and implemented until you had received this green light. My question therefore also relates to the follow-up according to what the Council of State said. As Le Soir already indicated on 18 May 2016, if the Commission were to formally conclude illegal state aid in several months, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 would be suspended." Have you had contact with the operators about this since 7 September 2016? What are you going to offer them? Will you propose an amendment to the Convention? If so, in what sense? What did they tell you? I come to my second question, which is much shorter. As we know, Madam Minister, you were unable to comply with the timetable set out in the agreement signed with Electrabel, which set 31 July as the deadline for voting on all the texts they had drafted and of which you were the notary. According to the information published during the parliamentary holidays – my question was tabled some time ago – a new deadline was set for 15 November but it was still to be validated by ENGIE's board of directors. I guess in the meantime, it's been done. Can you also confirm that no further amendments have been made to the agreement and that no requirements have been made in the margins of this extension and this agreement? Can we have a copy of the new version of the agreement with the extension of the date? If that is the case, can we explain why it took so long to know that the convention was simply extended as it was? Should this be seen as a link to the investigation that we have the result of today? Finally, I would like to go back to what you said, at least sibyllins, on this part of the RTBF news on 1 July. What exactly did you mean by saying: "What matters to both partners is the signal from the European Commission"? Why does this signal matter? Now that he's here, what conclusion do you draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u30	Madam Secretary, I will try to be brief, but at the same time very clear. What a waste of time and energy you've put us through in this file. Mr Wollants will remember the long night meetings with the discussions on Objectives 1 and 2. With the advice of the Council of State, you were pointed out by several colleagues, particularly from the opposition, of the possible state aid to nuclear operators. Now you say in your familiar style that none of that is true. You know better. In your view, it is not state aid. You should not, in your own words, proceed to a notification. Mr Nollet has quoted in detail from your speeches at the time. However, at that time there were reasonable voices in favour of a notification. They asked that, as in the diamond contribution system, a conditionality be introduced into the legislation. Again, you didn't think this was necessary. You knew better and you continued. Turns out you walked right into the wall. I also understand the nervousness of certain colleagues on the committee last week. Apparently, there was already a letter from the European Commission saying in black and white that there are elements of state aid in the convention. This is not only about the Objective 1 and 2 Convention, but also about Tihange 1. I also found your communication from the past few days quite misleading. You suggested it was about Tihange 1. No, the letter shows that it is also about Objectives 1 and 2. You seem to have had that letter in your possession since September 7th. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. First of all, don't you regret your stubbornness and stubbornness? It is never known that there is such a thing as moving insight. Secondly, what are you going to do in this file? The preliminary conclusion of the European Commission seems to me to be quite clear. You can't just pretend that that conclusion isn't there. Thirdly, you have probably already been in contact with Electrabel and the nuclear operators. What's their reaction? Will they simply carry out the LTO investments as planned? That would seem strange to me, since the European Commission makes it clear that the convention has a lot of problems. I assume that you will also give an update in your reply on Objectives 1 and 2, their legal translation and the delay you have experienced. I would particularly like to focus on the elements of state aid, as we have warned you on several occasions, together with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u31	Minister, I will join the debate on two separate issues. The first concerns the entry into force of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 Conventions. On this subject, I have three questions. Has the effective date been changed? It was seen that the Act on the allocation contribution for Doel 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 did not enter into force by 31 July 2016. Do you have a written agreement with Electrabel on the extension of this effective date? Can you confirm that? I hear about November 15th. If there is a written agreement, can you provide it to Parliament? Second question, as regards the 2016 fee of EUR 20 million for the extension of Doel 1 and 2, has this amount been paid to the State by Electrabel? My last question is about the timetable. We have that we will receive a bill, but when will it be on the table of Parliament? What is your schedule to meet the extension date envisaged in the previous question? With regard to the European Commission's opinion, on 30 September we learned on your website that it is requesting that the extension of Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2 be notified in order to examine the compatibility of the two agreements with the state aid rules. We discussed these issues of state aid in depth during Bill Two's review. The Conseil d'Etat said that notification was needed, as was the opposition. We have raised this problem in the debates on a number of occasions. There have been amendments in this regard. But you refused to follow them. I agree with colleagues who say that Parliament needs all the necessary documents. I would ask for more proactivity in sending documents to Parliament. It happens when you ask, a little at the last minute, but you ask to receive the documents transparently over time. My question is more general. I would also like to join previous speakers. Of course, we receive two letters in session. We are going to study them, but I wanted to ask you, after this debate and after these answers, what follow-up you want to bring to this dossier. That's what I'm talking about. In this list of attached questions, I still have, unless I am mistaken, our colleague Mr Damien Thiéry, who also wishes to ask you, Madam Minister, about the nuclear charges for the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have indeed announced this weekend that you have received a letter from the Competition DG and indeed we now have it in front of you. As far as I am aware, this document speaks well - I hope you will confirm my remarks - of a preliminary conclusion concerning the fee elements for Tihange 1, Doel 1, Doel 2 and, above all, of the controversy over state aid. I would also not like to pick up or go back to Mr Nollet's game, who took pleasure in quoting me by saying that I was present in committee. Yes, indeed, I am present in committee when I do not want the personal interpretation of letters or elements, but I want the truth. The truth, as far as I know, when we look at this mail, we are talking about preliminary conclusions. So, when I hear today that it is a coupet, that it is official state aid, that it is a gift, I am sorry to say that this is pure interpretation. So, Madam Minister, I would like you to be able to give the light of the truth what we really need to know about this because, to my knowledge, the exchanges you had with the Competition DG were informal contacts and they were not specifically a formal notification procedure. I would therefore like to be certain that the government's position on possible state aid is still the same and that, in the end, it is not state aid. One element is also interesting, although it has not been noted, but it is probably less important for some. With regard to the preliminary draft law on the allocation contribution, for the Doel 3, 4 and Tihange 2 and 3 reactors, obviously we will have to debate it, knowing that there is no problem here. I was also surprised to hear that the conventions for Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2 were very different. In the long run, it would be interesting to know these differences, knowing that, to my knowledge, the agreement for Tihange 1 was signed well before that of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Finally, Madam Minister, we have just taken note of the points raised by the European Commission. Could you give us your interpretation of these elements and, above all, let us know what lessons you learn from this letter? What follow-up will be given to him? Indeed, it must be acknowledged that this letter has been a little slow to arrive, considering the various steps you have taken with the Commission. What is of interest to us that you will retain? Do you confirm that the draft law on the allocation contribution has been validated by the Commission? Are the charges for Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 similar? As far as I am concerned, I do not think so, but I would like to see clarity on this. Can the issue of state aid, which is of crucial importance, be addressed in the same way for these two cases or do they differ?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to answer the first question, dated 23 July 2016, an amendment to the Convention of 30 November 2015 on the extension of the life of Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants was signed by the parties to the Convention, namely the Belgian State and Electrabel, which I have just sent to the secretary of the Committee. At the time, I published a press release on this subject. There's no secret. You will be able to read the single article of this amendment which reads: "In the second sentence of Article 11.1 of the Convention of 30 November 2015, the words "31 July 2016" are replaced by the words "15 November 2016". That's exactly what you saw in the press at the time. It's a pure and simple change date. I have already had the opportunity to reply to you on this matter either in committee or in plenary. Of course, the Belgian State has not renegotiated the Doel 1 and Doel 2 conventions. This was one of the first questions asked by Mr de Lamotte. The 2016 fee of 20 million was paid to an account created for this purpose on 18 July 2016 by the operator. The draft law on the contribution of nuclear distribution is not the translation of the convention and has nothing to do with the agreement to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u35	No, I'm sorry. It's taxation. We will come back and go through the letter of 7 September from the European Commission at length. This project will be on the benches of Parliament. I understand that the Chairman is concerned about the future work of his committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u36	It has to be finalised in plenary by 15 November, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u37	That's the point. My press release on Friday indicated that this text was passed to the Council of Ministers on 30 September, after having received the necessary amendments, after consulting the Council of State. He was sent to the Royal Palace to become a project and he will arrive on the benches of the Chamber very quickly. As soon as he gets back to the firm, I'll send him to President Bracke. This bill on the contribution of nuclear distribution to the taxation of Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2, Tihange 3 nuclear power plants will indeed be tabled and voted to be treated as a matter of urgency - so we will have a debate on urgency in plenary - at the request of the government, in the Committee on the Economy. As regards the path of contacts and negotiations with the European Commission: as a reminder, informal exchanges with the Commission began on 20 January 2016. We discussed this extensively in committee during the review of the Redevance bill on the counterpart of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the famous 20 million paid by Electrabel. Following this contact, the Commission sent a series of 18 questions on 3 February 2016. It was on this subject that Mr Nollet told me that I had not convinced the committee, that there were still questions and that an investigation was being carried out, etc. On 4 March 2016, the Belgian State replied to these 18 questions and we had the opportunity, together, in full transparency, to examine all the questions and answers during our committee meeting in March. From the moment I refer back the package of answers you received in communication at the time and which is also included in the annex to the parliamentary proceedings of our committee meeting in March, I have obviously given the committee time to work on the dossier. The least I can do is that, in an informal setting, the committee is working as it sees fit, even in a formal setting, since if it has two months to work, it can ask for longer deadlines in order to deepen the file as it sees fit. Of course, I have complied with its functioning. But around June, I was concerned about the progress of the case and on 29 June 2016 I sent the letter, which I also forwarded to you, Mr Koopman, Director-General of DG Competition, to the European Commission. With Mrs Gauer in charge of the study of the file, they are the two interlocutors we have been working with since the beginning. What do I say on June 29 to the Director General? I'm telling him that as part of the file that we're dealing with, which is referred to above, I answered the questions you asked me on March 4th. As a reminder, the extension of the Tihange 1, DoeI 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants responds to the Belgian Government's concern to ensure the country's security of supply, allowing it to design and develop the country's energy transition by 2025, when nuclear power plants were dismantled. In this context, I am writing to him, I have transmitted to you the first two texts governing the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 - the Belgian government wishing to ensure that these decisions did not constitute State aid - that is, the extension law effectively prolonging the political and legal impetus given by the Belgian government that we voted in 2015 and the law of 2016 on the royalty. You have also received the agreement avenue between the Belgian State and the operator of Doel 1 and Doel 2. In the meantime, the government has finalized the text that adapts the taxation of nuclear power plants not covered by the extension to today's economic reality. At that time, we had already received the advice of the Council of State on 29 June and had begun work on adaptation. We sent the text in the state in which it was at that time and we had the opportunity to communicate it again recently in its final state. "The Government wishes to present this text to Parliament as soon as possible. It completed the revision of the Belgian legal framework for nuclear power plants without calling into question their dismantling in 2025. The Government therefore wishes to know your position as to whether or not there is State aid. To this end, and with a view to ensuring maximum legal certainty for the entire system from the point of view of European law, I would appreciate your reply by 15 July. I stand at your disposal, as well as my firm... politeness formula." It was also communicated at that time, and this is part of the discussions with the European Commission, the text of the law on the extension of Tihange 1 and the agreement signed between the Belgian State and Electrabel and EDF on 12 March 2014 within this specific framework. This is the trade package with the European Commission. I come to the text on the 2016-2026 allocation contribution, which concerns the taxation of non-extended nuclear power plants (Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2, Tihange 3). On June 29, I write this letter and request an answer by July 15. It was on this subject that I stressed, Mr Nollet, during my interview on 1 July that what was important for both partners was the signal from the European Commission. On 1 July, I say that we are awaiting a response from the European Commission. I would point out that the text of the allocation contribution is not the transposition into legislation of the agreement concluded with the operator. The transposition of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is reflected in the two legal texts of 2015 and 2016 which are definitively voted and completed and which have produced the first fee of 20 million which I assume you do not want me to repay to Electrabel. I suppose you'd rather keep that money within the circumscribed scope of the funds to be created as part of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u38	Minister, does that mean that the schedules are no longer valid? That it doesn't matter anymore? That the calculations that are in, the formulas, do not correspond to anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u39	Mr. de Lamotte, there are no calculations in Doel 1, Doel 2,'s royalty, you know that, since...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u40	I'm talking about the appendices, minister, and the allocation contribution, we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u41	That's right, I'm gonna make it. The Commission is very clear, in three paragraphs, that is the letter of 7 September... I'm going to get to that precise point that's going to reassure you absolutely. In the meantime, contacts with the European Commission are continuing. It recalls this in its letter of 7 September. You see that there is an exchange of information with the Commission on 3 and 24 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u42	Mr President, unless we are mistaken, these elements have not been received. We received the original letter, the answers to the questions, but the elements of August 3 and 24 were not included in the documents sent to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u43	These are exchanges of information. It's always the same practice. You read that at the head of the letter. You saw him right away. And you're only asking me now. It's okay. So, I'm gonna ask my chief of staff right now...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u44	The president is calling for a proactive approach on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u45	Is transparency a way to govern or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u46	Look, I'd like to make it clear once and for all. We decided that you would ask in advance, before each committee, for the documents you wanted. So you did and I answered. You're asking for new documents. You are very familiar with the context - we have discussed it dozens of times in committee, particularly on the occasion of the committees of 20 and 27 September last - which is that of the Tihange 1 Convention which is confidential, since it contains industrial and commercial elements. The Commission is also bound in the same way, because it must protect, in accordance with European rules, investments made by operators. This is valid in all branches, including offshore. I would point out to you that, on the offshore, I have a notification procedure with sensitive industrial and commercial elements that are developed by the parks in their financial contract and that I cannot produce. This is the same answer for all operators. Everyone is on an equal footing, I would like to remind you. So from the moment you ask me this legitimate question, on which I do not make any obstat nihil, I ask the European Commission for permission to provide you with these documents. If she answers yes, you'll get them, I don't have a problem. I've done it like this every time from the beginning, you know it very well. Let me now return to my text and the letter of 7 September 2016. The European Commission has replied to the Belgian Government as regards what seems to you to be the most worrying, although it must be noted that you are all concerned, namely the distribution contribution, i.e. the taxation of unextended nuclear power plants and the fundamental question of whether or not this law is invalidated, in your words, Mr de Lamotte. What exactly does the European Commission say? I quote: "The preliminary draft law for the inclusion of the allocation contribution 2016-2026 does not appear to contain any elements of State aid in so far as it introduces a system of taxation of the unextended nuclear stock, namely the Doel 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 power plants." It appears to the Commission that the allocation contribution is not a selective measure and therefore does not constitute State aid in so far as the specific taxation of electricity producers from nuclear sources is justified by the nature and economy of the system and/or electricity producers from nuclear sources are not in a factual and legal situation comparable to that of other electricity producers." Where is it in the letter, to be quite precise? This can be found in extenso in the second paragraph of the front of the letter of 7 September and in the third paragraph of the back of the letter. This brings me to another problem that seems to be worrying you. I quote: "The competent services of the General Competition Services have reached the preliminary conclusion that the measure in question contains certain elements constituting State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) TFEU (Operational Treaty of the European Union). In the last paragraph of the letter – these two elements are linked – the Commission states that "this position does not prejudge the Commission's consideration of the measures concerning the extension of the Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 nuclear power plants." As you know, as we discussed it extensively in committee in March 2016, the Commission is looking at the whole Belgian nuclear framework. That's why I sent him all the information about Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. The Commission adds: "including the tax measures envisaged in this context", in the context of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1; in other words, the charges, the tax counterpart of the extension of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 and the question of whether or not to qualify them as State aid. After reading this letter and continuing the exchanges with the European Commission, I found that it was the Belgian State which decided itself, motu proprio, to notify the European Commission on 19 September, according to the scope appearing in the letter of 7 September. This scope focuses on the Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 extended power plants. I know, thanks to the exchanges with the European Commission and I am giving you the verbatim of my interviews this weekend, that this scope covers the compensation system contained in the Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 agreements, as well as the charges (tax measures), which are the counterpart of these extensions. I notify you on 19 September, and here you will recognize me because you know me well, but it is not me alone who do it: the Belgian State ticks the box that it does not consider to be State aid. The latter pursues its legitimate and correct logic, which is that of a debate between the European Commission to find that European rules are applied or not when the European judge is not the Commission, but the European Court of Justice in fine. The Belgian State therefore ticks this box notifying that it considers that there is no State aid. It thus notifies on the compensation system and on the fee, as already stated. The Commission is examining these systems and will say whether or not this constitutes State aid and whether or not it is compatible with European competition rules. You mustn't yell at the wolf immediately. This is what you have been doing since the start of this case, when there is no problem since the Commission says, on the one hand, that "the project allocation contribution can go to parliament and does not constitute state aid", on the other hand, does not attack the extension of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 plants through the legislation that enshrines them, i.e. the 2013 law and the 2015 and 2016 laws concerning Doel 1 and Doel 2, but simply says that it is looking at the compensation systems provided for in the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 conventions and the royalty systems that are part of them. The compensation schemes are the same since they are based on Belgian law. I will take word for word what I said during the interviews this weekend so that you are fully informed. Secondly, it looks at royalties. The 20 million fee is easy, there's no formula, it's a package. The Tihange 1 fee is less easy...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u48	I explained myself at length about this, but if I have to go back to the lines later, I'll do it...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u49	For entry into force,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u50	For the fee that is linked to the Tihange 1 formula, it's a little more complicated. For this reason, I wrote on 3 October 2016, i.e. yesterday, in order to inform the Commission further - as the Commission registered my file on 29 September - in order to repeat simulations starting from the electricity prices as they were seen at the time of the establishment of the 2013 Tihange 1 Convention. The negotiation at the time took place in 2013 and the convention was signed in 2014. Let us start, on the one hand, from the electricity prices that were known at that time and, on the other hand, from the current electricity prices, by providing an excellent table which allows the Commission to influence the formula on the different electricity prices. I have never had such a picture, but the Commission is asking me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u51	Why are you asking for these paintings? You're telling us that "the Commission..." and you're not transmitting anything to us? Last week, we asked you for the CREG simulations. They still haven't arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u52	I would point out to you, Mr de Lamotte, in case you have not heard it, that, unfortunately, this concerns Tihange 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u53	We'll talk about it again...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u54	We'll talk about it again...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u55	Where does the Commission ask for these tables in your letter? Show me the passage where the Commission is asking for this...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u56	Mr. President, I haven't finished my explanation...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u57	I didn't finish my line either...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u58	You didn't have the word...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u59	The minister continues her answer and it will be possible to reply after...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u60	When I'm interviewed in the JT this weekend, I'm saying textually that "the European Commission says that two points are troubling her. First, compensation for early shutdown of reactors. Secondly, the fee payable by the owners of the reactors instead of the nuclear tax", i.e. the taxation of Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and Doel 2, which is the counterpart of the extension. "The Commission does not know how Belgian law works". I did not say that the Commission does not know Belgian law, I said that it does not know the compensation system as it operates in Belgian law. I'm so sorry. I continue: "And she goes with us to continue the exchange and finally decide on the principle of whether or not there is state aid, and whether there is one, whether or not it is compatible with the principles of European competition." I'm going on. In the 1:00 p.m. JT, I said that our analysis, on the Belgian side, is that even if there was state aid – and we say the opposite, we checked the box "We think there is no state aid" – it would be compatible with European competition law. There are other examples in other European countries with conventions for nuclear power plants, for example in the United Kingdom with a guaranteed electricity price for Hinkley Point. On the radio, Marc Sirlereau asked me if it would not call into question the extension of these plants for 10 years. You can laugh, but that's how it is. We're totally semantic, so I'm answering, and it's going to be in the transcript. I replied: no, absolutely not. The legislation allowing this extension is not examined by the Commission. I just said it, I say it again. All this is already in the news, very precisely since this weekend. I would like to continue to make motions and trials of intent, as usual. I'm used to it. I want to answer you as precisely and as fully as possible. The conclusion is that we are continuing our discussions with the European Commission. The Belgian State's view is that there is no State aid. The European Commission must therefore prove, if it hears it, that there is one. The scope of the notification is the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 conventions, which allows us to pass the legislation on the taxation of second generation nuclear power plants and which does not in any way attack the extension of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 which is definitively acquired by the legislation that was voted in this country in 2013 for Tihange 1 and in 2015 and 2016 for Doel 1 and Doel 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u61	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I am a little sawed by your way of responding and your way of dealing with the matter, in the sense that between the content of the letter and the expression you make of it, it is from black to white. In this letter, there is nothing or almost nothing about what you referred to in your answer. This one is long because you are not precise and you introduce a kind of fog in your response. This is part of the confusion. Indeed, I quote from today's article by La Libre Belgique: "The Commission is having difficulty deciphering the Tihange 1 formula". Can you tell me where, in the Commission's letter, we are talking about this? Nowhere! In the weekend newspaper L'Echo, you say: "For Tihange 1, it would be a little more complicated. The Tihange 1 formula would be particularly problematic." Do you want to tell me where this is referred to in the Commission's letter? It is indeed a fog that you refer to in your answer because you do not know how to be precise in relation to a number of elements. I now come back to two points because I want my quick and precise reply. Madam Minister, we have spent hours in committee with three opinions from the Council of State. On three occasions, you were told that there was a need for notification. We've spent hours and what's happening now? Six months later, you are told to notify. You lock yourself in a kind of mental scheme where you are in your bubble and only you are right. The Council of State, peanuts! The parliamentarians, peanuts! Stakeholders and operators, peanuts. That's, actually, what's going on. You're in a scenario that doesn't match reality. The Commission is not telling you that. Moreover, the letter of 7 September is intended to extend the duration of operation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants. Let me turn to the second point I would like to make today. You're telling us that we changed the date of July 31 to November 15th. All right! I assure you that I will analyze your bill that you will table on our benches in detail, and we will see what points will be clarified. Earlier, I made it clear, with respect to Bill 3 and Schedule C2, that there was indeed a convention and schedules and that this annex was problematic. I invite you to read Article 11. In conclusion, minister, because I want to be shorter and perhaps more specific than you, you manipulate facts, writing for political purposes. This case deserves better than the little lies of the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u62	Mr de Lamotte, I have been used to the unsophisticated terms that you have gratified me from the beginning: "Madame, you are in your bubble, you smoke, you manipulate texts, you lie etc.The usual soup.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u63	As a cook, you're not bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u64	You can continue your little kitchen bad, it doesn't bother me, but basically, I would like to tell you this. I know that you would like to be in my purse or, more precisely, in my Chief of Staff's, when she talks to the Commission about what's going on. But what I am telling you is not the opposite of the truth; it is the exact truth that emerges from the discussions with the Commission. And what is extraordinary with you is that when I want to do well and explain to you what is going on, so that you have a living and up-to-date account of what is happening with the Commission, it does not suit you. You return to the written elements that you have, and you try to put them in contradiction. So you're not playing the game. You're telling me you don't have enough documents, and I need my office, every time a document comes in, to show it to you. That's why I told you that if you had time to waste, you could always introduce yourself to my firm. Apparently, I have to strengthen it, and so I could hire you without a problem. You'd work with me. You and your collaborator have a long experience, which, I have no doubt for a moment, could be very profitable. You always ask me for documents etc. I do not know if we see this in other committees. I answer each time point by point, depending on the strict legal framework in which I have to work. And here, because I'm giving you information about the live exchanges with the Commission, it's not right for you. You find that this contradicts the documents I give you. Finally, what do you need? I think you really need to be a little girl, and we need to put you in my chief of staff's purse to see if what I'm telling you here is the truth or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u65	I'll give you the floor again, Mr de Lamotte, but if there's a line after each line that gives rise to a new line, we're not out of here. I think we have to stay at the bottom. Style formulas and non-verbal language have no interest. What matters is the substance, the content of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u66	Mr President, I have based myself on facts and not around and around! The minister has been cooking us her pot-au-feu for several months on this issue! Madam Minister, if you think that the European Commission can be asked to send us a report and not the interpretation you make of it, I am taking a note from the Commission for clarification. Then I won't have to turn into a little mouse to be in your secretary's bag or your chief of staff...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u67	The European Commission is not the secretariat of Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u68	Mr President, I understand Lamotte's colleague. I'm going to give you some facts. I hope that this will not lead to virulent reactions, as Lamotte's colleague has just had them! Minister, I am basing myself on your two news releases of September 30th. In point 2, you say: "The Competition DG has come to the conclusion that there may be some elements of aid". When you read the document,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u70	It is on the conditional part because when you read the September 7 letter, it is stated that "the measure referred to in the subject contains certain elements constituting..." and not "comport" or "could include". The second point is your second communiqué of 30 September in which you say: "Only the question of possible compensation is currently under discussion". Today, we discover that not at all! It is all the mechanisms that are being challenged, including - and as you have said here - the whole tax component that is being questioned. This part is considered a gift - and here it is my terms, which are not in the letter, but admit that I can use them - as a gift to Electrabel and is considered by the Commission as illegal state aid. However, you are not right when you state in your press release of 30 that this is only for potential compensation. Then I come to the notification. In the first communiqué of the 30th, you state that the Belgian State has decided to notify the compensation scheme. This is contrary to the line you have always followed in the past. At each time, and I quoted the pages for the transcript, you announced that you would not notify. But you did! From then on, and apart from any semantic controversy, one can draw a parallel with the diamond tax. I have not heard your answer in this regard. In any case, that seems logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u71	Mr President, I will reply with Mr Nollet's permission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u72	Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u73	Minister, I authorize you to do so because you are providing a supplementary response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u74	Mr President, thank you. I will read point 2 of my communiqué, since you are referring to this document, Mr Nollet: "In the context of exchanges with the Competition DG, the Commission sent a letter to the Belgian State on 7 September stating that the competent services of the Competition DG have reached the preliminary conclusion that there could be certain elements constituting aid within the meaning of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union". Why "could"? Because I remind – and this is the eternal problem – that this is not yet decided. This work remains to be done. Therefore, the Commission will take a decision at a certain time. It is for this reason, Mr Nollet, that I say in paragraph two: "This view is not shared by the Belgian State, which has decided to notify the scheme of compensation contained in the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2 agreements by maintaining and specifying its view of the absence of State aid in its notification". I've said it all along. No one knows. The Belgian State's view is that we are continuing in the same direction. My answer is that I don't know if we are in the same context as the Diamond tax. I don't know if Mr. Van Overtveldt notified by checking that for him... I don't know. I'm not in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u75	I'm sorry to interrupt, but you said so in the previous work. You justified it in the previous work by saying, there is a difference with the Cayman tax, it is that they notified it while criticising that it was state aid. It's in the work reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u76	I'll check it out. Don't worry. I also know how to go and see exactly what's right. I will come back to you on this and see if the notification includes a position of the Belgian State in the Diamond Act by which the Belgian State says "we, we consider that there is no state aid". If that is the case, it is exactly the same position, indeed. If this is not the case, it is not the same position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u77	Mr Nollet, may I invite you to finish your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u78	On this point, we therefore agree. You will see and if that is the case, I assume that the same conclusions will be drawn from the same facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u79	Not necessarily. I remember this whole debate very well. You meant "Why don't you act like the government in the Diamond problem since you're in the same situation? So why don't you insert in the text,..." – but what text?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u80	In the law that was discussed at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u81	The second project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u82	We didn't. The European Commission does not tackle this legislation. She says she's interested in conventions. It does not attack the text where you wanted me to put an amendment concerning the expectation of the European Commission's position before the entry into force of this text. It was voted and came into force by producing the payment of twenty million that you know. That's why I asked you earlier if you wanted me to repay the twenty million – possibly as a conservatory – to Electrabel. In any event, this text is finally voted on and the Commission is not talking about it. She talks about the Doel 1 and Doel 2 conventions and Tihange 1 conventions and not about the 2013, 2015 and 2016 extension legislation. This amendment, which you wanted, was not necessary for the Commission as it makes it very clear that all legislation can go through without difficulty, including - which has nothing to do with - the taxation of unextended power stations, where it already says that, according to the three paragraphs in which it supports its view very clearly, there is no state aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u83	Mr Nollet, may I ask you to conclude because we are still on topical issues with a limited speaking time in principle. There is certainly a very important debate, but I will ask everyone to conclude in the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u84	Mr President, I am just trying to re-establish a minimum of consistency in the remarks, and perhaps see what position changes, which can also happen. Maintaining consistency means remembering what was said at the time. At the time, if it was said that there was a parallel that was not correct, did not make the opposition but that was not correct in the eyes of the government with the Diamond tax, it was because, for the Diamond tax, you had notified it. Now that you're in the same parallel, I maintain that you have to do exactly the same thing to be consistent with what you said at the time. Of course, if you change your line again from what was said at the time... Go and read what was said at the time and you'll see that things are like that. I still had some elements in the line but more on that point. I would point out that the Council of State said at the time that if the Commission were to conclude illegal state aid at the end of the process, not the interim decision, the extension would now be suspended. Do you agree with that interpretation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u85	No, I do not agree with that interpretation since I repeat, I said it in my weekend interviews, I said it in my press release of 30 September, the extension is acquired and it is unwavering. Let's imagine the rest of the process. Let's imagine that there is - in my opinion - a small percentage of luck... You think it's a big percentage of luck that the aid is declared illegal. That's always the way you talk. You say, "There's illegal help." That's what you're saying. The Commission will decide. Then you said "possibly illegal help" and then we can agree, we can join because it's the half-empty or half-full glass story. When you start an exchange of this type where you have someone who will make a decision, you need to know what the quality of this decision is. The European Commission says: "I am not interested in the legislation that is being voted for, finished; I am interested in the conventions." If there is a small percentage of chance in my opinion, and in your opinion a large percentage, that she says, "There is state aid that does not comply with the rules of competition", the Belgian State still has to position itself in relation to this and could very well, if it continues in its current logic, attack the decision of the European Commission before the European Court of Justice, you know that very well. We must therefore not prejudge the future in an exchange like this; we must first wait for the decision of the European Commission, as you have very wisely pointed out. Secondly, the situation will have to be assessed. But if a decision were to be taken by the European Commission, it would only affect the conventions. However, the latter are only important for the sustainability of a framework. In other words, at some point the question will have to be asked whether the Belgian State wants to continue to extend the life of these plants and whether the operators also want to do so. But, in the law, the impulses and guidelines exist for extension. I understand that you want a change to happen, a change that you would no doubt welcome, in fact, with a big hat by saying that the Belgian State finally realizes that the measures that you have been advocating for a long time are not without foundation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u86	I will indeed be the first to do so, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u87	We'll see when the time comes, Mr. Nollet. Who will live will see!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u88	Madam Minister, it seems to me that you have not answered one of my questions about whether you have had any contact with the operators since 7 September?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u89	Of course. I have constant contact with the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u90	What do they say about this issue? Indeed, they will also face some uncertainty. There is the question of the law and the conventions, but there is also the view that they are facing this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u91	You know that the operators accompany us each time during the exchanges we can have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u92	You explained it last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u93	And the same goes for the offshore. Offshore operators are accompanying us during visits to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u94	The Commission's rules provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u95	That's right. In fact, I quoted it in our work by stating that I found it quite normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u96	But to return to our point of view, what is their point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u97	They're following the file like us. They work with us, in their interest, knowing that the interest of the State is not necessarily the same as theirs. However, for the time being, the agreement is aimed at extending the life of the plants. We are therefore working to ensure that this system is safe to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u98	Mr Nollet, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u99	Mr President, I see no problem with what I am interrupted, but it must be valid in both directions. You said it in your last sentence: the interests of the state and the operators (as I call them) become increasingly divergent of course... Since you will, if the Commission confirms this, be bound and obliged to increase taxation, which is obviously contrary to their interests. Which could cause them to loosen up from the extension. Rather, I want to turn the debate in the other direction and once again give you a pole. I can only encourage you to seize her before you are forced to take another stick. It's the image of the pole and the stick. With regard to the convention which you have sent us with the update via a single article, Article 11.1, which you know perfectly well, specifies that if everything is not settled by 15 November, namely the third text which we will soon be discussing, you will be untied. Enjoy it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u100	You've already told me before! And you're telling me again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u101	Admit, minister, that there is an additional element that is not conditional. Although it is preliminary, it is not conditional: the Commission considers that the measure in question contains certain elements constituting State aid. I don't think it's "like" or "could" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" or "be" It's in the preliminary analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u102	But that's the fact that it's not definitive, that's the use of the subjunctive. This is not the fact that the Commission doubts because you can see clearly that in my statement that "contains" is mine and then I open the quotation marks and repeat the Commission's sentences. I'm telling you, the process, and you understand it well, is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u103	What is clear is that we always have an interest in having the exact documents (and we received them this morning) in order to know exactly what is being said rather than just the interpretation you give of them. I say again, Article 11.1 is for you a legal weapon to get you out of this case and, to the limit, the opposition gathered will help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u104	Yes, I see how the opposition will help me use this weapon! I tell you immediately that the government's option is not this one, is not yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u105	Of course, but rely on us to convince you, and if we don't, one day or the other, it will be the European Commission or the Council of State. The difficulty in this kind of case - and that will be my last sentence, - is that you are still waiting for the last moment to hear the arguments of people who have a different point of view than yours. We may be in disagreement, but I ask you to further integrate the reflections of each other, including when partners of the majority let you know their opinions. You're still waiting for the last moment and we're necessarily going into the wall. We lost two years with this case, but we could have saved a lot of time. I'll give you a pole here...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u106	That's good...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u107	Take advantage of section 11.1...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u108	For my part, a very brief reply... [[(...):...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u109	In the absence of Ms.Lalieux, I have a different role...On the coming into force of the Doel 1 Doel 2 convention, which was my first question, Madam Minister, you give us information on the written agreement, you give us the endorsement, the date of extension is confirmed, you confirm the payment of the royalty. Compared to that, there is a November 15th deadline. We will have a debate on urgency in plenary. I have retained these elements of my answer to my first question. This means that we will have to work again urgently, in a timetable at the Hussard, to arrive within a time-frame that will probably be very tight. On the other point, the question of State aid, of course, we are reading and we are receiving the answer of 7 September, which finally says that the competent departments of the Directorate-General for Competition have reached the preliminary conclusion - it must be stressed that the word "preliminary" is not a final decision, but we assume that there are elements - that the measure in question - and we are talking about the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 - contains some elements constituting State aid. This is simply an indication, we will see what the final decision will be, not the decision of DG Competition, but of the Commission as a whole. The decision whether or not it is state aid is not a matter for the government, not for you, but for the European Commission. On the other hand, there are, of course, elements in the Convention, and I will simply quote one: "The provision that the Belgian State would pay compensation to Electrabel if Doel 1 and Doel 2 were to close following a judicial decision". We understand that the European Commission is reluctant to deal with this type of arrangement. On the substance, what I think is important to emphasize is that the error that was made at the time of the bill's consideration was not to notify at that time. That you don't listen to the opposition, that you don't listen to the arguments of Nollet, Lalieux, de Lamotte, that's one thing, that's your political choice. But if you don't listen to the Council of State, it's more boring. For he said that we had to notify and now the European Commission also says that we have to notify. The opposition was therefore right to warn you that you had to notify at some point. That was just what I wanted to say in conclusion. I think we'll have an opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u110	Finally, on the basis of this series of questions, we have almost had a topical debate. I let him go as such. We have been quite wide on speaking times. But let us return to a normal speaking time for the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u111	Mr President, Mr Nollet, it is true that I am not always present in this committee. It must be recognised that if we are to hold a debate, as you said, Mr President, it is an open debate. In this case, we shoot red balls and accept each other's questions, answers and replicas. I am a little surprised at the functioning of the committee. In the end, we are dealing with oral questions. Normally, there is regulation in place. Mr President, I understand that these debates take a great deal of time simply because we have not complied directly with the rules in place. It's a detail. You yourself have spoken of a debate. I think things have been clearly set out now. I would like to go back to one or the other element which for me is fundamental. First of all, I think that we should, whether we want it or not, thank the minister for giving us, in a way, the history of the case. This is fundamental because, between the files that pass from one commission to another or from one cabinet to the commission, there is obviously a certain amount of time going on. To the initiatives of the minister, there is not always a response within a time frame that will perhaps allow us - and here for once I agree with Mr. Nollet - to have more serene debates. The sooner we have the information, the faster or better the debates take place. However, on the basis of the document we received today... I am very pleased, Mr. Chairman, that you have alluded to it, because it is fundamental. You did talk about a preliminary answer. What is wrong and what really surprises me in this kind of commission is that a preliminary answer is interpreted as definitive; and it is said that it is state aid and that is really a problem. No, Mr. President, I think you said that too. Who will ultimately decide whether there is state aid or not? This is the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u112	Indeed, it is the European Commission. It's her job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u113	That is the fundamental element. Another interesting element of this letter is that as far as Doel 3 and Doel 4 and Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 are concerned, we can move forward. I am surprised that, in the Leader of the Opposition, we have not really noted this element which is fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u114	Mr. Thiéry, may I interrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u115	If the president allows it, isn't he?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u116	I just pointed out in my speech that I was not doing it voluntarily because the question was about Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. I didn't want to add more. I reported it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u117	It wasn't a specific attack, Mr. Nollet. On the other hand, as regards the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we are also in the right place. That too is extremely important to report. As far as the chapter on incoming and outgoing documents is concerned, honestly, I am a little surprised by the nature of the debate. I said it was interesting to have the information as soon as possible. But it seems surreal to me to ask a cabinet to photocopy all incoming and outgoing documents for all subjects and parliamentarians. To my knowledge, in other committees, this is not done. Since this is absolutely not the case, I would not like to be told that, because these documents are not systematically submitted, it is obstruction of information. That's not right! The minister reminded – and it is fundamental to me – that if parliamentarians want documents, they just have to ask for them. They can receive them. But systematically asking for copies of all documents, we are of course in surrealism. We also talked about the Diamant tax. To my knowledge, the European Commission reported on 29 July that it was not state aid, contrary to what was said here in the Chamber. I would like to stress that. I end with a more personal note. There are things that can be accepted in the parliamentary debate. There are things that are far less acceptable. And I am speaking, Mr President, to some parliamentarians or rather to a particular parliamentarian. Today, Mr de Lamotte, you have spoken out in terms of limits and even close to the scandal vis-à-vis the minister. This isn't the first time! Last week in committee, you said, "I'm not a woman but I also know how to do two things at the same time". Today you say, "When it comes to cooking, you are served!" Well, there's something to be surprised about this kind of language and reproach to a minister when you know what happened and that caused a lot more trouble to one of our colleagues Open Vld in a plenary session, not so long ago. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to avoid such comments at parliamentary level. This makes absolutely no difference to the debate. They are, at the limit, offensive to the people you have in front of you in the discussion. This note is more personal, but I can't let that pass. I find this attitude lamentable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u118	I think everyone has freedom of speech. I am a Democrat and allow everyone to speak. In any case, with regard to the organisation of these questions, as I said earlier, I consider that, given the importance and interest of the subject, we have taken the time to hold this debate. What matters to me is the substance and the content. Everything else... if you come to this commission, you sometimes hear certain expressions, because of each other. I still regret it, but we have to stick to the bottom of the case. I therefore propose that we continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u119	Debates of the European Parliament 12902 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u120	Mr President, Minister, the CREG believes that if market conditions improve, strategic reserve capacities should be able to return to them so as not to artificially generate price peaks as a result of capacity retention. As the CREG points out, it is important to ensure that the return to the market is not for the benefit of a single balancing officer. To this end, capacity could be required to be available on the market. On the other hand, a longer-term perspective would allow the participation of new production units in the auction. With this in mind, the note from CREG suggests that a mechanism should be put in place to reimburse the cover of investment costs, which could also allow these units to return to the market. The CREG welcomes Elia's idea of making the strategic reserve available to market participants during a period of prolonged price peaks. However, in the long run, the Commission considers that each market participant should be free to determine its own exposure to price risk (cf. freedom to choose financial investments). In this way, the market could develop its own hedging products against price peaks that would allow the capacity held in reserve to be remunerated through a market mechanism. Minister, are you going to follow the recommendations of CREG? Will the operation of the strategic reserve be changed? If so, when? What changes do you intend to make? Are you going to follow Elia and CREG who are arguing for making the strategic reserve available during periods of prolonged price peaks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u121	Mr President, in my proposals to deal with the capacity deficit highlighted by Elia's study on the need for adaptability and flexibility in the electrical system, there is the possible improvement of the strategic reserve as a transitional measure. My proposal is currently being discussed within the intercabinets. One of the possible improvements to the mechanism of the strategic reserve is that of the accuracy of the conditions of return to the market. A working group composed of experts from DG Energy, CREG, the transmission system operator and my firm also identified in 2015 other possible improvements, the possible implementation of which will have to be analysed and decided by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u122	Mr. Chair, I take note of the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u123	Madam Minister, in your press release of 30 September 1999, you announced that an amendment to Article 7bis of the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 would introduce an obligation for the transmission system operator to consult users and the CREG on the assumptions and methodology applied for the needs assessment. Minister, why haven't you introduced a bill to amend this section yet? When are you going to make your September 30 commitment come true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u124	I am pleased to note that we are returning to perfectly normal deadlines for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u125	Mr de Lamotte, the maintenance of the strategic reserve mechanism in its present form is under discussion within the intercabinets. I just said it. Despite the absence to date of legislation on user consultation and the CREG of the assumptions and methodology applied by the TSO for the assessment of the needs of this reserve, it should be noted that, on initiative, the TSO and the DG have made progress this year in identifying the needs to enable such consultation to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u126	Minister, as I understand it, the commitment of September 30 is no longer valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u127	Minister, can you clarify this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u128	Mr President, according to my colleague, but we are going to check with the cabinet, this new Article 7bis which would introduce this obligation already effective – since it was applied last year and it was even earlier this year – will pass, I am told, in a law containing various provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u129	We're waiting for him. However, there is a law. It is therefore a matter of application. You say that this obligation is already in force without legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u130	Mr. de Lamotte, who can do the least. The law does not yet introduce this obligation, because a legislative change is necessary, but operators have been applying it spontaneously since last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u131	We therefore await the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u132	Minister, in her memo published on May 27, 2016, CREG notes that, according to Elia, the current market structure is sufficient and that no decision is required on the establishment of another mechanism at this time. The CREG believes that a biannual update of the study would be useful and that if this biannual analysis of medium-term needs demonstrates significant needs for large new capacities, the desirability of the introduction of a CRM should be studied in a coordinated manner with neighbouring countries and can only be considered as a replacement for the strategic reserve. The regulator states that "as Elia recommends, an attitude of expectation is justified in the short term. A premature decision, guided by the desire to ensure profitability for existing power plants, would be detrimental to the functioning of the market and to the Belgian economy, with overcapacity leading to an additional cost for the final consumer." In addition, CREG has studied a new method: the Operational Reserve Demand Curve. It provides rarity prices that pay all active units during periods of rarity by adding a supplement to the price of balancing during periods of rarity. Market participants can then be paid for rarity without being forced to reflect rarity in their auctions. As the regulator explains, "the idea behind the rarity increase is to replace exceptional and unpredictable price peaks with smaller but more frequent rarity signals. This approach could encourage demand participation in the flexibility mechanism. This method is based on the assumption that while it is difficult to predict demand for installed capacity for many years in advance - as most CRM require - it is comparatively easier for a TSO to predict the operating reserve and availability requirements for the following time or portion of an hour." For example, CREG believes that "the ORDC can be considered as an alternative to CRM with a key advantage linked to a possible cross-border implementation in the context of an integrated European energy market." Finally, the regulator writes that "complementary research and the possible national implementation of this mechanism could take place in 2018 at the earliest." Minister, are you going to require a biannual update of this Elia study? The CREG is very reserved on the implementation of a capacity compensation mechanism. Are you still going to continue in this direction? What do you think of the alternative presented by CREG to CRM, the Operational Reserve Demand Curve and the implementation of rarity prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u133	Mr President, first of all, I would ask that the study on flexibility needs be updated by Elia on a regular basis. If possible, every two years. You know that in this context, I asked for a refinement of this study, which was presented to me on 20 September, we will soon talk about it. Further simulations will be requested and will take into account the comments made during the consultation by DG Energy. The demand curve operational reserve is a method developed in Texas, which is to replace exceptional and unpredictable price peaks with smaller but more frequent rarity signals. This method requires a more in-depth analysis, which is envisaged by CREG, and I will not fail to read its analysis carefully. It is too early to decide on a possible implementation at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u134	Thank you. We will follow the file and I hope that the new study of Elia that you mentioned is already on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u135	I assume it will be, like the previous one, projected on their site and on DG Energy's site, but we may ask when they will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u136	Yes, and if we can have it or have a link to this study, that would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u137	Yeah, yeah, we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u138	Question No 13127 by Mrs Karine Lalieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u139	Minister, since 1 January 2016, the Act of 29 June 2014 amending the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy has entered into force. I would like to know where we are in the enforcement of this law. We know that it displeases the operators concerned, but above all that it reveals their inability to find insurance companies on the market ready to take on what, however, does not even represent 1% of the cost in the event of a nuclear accident. I hope - this is my first question - that you will be able to reassure us that you have implemented it and that this law is now fully operational as the Parliament has wished, in particular by refusing to follow you when you have imagined a postponement of the entry into force of the new provisions. What is the situation, in particular, with regard to the drafting of the Royal Decree on State Guarantee? My next question concerns the investigation of requests for state guarantees made by non-insurance operators. The Belgian Monitor of 5 April lists the applications submitted. Can you report on the results of the investigation of each of the applications? On 20 May, noting that private insurers were turning their backs on the nuclear lobby - and we can understand them - the Council of Ministers launched a public contract for the appointment, for a period of four years, of a legal adviser to assist the Belgian State in granting a State guarantee in place of this unobtainable private insurance. I would like to know who has been appointed to do so and what are the conclusions, even provisional (like the committee) of its work, in particular in terms of determining the remuneration of this guarantee and its compatibility with the European State aid scheme. I would also like to know the ability of Elini (the mutuals of the operators) to take over all or part of what could not be found in the insurance sector. What share of the 1.2 billion Elini can support? Finally, I would like you to complete your answers with any useful information to understand the current situation and your intentions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy applies to all nuclear accidents and not only to those of catastrophic magnitude. Since the unannounced entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014, nuclear insurers have demonstrated their ability to offer new insurance, particularly in terms of environmental damage coverage, which has already been substantially increased, even though it does not yet reach EUR 1.2 billion. The Council of Ministers of 20 July 2016 approved a preliminary draft law which is currently being submitted for the opinion of the Council of State. This preliminary draft contains, in particular, provisions designed to place operators, as a transitional measure, in a situation close to the situation prior to the unannounced entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014, while retaining to the victims the benefit of certain positive elements. The application of Article 10/1 of the above-mentioned Act of 22 July 1985 requires successive interventions by the following colleagues: firstly, the Minister of Economy, who has examined and validated the claims for guarantees lodged by nuclear operators by means of ministerial decrees of 25 March 2016, published on 5 April 2016; and secondly, the Minister of Finance, who is developing the terms and conditions of the guarantees. At this stage, I can only advise you to ask him about the details of the procurement you are talking about and the state of the processing of applications. This procurement was indeed carried out with the FPS Finances. As far as Elini's exact capacity is concerned, it is a matter of commercial secrecy. It is not likely to cover EUR 1.2 billion in the short or medium term, but is interesting in that it is available to cover damage that nuclear insurance pools are still reluctant to cover, i.e. what is missing in the damage to the environment to ensure its totality and the gap between the 10-year and 30-year requirements for personal injury. Our priority is to work with other European governments, with a view to achieving as soon as possible the ratification and entry into force of the amending protocol to the Paris Convention on Civil Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy. Given the interdependence and reinsurance between insurance pools, substantial progress should still be made when the amending protocol enters into force. This implies that the co-signatory Member States will make this agreement binding. You know that England, which is still European, and Italy have not yet ratified it. The result will be a new market on a European scale. The only item that is likely to cause problems in terms of coverage is, as I said, the difference between the ten-year and thirty-year requirements for personal injury, both because of the uncertainties attached to it - indeed, after thirty years it is more complicated to establish a causal link between the accident and the damage - than the cost of processing the file in the long term, because the costs of the file are usually borne by the insurances without being valued by the insured. As a result, the flow of files will be more abundant. This entry into force will not only improve the fate of victims at European level, but will also bring together the responsibilities of European operators towards greater equality and, finally, open up to insurers a market in the ideal format to foster new capabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u141	[[Without microphone]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u142	Mr President, Madam Minister, various sources point to the fact that at the turn of the replacement of certain elements of Doel 1 and 2, Electrabel will succeed in increasing the power of its nuclear power plants more or less discreetly. I'd like to know exactly what's going on. Can you say that there will be no increase in power following the ongoing work carried out as part of Doel 1 and 2's extension? What is the status of your information and any requests in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u143	Mr President, Mr Nollet, my answer is very brief. To date, Electrabel has not communicated any notification of an increase in its nuclear production capacity. I asked Electrabel to keep me informed of developments in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u144	Can I then ask you to inform us when you have an Electrabel answer, without me having to ask a question about it? You could go through the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u145	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u146	Mr President, Madam Minister, at our previous exchange on this issue on 14 June, you confirmed that Belgium did not have a regulatory framework which strictly sets out the strategy for immediate or delayed dismantling, or the final point of dismantling our old nuclear power plants. However, you pointed out that the dismantling scenario used in Belgium as a basis for the provision of decommissioning is, cumulatively, an immediate or almost immediate dismantling after the nuclear power plants have been shut down and a complete dismantling to allow the site to be used for other industrial purposes. I was already insisting at the time that you incorporate this into a legal framework. You agreed with me on this point, but you said that you were a little overworked in terms of the work to be done and could not commit yourself to having done it by next spring, as suggested by the chairman of our committee, who is also present today. You invited me to rest a question at a later stage so that you had time to reflect on a realistic timetable in this area. Your comments are contained in the transcript. Minister, when are you going to table the regulatory framework that will strictly set out the strategy for immediate dismantling and the final point of dismantling?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u147	Mr President, Mr Nollet, following your written question No 127 and oral question No 12218 to which you refer, it is appropriate to distinguish two elements relating to the decommissioning scenarios: the decommissioning scenario which will, after authorisation by the AFCN, be effectively implemented at the appropriate time by the nuclear operator, on the one hand, and the reference dismantling scenario underlying the calculation of nuclear provisions, on the other. The decommissioning scenario that will be effectively implemented at the appropriate time is that which, on the basis of an application submitted by the operator to the AFCN, will receive the necessary dismantling authorization prior to this activity, as specified in Article 17.2 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the dangers of ionizing radiation. In this respect, however, the regulatory framework has already evolved since, by the Royal Decree of 10 August 2015 – we have done so –, supplementing the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 on the safety requirements of nuclear installations with requirements for the decommissioning of nuclear installations, we have provided for an article 17/2 which was introduced and inserted into this Royal Decree, in relation precisely to the strategy of delayed dismantling. For your information, I quote: "If the operator opts for a deferred dismantling, he must justify this choice in the notification of a decision to cease operations. This justification includes an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the chosen strategy compared to those of immediate dismantling and an analysis of safety implications. In the case of a delayed dismantling, the operator shall draw up an adequate monitoring and maintenance programme prior to the cessation of the activities themselves, which shall, first, ensure the safety of the establishment during the period prior to the commencement of the dismantling and, second, shall not prejudice future dismantling." The article concludes by stating: "During the period prior to dismantling, the use of active safety systems, monitoring and human intervention to guarantee safety is as limited as reasonably possible and must be justified by the operator." Deferred dismantling may have certain advantages in the radiation protection of workers and in the management of nuclear waste, in certain specific situations, e.g. where there is a significant presence of short-lived radioisotopes in the facility or part of the facility to be dismantled. In such cases, the nuclear operator must therefore put in place an adequate monitoring and maintenance programme to ensure, at all times, the nuclear safety of its installations and to demonstrate that a delayed dismantling does not prejudice future dismantling. In other situations, it may also have disadvantages in relation to an immediate dismantling strategy, as you indicate. It will ultimately be up to the AFCN to decide. The option of delayed dismantling is therefore regulated and regulated. The choice of one or the other strategy is the one proposed by the operator. However, for this part on nuclear safety, I refer you to the Minister of the Interior. As regards the reference decommissioning scenario for nuclear power plants as the basis for calculating and controlling nuclear supplies, it is important that it is industrially and technically possible, that it complies with the legal obligations in Belgium with regard to nuclear safety and the management of nuclear waste, but above all that it is financially conservative. As I indicated in my reply to your written question No 127, the reference decommissioning scenario presented to the Commission by the operator is that of immediate and complete dismantling after the nuclear power plants have been put to a definitive standstill. This scenario is evaluated every three years by the Commission on the basis of ONDRAF's technical opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u148	To save time compared to the remaining questions, I will analyze the answer. That's why I'm not gonna make any more lines today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u149	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. You are the very wisdom!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u150	Minister, the WIPP, which is the deep geological storage facility for radioactive waste in New Mexico (United States), was expected to accommodate approximately 660 metres deep, 176,000 cubic metres of so-called transuranium waste, including americium and plutonium, from American nuclear activities. This storage centre experienced two notable events in February 2014: a fire in the northern area of the underground facility and, nine days later, a release of radioactive material in the southern area for about 15 hours. Twenty-two people showed contamination as a result of this relaxation. The photographs showed that some materials had melted. This proves the existence of a high temperature, of the order of the hundred degrees around the incriminated drum and up to a thousand degrees at its contact, much more than the models envisaged. The radioactivity released to the environment is also due to insufficient performance of the air filtration system. The system apparently had leaks in two registers which were probably aggravated by corrosion and which were not detected due to insufficient pre-maintenance checks of the ventilation system. It would also appear that external contamination leaks have been observed several times since 2014. My question is what lessons the ONDRAF has learned from these incidents. Do these elements not call into question the very principle of geological burial of nuclear waste? And if this is not yet the case, what changes do these elements entail, according to ONDRAF, in relation to its geological storage project in Belgium? The analysis of these events does not highlight the need in his view for at least: - requiring the waste package to be a robust containment barrier, which in particular means controlling its contents, particularly in terms of chemical reactivity? - provide for permanent monitoring arrangements to detect an anomaly early enough to act before a release of radioactive material occurs, including when the site is closed? - to take into account, in the safety demonstration, that drifts in the control of the operation are possible and to make provision for the design of the installation to control all the consequences? In particular, these provisions should aim to make recovery intervention possible, including when the site is closed, and to restore the initial safety and radiation protection conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u151	Mr Nollet, the two incidents at the WIPP in February 2014 are still the subject of several international analyses. From the information available, it appears that the feedback from these two events underlines the need to maintain a strong nuclear safety culture, paying particular attention to the criteria for waste acceptance, the prevention of fires in the basement and the ventilation of storage. As a result of these incidents, ONDRAF has not changed its geological storage studies as these are already the subject of studies related to the operational security of storage in Belgium. The criteria for acceptance of ONDRAF waste cover not only the radiological aspects but also the robustness of the packaged waste and its chemical compatibility with the storage environment. The waste acceptance system of ONDRAF ensures, in particular, through the granting of approvals under the Royal Decree of 22 November 2002 and the inspections carried out by waste producers and warehouses operated by its subsidiary company Belgoprocess, that the waste complies with the acceptance criteria. AFCN will also play a central role as a guarantor of nuclear safety during the operation of a future storage site in Belgium. The Law of 3 June 2014 transposing the Directive 2011/70 EURATOM on radioactive waste and spent fuel provides that national policies on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel considered as waste shall contain arrangements for reversibility, recovery and monitoring for a period to be determined as an element of design and operation of each storage facility. ONDRAF evaluates various possibilities for reversibility, recovery and monitoring in collaboration with other European bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u152	Mr President, as with the other questions, given the agenda and since I still hope to be able to ask one or the other question today, I am not going to be long. Minister, do you know how much it costs to repair the facility with respect to the barrel that burned in the WIPP? Two billion dollars! You imagine that there are several thousand drums that will have to be installed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u153	I understand the question. We have never been opposed in terms of safety. I'm answering for my ONDRAF skills. Security is AFCN, Jan Jambon's jurisdiction. But it's not because it's someone else that we don't care about the greatest safety together with the government. Mr. President, I have to join my office at 1:30 p.m. Ms. Caprasse has been waiting from the beginning to ask her question. If colleagues agree, I can answer his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u154	Mr President, I agree, but we should have a next meeting to exhaust the issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u155	Questions Nos 13228, 13266, 13626 and 13911 by Mr Nollet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u156	With regard to the circular economy, in your answer to my parliamentary question 12,099, you announced that the final report of the study to identify legislative, regulatory and legal barriers to the circular economy was expected in mid-July. More than two months have elapsed since the submission of this report. I would like to be able to read about it or at least its conclusions and recommendations. What are the European, regional or federal barriers to the deployment of the circular economy? What are those for which specific action at the federal level can be taken? Where is the report accessible or available? In your reply, you also referred to different solutions ranging from the traceability of materials to the possibility of extending product guarantees through VAT. I would now like to know what are the points made in the report. Finally, following this report, you must draw up a roadmap with your colleague Peeters. What are you doing here? What are the steps already taken? Which ones still need to be, and according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u157	The final report of the study on regulatory and legal barriers to a circular economy in Belgium was approved at the end of July. He's been able to identify a series of brakes. For the vast majority of them, solutions should be sought at European and/or regional level; this is the distribution of competences in Belgium. The removal of other barriers could in some cases be managed at the federal level. These barriers were addressed in the study through a four-point thematic classification: waste versus product status, longer product life, liability and insurance in the context of the sharing economy, and management of federal government assets. The study also excluded some of the possible federal interventions previously considered. The will was not to depart, but the fact is that it is not within our competence. At this stage, my firm and my administration, as well as their colleagues from my colleague Kris Peeters, will analyse the results of the study in detail and we will integrate them as best we can. The answer I was giving you dates because I have a meeting tomorrow with the Peeters firm and I'm asking the question as to whether this is the scheduled meeting. We analyzed the results of the study in detail, and best integrated them into a future roadmap. My colleague Kris Peeters and I have said, in this reply drafted at the time of your question of 25 August, that we will communicate in the course of October - we are here - and that we will make available the accompanying studies, including the study on legal obstacles. We are now completing the CFDD and CEC consultations on our draft roadmap. The comments provided will be incorporated, as far as possible, into the final version. The result will be presented in October. I'll question you, and we'll give you the answer before you leave. There will only be proposals for measures falling within my competence and those of my colleague Kris Peeters. We will then begin further discussions with other government partners that may be involved in circular economy issues. We will also inform them of the brakes that can be lifted at their respective levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u158	Minister, this is an important subject. I think it is for you too, and I hope that we will make a difference between this subject and the other "energy" subjects for which things are always a little complicated between us. Indeed, there is an issue here in the medium and long term, which, obviously, and according to your proposals, has not escaped you. I hear you are preparing your roadmap with Minister Peeters, and that makes sense. Things are still going on; it is in October, I agree. On the other hand, the report is finished, since you are already using it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u159	That is precisely what we are asking for, because if it is finished, what I believe, and if the road map has been drawn from it, which I also believe, then I would like to know if it will be presented tomorrow. It is still important that you have a precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u160	Could we receive the report? I fully understand that we are not yet receiving the roadmap, if it is communicated tomorrow or in the coming days. But the report has already been completed. If we could get it, it would move things forward. I was also aware of the proposals you made to the CFDD, but I was waiting for you to have your own 23 proposals to intervene on the content, of course. On the other hand, the report is written and final. He says what we have to reject. At least, in my remarks, I do not have to criticise things which in fact have already been rejected in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u161	We'll send it to you this afternoon with the questions you've transformed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u162	It's the simplest, it seems to me. Thank you very much. I can't turn off my microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u163	No one can turn it off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u164	I do not know, but at least I will give the floor to Mrs Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u165	Mr President, Madam Minister, a Royal Order of 21 July 2016 setting the minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels to be incorporated into the annual volume of gasoline for consumption requires, as of 1 January 2017, 8.5% bioethanol in all petrols, compared to 4% currently. This regulatory change is a consequence of a European obligation requiring more renewable energy sources in the transport sector from 2020 onwards. Bioethanol is an agrofuel produced from cereals (wheat, maize, etc.) or sugar beet, and is intended for petrol engines. In concrete terms, this means that Super 95 gasoline will be replaced by E10, which will contain twice as much bioethanol. This will result in a small additional cost to the pump, but this does not remove the environmental rationale for this measure, which can only be accepted, even if indirect effects on biomass are found. Without prejudging the assessment of this new percentage of bioethanol in gasoline, which will be subject to a procedure laid down in the Royal Decree referred to above, the questions currently raised are of a different order. As far as the compatibility of the E10 with certain vehicles is concerned, according to the information available to me at the moment, the E10 can be used for most vehicles (cars and motorcycles) built after 2000, which represents about 60% of the fleet. Vehicles registered before 2000 are at serious risk of incompatibility. The FEBIAC, which will launch an information campaign this fall, believes that, in most cases, it would be for the owners of these vehicles to switch to the Super 98, which is more expensive at the pump and which does not guarantee a real gain in fuel consumption. In other more minority cases, owners should consult their dealership. The Belgian Petroleum Federation also questions the origin of bioethanol, despite the fact that in Belgium we have three plants that are efficient in the production of this agrofuel. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if you have more precise information on the compatibility of E10 gasoline with engines of vehicles registered before 2000? At this stage, will the production of bioethanol to cover the car fleet in Belgium be mainly carried out by our companies or will we have to rely on more imports?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u166	Mr President, Madam Member, according to the information provided by the SPF Economy, nine in ten vehicles are generally suitable for 95 E10 gasoline. Yesterday the SPF Economy launched an information campaign to inform consumers about the various aspects related to the placing on the market of petrol 95 E10, including aspects related to vehicle compatibility. The biofuel market in Belgium has been open since the cessation of support schemes in May 2014. Nevertheless, whether for batches of bioethanol from Belgian producers or from abroad, strict controls on sustainability and origin are carried out in compliance with European directives. On the other hand, if the volumes of bioethanol consumed in Belgium were to come from Belgian plants, they would be sufficient to cover the whole consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic499x.u167	Minister, thank you for your answers. This morning, on the radio, it was pointed out that the price in France was lower than in Belgium. Perhaps it would be a reflection to allow users to benefit from certain more favourable prices as this is an important environmental approach.
