ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u1	Minister, on 6 October last, the heads of the Royal Mint of Belgium announced to the trade unions that the institution will no longer strike the currency. From now on, a public procurement will have to be launched. This decision is, in my view, incomprehensible in several ways. To begin with, it led to job losses. Twenty-five people should be affected. Then, with the relocation of the currency strike, it is a flagship of Belgium that disappears, although it has been shown that the Royal Mint could be profitable. Minister, can you tell us why the government made such a decision? Have you been able to estimate the cost of privatizing the currency strike? How is this solution preferable to the current situation? Do you have any solutions for people who will lose their jobs as a result of this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u2	Minister, the FPS Finance recently confirmed that the Royal Mint of Belgium, which has been hitting our currency since 1832, will no longer carry out this activity as of January 1, 2018. The Mint will now have to launch tenders to obtain euro coins with the Belgian seal. The 25 people working in the workshop carrying out this mission will be transferred to different departments of the SPF, while the other services - design, marketing, etc. - will remain active. According to the trade union organisations, it would appear that this cessation of activity is essentially the result of an overabundance of coins from other euro area Member States, which are subject to production quotas. Minister, I am concerned about this situation because a large institution in our country is losing historic and symbolic activity. So I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the reasons why the government made this decision? Could you give us some insight into the reasons behind the choice? What is the impact of this decision on public finances? Is the stamping of the collector's coins also destined to disappear? Has a decision been made on this part of the file? Finally, could you shed some light on the situation of staff? Clearly, where will it be affected and on what basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u3	Mr President, the failure of the Royal Mint of Belgium to strike coins does not mean a privatisation of this institution, but rather a subcontracting of the manufacture of coins issued by the King and denominated in euro. The reasons for this decision are the sharp decrease in the volume of strikes in recent years - due to the European Commission's desire to use existing stocks - the development of electronic means of payment and the rounding of cents. The BNB also outsources the production of bank notes, as you probably know. In addition, this will also make it possible to rationalise the administrative organisation, to have better management and to reduce the costs of the Royal Mint of Belgium and the Monetary Fund. The lease of the Boulevard Pacheco 32 building ends in 2021, and the end of the environmental permit is scheduled for early 2022. These are additional elements to the reasons already mentioned. It should be noted that other divisions of the Royal Belgian Mint, such as laboratory, design and marketing, will continue their activities. Finally, staff affected by this reorganization will be reassigned to the Finance FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u4	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u5	So am I.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u6	Questions Nos 13807 and 14572 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière are transformed into written questions. Question No 14560 by Mr David Clarinval is deleted. Questions Nos 14906, 14907 and 14925 by Mrs Griet Smaers are transformed into written questions. Question No 14971 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions Nos 14972 and 15192 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 14977 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 14978 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 14999 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 15004 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 15029 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 15030 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 15041 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Mechelen's 15117 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u7	Mr Vanvelthoven is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u8	Minister, in his ruling on una-by law, the Constitutional Court refers to the ruling of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in the Zolotoukhin case. According to the latter judgment, the principle of nona in idem prohibits the prosecution or prosecution of a person for a second offence, in so far as it is based on identical facts or facts which are essentially the same. The case law of the ECHR has been updated very recently. In its judgment in A and B v Norway of 15 November 2016, the Grand Chamber states that the Zolotoukhin judgment does not rule on the situation in which both procedures are previously combined and integrated and form a coherent whole. In this hypothesis, therefore, the Grand Chamber considers a double procedure possible. However, the intended purpose and the means used must be complementary, linked over time and the consequences for the taxable person are proportionate and foreseeable. This judgment of the Grand Chamber of the ECHR does not clearly change the law of 20 September 2012 establishing the una-via principle in the prosecution of infringements of tax law and increasing the tax penalty fines. Moreover, the ECHR offers only a minimum level of protection. A Member State can therefore always offer greater protection to its citizens. I believe that it is a good thing to give taxpayers a certain legal certainty and to ensure an efficient fight against tax fraud. I therefore ask you to clarify your position here. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Does the judgment in A and B against Norway affect Belgian tax legislation? Are there any plans after this judgment to change the law or will it remain as it is today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u9	Ms Wouters, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 15 November 2016 is currently being examined by the Finance Administration in the light of an amendment to the Law of 20 September 2012 establishing the "Funa' principle. The result of that investigation will be presented to the Justice Finance Task Force, a multidisciplinary working group with representatives from my policy cell, from my colleague in the Justice Department and from the respective administrations. Depending on the outcome of the study and further consultations, the judgment of 15 November will be taken into account in the final draft text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u10	Minister, we don't know much anymore. I'm assuming the task force is going to look into that thoroughly. I will come back to this to see what the outcome of the task force is. It is annoying for people who do not now have legal certainty. We're assuming that that law will remain as it is for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u11	Mr Vanvelthoven is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u12	Minister, in 2013 I pointed out here in committee that the fairness tax is too complex and very easy to circumvent. Later on, the Constitutional Court did not at all unexpectedly refer some questions to the European Court of Justice on the compatibility of the fairness tax with the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. In my view, the measure should never have been approved. From the outset, the tax was not only an economic but also a legal error. It is also not explained that the Belgian subsidiary of a multinational has to pay a fairness tax when the foreign company pays a dividend. If someone is looking for a measure to deter foreign investors, he or she has shot the main bird with that measure. On 17 November 2016, the media reported that the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice considers the fairness tax to be contrary to the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. The Constitutional Court will now continue to examine the constitutionality of the fee. If the court annuls the tax, Belgium shall pay an interest of 7% on recovered taxes. Consequently, the budgetary consequences may be immense. First of all, Minister, you recently indicated that you would map the budgetary implications and submit the investigation to the government. Has that happened yet? Will you also submit the evaluation to Parliament? To what extent are you on schedule? How far along are you? Do you already have an idea of the estimated budgetary damage if the taxes unduly collected are recovered? Secondly, will you already take steps to prepare yourself for a potentially unfavourable judgment of the Constitutional Court? Which steps will you take, in particular? Will you modify the fee by recasting the conditions proposed by a number of members of other parties? Will you extend the terms or is it the intention to abolish the fairness tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u13	In the end, the final ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union will have to be awaited. The Court is not bound by the judgment of the Advocate General. In addition, the Constitutional Court should then also rule on the substance of the dispute where, in addition to the existence of European law, pleas were raised as to the infringement of the principles of legality and equality. In this respect, it is premature at the moment to comment on any adjustments. We are ready to properly assess the budgetary implications to which you referred. However, it will take some time to break things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Advocate General is usually followed in his opinion, so we can predict where we stand. At the same time, I am glad that you are already mapping out the budgetary implications. I would therefore be very grateful if you would also explain the ticket in the Finance Committee, so that the members of the committee are informed and further measures can be taken on fairness tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u15	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the FPS Finance has made the decision to unilaterally impose the versatility of their duties on officers. It's a very bad measure. In concrete terms, from 1 January 2017, agents will be asked to be versatile in matters relating to personal tax, corporate tax or VAT. This decision will require FPS Finance officers to deal in their various aspects with files that are sometimes very different in nature. And if that was not enough, the FPS already requires a 20% reduction in the number of days allocated for file control. In addition to demotivation, which is already very large among FPS Finance officers, this versatility raises fears that they will no longer be able to perform their duties under acceptable conditions. This will inevitably have an impact on the performance of tax supplements recruited after controls. At this point, it is my responsibility that the management of the SPF declares itself irresponsible of this situation and refers to the P&O SPF, which itself redirects to another department. As you will have understood, each of you is responsible for this decision. Minister, has this decision to impose versatility on agents been made by the FPS Finances? Have you been informed of this? Has there been any consultation with officials' representatives? Do you not fear that this measure will prove ineffective if it is accompanied by a reduction in the time devoted to the control of the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u16	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, first of all, I would like to remind you that the General Tax Administration completed its internal reorganization in July of this year with a view to implementing a target group approach for taxpayers. Each of the three administrations, i.e. the private administration, the SME administration and the Large Enterprises (GE) administration, aims in particular to develop a service delivery and a control approach that meets the needs and specificities of its own target group. It is in this context that the implementation of multidisciplinary skills within the teams as well as in the head of the employees of the SME and GE administrations will, on the one hand, achieve greater efficiency and, on the other hand, increase the level of service delivery vis-à-vis the different groups of taxpayers. It is therefore a means and not an objective in itself. It is important to stress this. This implementation does not preclude the maintenance of more sophisticated knowledge and skills in one or the other area of taxation within the various centres and services as well as in the head of staff. At the same time, not all control actions will be multidisciplinary and the most complex controls will be carried out by collaborators with the level of expertise necessary to carry out the control in the subject(s) concerned. As part of the evolution of a material-based structure towards a target group structure, constant attention will be paid, within the General Administration of Taxation, and more specifically with the GE and SME pillars, such as the ISI General Administration and the Political Expertise and Support Management Service, to the employment and training of specialized collaborators. This is an important objective set out in the policy note for 2017. At the training level, in order to ensure that each employee is accompanied in their development, an extensive offer of specific technical training has been foreseen, both for employees of management teams and control teams. The training route for supervisors is similar to that for new trainees. As far as control capacity is concerned, no reduction of 20% is imposed. The control capacity depends on the number of staff assigned to the control and the number of days available for the control activities. A number of control models are also being revised to incorporate the multidisciplinary aspects of the new target group approach, thus ensuring a better examination of the taxpayer's tax situation when several tax matters are affected by the control. When selecting the files to be checked, account shall be taken of the specific characteristics and properties of each tax. Finally, as part of the social dialogue with the organisations representing the employees of the FPS Finances, a meeting will be organised in early 2017 to keep them informed of the arrangements put in place in-house, as was the case in the last major projects that have affected the staff of my department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u17	Minister, I take note of your answer. I would like to point out that, while the versatility of services and the versatility of controls is something that can indeed be justified and that can be the guarantee of greater efficiency, the versatility of agents itself implies that they emerge from the specialization to which they were accustomed and which was, in essence, a guarantee of efficiency in control. I'd like to make sure there's no ambiguity between us. I understand that the agents would be offered the opportunity to have training. But, at the same time, we must be careful because someone who, for twenty years, has made corporate tax cannot, tomorrow, improvise himself as controller or VAT specialist. These are different techniques. I am not even talking about the legislation, but about the approach to the field, the approach to the files. In any case, I hope that what will be privileged will be more the versatility of the controls, not the versatility of the controllers. So I take note of what you're telling me. I'll keep making it a point of attention. This is true of the motivation of the tax officers whose task is known to be not always easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u18	Questions Nos 15220 by Mrs Van Cauter and 15235 by Mrs Pas are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u19	Minister, according to the regulations in force, leases entered into in our country must be entered within two months of their signature. This is an obligation for donors and failure to comply with it can have serious consequences since the tenant can leave a dwelling without notice, without compensation, overnight. In the Brussels Region, however, the press has experienced difficulties, where the FPS Finance services would be understaffed, which would result in significant delays in the registration of files. In this sense, many would be the owners who fear to suffer the negative consequences of this situation. When asked about this issue, a spokesman for the FPS Finances invited citizens to use the MyRent app, and I quote, "the deadlines are shorter. We only talk about three days for recording." Of course, this solution is certainly very useful, but, you will agree, for those less accustomed to the use of new technologies, the problem remains. Can you confirm the problem that is exposed to you? If so, what exactly are the causes of these registration difficulties? What is the average rate of delays in the processing of current records? Can you detail your response by region? Finally, what solutions have been chosen to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u20	Mr. Calomne, I can confirm that major internal reorganizations in 2015 resulted in a decrease in the number of staff. In addition, priority should be given to the processing of authentic documents following the launch of STIPAD in May 2015. Despite successful management measures, including student engagement in the summer of 2015, and further automation, it has not been possible to address the backlog of leases. Between 1 January and 1 November 2016, 269,000 leases were submitted for registration throughout the country, either in paper or electronically via MyRent and MyRent Pro. These include 49 000 leases in the Brussels-Capital Region, 69 000 leases in the Walloon Region and 150 000 leases in the Flemish Region. In order to be able to give proof of registration to the citizen, lease agreements must be included in the "baux" database. For encoding, there is currently a delay of 117 000 leases, including 35 000 leases in the Brussels-Capital Region, 4,500 leases in the Walloon Region and 78 000 leases in the Flemish Region. The following solutions were chosen: a strict follow-up of the figures concerning the treatment of leases via dashboards at different hierarchical levels. The Administration carried out a comparative analysis of the three most important offices competent for the registration of leases. As a result of this comparative analysis, the working methods used were streamlined and standardized. An action list has been defined. It is currently being implemented in order to increase the efficiency, i.e. the maximum occupancy of the window, simultaneous registration and encoding of leases. In 2017, the administration will ensure that automation continues. This will avoid the creation of stocks. The MyRent app and its Web Service continue to be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u21	Minister, thank you for that answer. Noting that there were many problems, I am pleased that solutions are being taken to resolve them in an optimal manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-06-54-commissie-ic547x.u22	Interpellation No. Mrs Gerkens' 191 was postponed until January. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 15264 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 15272 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 15283 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van de Velde's report was withdrawn. Questions Nos 15295, 15296 and 15297 by Mr Vanvelthoven were converted into written questions. That concludes the questions and our meeting. We will see each other tomorrow at 10 a.m. for the discussion of the budget.
