ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State, the press has recently revealed your specific intentions in terms of federal science policy. The fears we have had since the conclusion of the government agreement are confirmed. From now on, there is no longer a shadow of doubt. In your opinion, scientific policy needs to be strangled in order to be better communitized. After the abolition of BELSPO and the announced end of a remarkable space policy in terms of efficiency and worldwide recognition, your firm is now planning the communitarization of the cultural heritage of all Belgians. Indeed, you intend to integrate scientific institutions and their collections into public limited liability companies with federal entities. This choice stems from both a disregard for the federal state and the public administration that you are supposed to embody and a resignation of your political responsibilities. Just as for your famous Space Agency, you propose a heavy, untransparent and uncontrollable management of the public thing. One might wonder for what purpose. Your expressed willingness to "rationalize" the costs by grouping certain services is laughable. Indeed, this was exactly the role of BELSPO that you decided to delete. Now, doubt is no longer allowed. Given that new acquisitions will not enter the national heritage and that some institutions have been put in the red with savings measures imposed on them by this government, one can only deduce that in whole or in part, their federal future is now written in dotted form. In addition to this, your stated will to rid yourself – I quote, Madam Minister – of "certain objects" – is all the respect you have for art and works of art – "which would not be useful to them or would not have their place in the collections". Besides, you're the one who decides! All this to the detriment of the principle of inalienability that must govern all public museums. By doing so, you are jeopardizing future donations by creating a breach of donor confidence. On the other hand, you are prejudging the artistic interest of the pieces which might nevertheless prove to be in the medium or long term. About two years ago, you came to head of a department that represented everything your party could not support: a Belgian scientific culture and policy that goes beyond the community divides and many museums in the Brussels Region that you do not recognize within your party. So you decided to put an end to it. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the information in the press about your intentions towards federal scientific institutions? Moreover, it is not only in the press: the secret is not well kept since you can consult the note here on the table if you do not believe it. How do you justify the integration of federated entities into the management of a federal jurisdiction? What about the transformation of museums into public limited companies? What about maintaining collections at the federal level? Why do you choose a management model that reduces democratic control over the State's cultural heritage? Do you consider that culture still has a place at the federal level? How do you view your role in this regard? Minister, I am astonished and amazed. If one appoints curators, artistic directors, if competent people are appointed to know what a museum needs, to know what place and dimension to give to each period of our art, it is not for a minister, from the top of his seat, to decide that modern art deserves 2,000 m2, that contemporary art does not deserve it or that a museum can close its doors, as you had envisaged for the Museum Fin-de-Siècle. I think you're wrong, minister. Your role is to give these remarkable institutions the means to survive and not to strangle or dismantle them as you do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond here. This allows me to refute the various intentions and interpretations which have been imputed to me and which have been propagated by several media and also to define my policy, not for the first time, on the basis of the government agreement. It is true that an in-depth reorganization of federal science policy is in preparation. This is based on the government agreement reached by four parties. This reorganization aims to strengthen, through empowerment, federal scientific institutions and the creation of the Interfederal Space Agency of Belgium. As far as the Space Agency is concerned, negotiations within the government are already at a very advanced stage. Discussions on the reforms of the ESF are thus fully under way. In the meantime, we don't stay with each other. Pending the reforms, I have already taken various measures to strengthen the ESF. In concrete terms, substantial additional resources of more than EUR 11 million, EUR 400 000 and EUR 150 000 respectively have been released for infrastructure, equipment, security, services to the public and promotion. For next year too, several proposals for additional resources have already been submitted. I would also like to remind you of the Council of Ministers' decision of 27 May. This decree contains the final decisions enabling the necessary renovations of the various museum-based ESFs to begin. They concern both the urgently needed renovation of roofs and other structural works. The amount of this envelope amounts to no less than EUR 145 million from federal funds, while the times are particularly difficult and after many years of neglect. It still seems to me that these are actions which correspond more to the care and healing treatment of an attentive parent than the opposite. In the case of the Federated States, competence, scientific research and culture were, in principle, attributed by the legislature to the states, while it still provides for well-defined exceptions to the federal state. Federal science policy is therefore not an island. It is from this point of view that I wish to involve the federated entities in order to strengthen cooperation between federal and federated competences. The fact that the federal level requires a contribution from the federated entities does not affect federal jurisdiction in this area. On the contrary, this creates continuity between federal and federated competencies in both space and art collections. Your thesis that democratic control over the state's heritage will be reduced in no way corresponds to reality. The main criterion advanced in the restructuring of the FSEs is precisely that of the unity and inalienability of the collections. It is even explicitly stated that collections remain the property of the federal authority and that their management is entrusted to the FSEs. The evaluation of collections is a common modern practice in Belgian and foreign museums. In this context, I advise you to read Op de muséeale weegschaal: collectiewaardering in zes stappen - Assessing Museum Collections. Collection evaluation in six steps, a guide for the evaluation of collections published by the Dutch Institute of Cultural Heritage. Within the FSEs, such an assessment will be carried out by experts and will have to meet high scientific standards. The risks you have mentioned will thus be very limited. In practice, our museums have worked nearly two hundred years in the development of their collections. Over the course of history, pieces were acquired from which it became clear later that they did not really have a place in the collections. In some cases, it is even false. The question of whether it is appropriate for the federal authority to continue to invest in the storage of items that will never be exhibited in federal museums is therefore more than legitimate in the context of modern museology, particularly in relation to the technique of museum evaluation. This exercise also includes inventory aspects and targeted collection routes. In other words, to reduce this scientific procedure to the sole aspect of the removal of collections is to make violence to the truth. Similarly, the empowerment of institutions will in no way reduce democratic control over the management of collections that remain federal, or the policy of institutions that remain subject to federal control. The implementing law will provide a clearly defined binding framework within which FSEs can operate. The objectives and policy of the FSEs will be monitored through multi-year management agreements and, among other things, by government commissioners. While controls on the allocation of public funds (dotations) and on the management of public goods (collections) remain as strict as ever, they will be more flexible. The Court of Auditors may also carry out an in-depth audit of the accounts of these institutions. The goal remains to improve the functioning of these FSEs. I don't want to stop federal science policy. I want to move it forward. We can discuss at length the place that is reserved for culture at the federal level. As Secretary of State, I am obliged to comply with the relevant legal provisions. It may therefore suffice to refer to those provisions. Cultural competence is primarily a Community competence. In this respect, the position of the federal authority is complementary in two clearly defined areas: federal scientific and cultural institutions and non-Community cultural matters in the Brussels-Capital Region which go beyond the regional interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u3	Mr. Chairman, I have not yet understood how the reform that is not really announced here and that seems far from the minister's memo will improve the situation of our museums. Far from it! As far as the modernisation of buildings is concerned, I have asked Mr Jambon various questions and I shall rest on them because there is a difference between the figures given here and the figures in Beliris. We know that the federal government is always very generous in the renovation of buildings when it is Beliris who takes over them and not the federal budget. It has been systematic for years and we still live it with the conservatory or in other cases. We will, of course, live it as usual, Madam Minister, with the N-VA. I also understand that the government has made good progress on this note. I am probably calling on the MR not to abandon his cultural policy because, despite what the Minister has said, I do not think that this issue is moving towards improving our museums, their visibility or the enrichment of collections by acquiring additional pieces. I also do not know where these rooms will be, since these museums will have acquired them under the status of a public limited company. Will they actually make up their heritage or not? I do not think that this will still allow our museums to earn remarkable points as it is today. As the minister is always used to saying that everyone is a bad manager except for this federal government, which weighs the government's debt, I recall the figures from federal museums that show that, despite the dark cuts that this government has begun in our museums, these museums are resisting and the evidence is that their own revenues are constantly increasing. We have called into question the Museum Fin-de-Siècle, also the temporary exhibitions organized by these museums, but we see that thanks to this, it is not only the influence of our museums, our collections, Brussels and Belgium that are taking place, but, moreover, they work so well, Madam Minister, while you despise them, that their own revenues do not stop increasing and allow for the moment to compensate for the dark cuts you make in these scientific and cultural institutions that you do not recognize. I have heard enough of you in the Committee on the Economy questioning the federal culture. Mr. Chair, I am tabling a motion calling on the government to abandon its policy of dismembering federal science policy, to ensure the federal character of collections held in our federal museums, to pursue an ambitious policy for the development of these federal art collections, to preserve the means of personnel and investment of federal scientific institutions, to maintain the management of international space policy, which is exclusively federal jurisdiction, which is flexible and effective and supported by the sector, to preserve the BELSPO PPS and its mandated centralization missions. Mr. Chairman, I move this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u4	It remains very unclear to me what exactly will happen. I read in the press that there is a vision and that there are notes on this. A number of things would be autonomously structured. Now it is quite possible that giving autonomy in itself is not a problem, but I wonder what the finality is. Autonomous work is actually only an instrument for achieving a certain objective. I've been trying to find out. Perhaps it is because I do not understand the translation correctly or because I do not understand French correctly, which has not made it clearer to me. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to see a number of concrete scenarios which translate the principles of your policy. For example, about the collections you say they will be held in honor, but at the same time you say that you will probably alienate some in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u5	Mrs De Coninck, I have made it clear here that an inventory and collection evaluation has now been made. That's a modern, common practice. Indeed, there are brochures and texts about this, which are now on the museum scale. I don't think drawing up an inventory of everything we have is a bad idea. That's what people do at home. In consultation with other museums we can then see which way we want to go. That's the process the museums make themselves. The inventory process is ongoing. It is not for me to decide what the museums should or should not retain. After the inventory, the museums can decide which collections they want to focus on. The stealing is part of both the inventory and the collection. That puts accents in a museum. There are several collections and they have to decide which direction they want to go. At present, there is plenty of inventory according to the modern technology of museumology. I think there is nothing wrong with that, quite the contrary. We have not even said whether anything will be taken, not at all. That question has not yet been raised at all. The current question is simply that what is present would be listed. There are thousands of pieces in the cellars, and they are all being inventoried. I believe that there is nothing wrong with that, but in any case, I think that we will always disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it is easy to draw up an inventory and then come to the conclusion that the cellars are too full, simply because we do not want to invest in new places or in necessary extension work. It will be easy to make an inventory of the collections of the 20th and 21st century to decide, then, that the whole will be gathered in 2,000 m2, which will not be possible, given the large number of beautiful pieces. From then on, what will be the decision that will be made? It will be decided not to align the collections, but to deposit them elsewhere. It is obvious that this is not clear. What appears in your note does not correspond to what you have just stated. As this government has become accustomed to, under the pretext of modernization, the federal state is being undermined, and what remains of the federal state is being dismantled, especially in terms of its culture and scientific policy. You know where you're going. I don't blame you because it's part of your program. I blame this government and the MR for letting you do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u8	Mr President, the Secretary of State no longer has the right to intervene, since Parliament has the final say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u9	I would like to respond to your reply, Madam Secretary of State. I find it strange that inventory didn't happen long ago. Normally one has to have some insight into what one has in the house. That's one thing. Secondly, if the inventory is complete when I hear it like that, it will take a while, then I think a strategic plan needs to be drawn up. You're acting like it's up to the employees to decide. I'm not okay with that. I believe that politics should set the limits. I believe that experts, administrations, directors and other stakeholders can make proposals and submit different scenarios, but that the final decision must be taken by politics. If we know how much resources are available and how many square metres can be optimally controlled, then we have to look at the size of the collection and see how it can be exhibited. One can opt for a permanent collection and then one may have to do a lot of things away. Or one can opt for a rotating system. It is mainly the lack of clarity that gives rise to the suspicion that this is actually intended to be destroyed, and that is not good, even if one does not want to; what I do not know, by the way. In any case, you need to get the employees to continue in a positive scenario. That is why it is rather important that the finality and objectives are quickly clarified. It may well be that you are releasing resources and making more resources available to invest, so much better, but let us then agree on a framework within which we work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-28-54-commissie-ic456x.u10	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Karine Lalieux and the response of the Secretary of State for Poverty Reduction, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, asks the government 1. to abandon its policy of dismembering federal science policy; 2. ensure the federal character of collections held in federal museums; 3. to pursue an ambitious policy for the development of these federal art collections; 4. preserve the means of operation, personnel and investment of federal scientific institutions; 5. Maintain international space policy management, which is exclusively federal responsibility, and which is flexible and efficient and supported by the sector; 6. to preserve the BELSPO PPS and the centralization tasks entrusted to it." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karine Lalieux and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, asks the government 1. stop its policy of dismantling the Federal Science Policy; 2. ensure the federal character of the collections in the federal museums; 3. pursue an ambitious policy for the valorisation of these federal art collections; 4. not to touch the human, operational and investment resources of the federal scientific institutions; 5. to safeguard flexible, efficient and sector-supported management of international space policy, an exclusive federal competence; 6. maintain the POD BELSPO and the tasks entrusted to BELSPO in the field of centralisation." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Gantois. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
